another aspect of the pivot involves the move away from the middle east . unlike east asia , the middle east remains a region in turmoil ; a complexity that defies an analytical consensus is widely available . but no amount of fancy footwork , whether pivoting or pirouetting may be able to lessen that region ’s significance . the middle east will remain the central pillar of the world ’s energy for the decade to come . do the region ’s crises stem from its lack of a peace agreement with israel ?
china shares russia with concerns about america ’s conventional and missile-defense superiority , and is stepping up and modernizing its estimated 240-weapon stockpile . with china taking this course , india – outside the npt , but , with its 100 weapons of its own – feels the need to add to its own arsenal . and pakistan then becomes an even more determined ally to try to stay ahead of india . with russia and the us holding the 18,000 of the world ’s current stockpile of 19,000 nuclear weapons , it proving inconceivable that any more nuclear-armed states could reduce their own ( far smaller ) arsenals , as long as the big ones make further drastic cuts to theirs . this logic of deterrence produces a snowball effect .
two centuries later , that is no longer the case in the late nineteenth century : at the end of the twentieth century , the median standard of living in britain and other countries to which the industrial revolution had spread – for the first time in recorded history – light-years above any neo-malthusian subsistence benchmark . now , how , exactly , did those accomplishments emerge ? for what were the small differences that turned out to matter ? early industrial-era economic accomplishments arose despite a loss of a substantial share of national income to encourage a corrupt , decadent , and profligate aristocracy . they occurred despite a tripling of the population , putting the extraordinary malthusian constraint on the economy of underlying natural-resource base , and , despite mobilization of an unprecedented share of national income for almost a century of intensive war against france , a power with more than a three times britain ’s ’s ’s population .
may , who is as tight-lipped as cameron was the eu ’s open ( to empty ) book , has already created the institutional skeleton for a political strategy . her government has formed the eu department of international commerce to be responsible for drafting the trade arrangements with the eu and the rest of the world ( the european commission previously handled such arrangements ) . another new department , the so-called brexit ministry , will manage political , judicial , and constitutional negotiations – the next steps . the referendum , ’s outcome , has had little impact on the broader global landscape , and the impact on eu institutions is just another crisis – one that london-centric british newspapers seem to imagine . may has thus found itself in no hurry to act ; nor is german chancellor angela merkel ( though facing reelection next year , the increasingly desperate french president françois hollande says . )
venezuela has tried to fund itself with the help of the people ’s development bank , which does not impose the kind of conditionality that imf bashers dislike . the chinese have not demanded that venezuela do anything to increase the likelihood that it regains creditworthiness . simply doing so , they are asking for more oil as the collateral . instead , the cdb lends on secret terms , for uses that are unabashed and corrupt , and with the built-in privileges for chinese firms in areas like telecoms ( huawei ) , coffee shops ( haier ) , automobiles ( chery ) , and oil drilling ( ictv ) . whatever the imf ’s faults , the cdb is a disgrace .
with lugar ’s defeat and the simultaneous exit of last republican moderates like senator olympia snowe of maine ready to place national interests ahead of partisanship , the senate is unlikely to produce the 60 votes needed to ratify further us-russia arms-control treaties , should be negotiated . moreover , the comprehensive nuclear-test ban treaty ( banning ) , which would replace a fragile international moratorium , can not come into force without america ’s senate ratification . it featured two clips of obama ’s comment , “ i ’ve worked with republican senator dick lugar ” to pass a law , ” and “ what i had been achieved from senator dick lugar ” after us president donald trump . still , one tv advertisement said it all about the tea party-driven campaign-driven campaign-finance cynicism . the context was not explained , but what obama said in full was this : “ i ’ve worked with republican senator dick lugar ” to pass legislation that will secure and destroy some of the world ’s deadliest , unguarded , ” ” ” and , “ what i had accomplished to senator dick lugar , a republican , to help lock up loose nuclear weapons .
by calling their criminal izmena rodine – a betrayal of the motherland – they have married this high moral language to minor transgressions , such as leaving the country illegally . secure states are inclined to forget the need for treason . insecure states grow quicker to sense patterns of betrayal . perhaps it is imprisoned for assisting the terrorists , but its treachery generates little resentment . the soviets , with their own fragile legitimacy , have always feared betrayal .
but there is no comparable protest against the use of antipsychotic drugs that has similarly compelled on people , and even used to torture prisoners . like antipsychotic drugs , antidepressant drugs , and tranquilizers – ect seems to have an immediate organic effect . but , while ect rarely , if ever causing clear clinical evidence of brain damage and was shown to have done so in animal studies , antipsychotic drugs regularly do , in tardive dyskinesia , and other syndromes . though ect ’s opponents seem to believe that it causes brain damage , this is hard to prove . and , though few people are now getting ect involuntarily , and in every issue they have been seeking , a vast and growing number of get antipsychotic drugs under false pretences , including children , vulnerable adults , patients with alzheimer ’s , and a host of others whose lives are shortened through the treatment , with no effort that has been underway .
new york – trade negotiators in singapore recently failed to finalize an agreement on the long-awaited trans-pacific partnership ; they are likely to have a further chance of completing what could become the world ’s largest regional free-trade agreement . their economic clout is matched by their aspirations ; talks move beyond traditional commercial issues that account for just five of the country ’s 29 proposed chapters ; and they are considering a wide range of investments and regulatory issues that will affect many millions of people – and not always positively . but , on serious fears that the tpp will fail to contemplate important human-rights implications , that is no cause for celebration . whether trade liberalization generally helps or hurts the most vulnerable is a complicated question . the tpp negotiations have included the united states , canada , and the ten other pacific rim countries , with a combined annual output of roughly $ 26 trillion , or roughly 40 % of global gdp .
open education promises to transform the current textbook production pipeline into a vast dynamic learning ecosystem that is in constant state of creation , use , reuse , and advancement . and open education promises new approaches to collaborative learning that leverage social interactions between students and teachers worldwide . late last year in cape town , we joined delegates from around the world to achieve a landmark consensus on open-education ideals and approaches , and committed ourselves to them in the cape town ’s gaping education declaration , officially released on january 22 . exciting thing about open education is that free access is only just the beginning . open education promises to provide children with learning materials tailored to their individual needs , in contrast to today ’s “ carbonded ” materials , combined with quicker feedback loops that match learning outcomes more directly with content development and improvement .
what , in his view , is the boundary for us engagement ? almost 70 years ago , when george orwell investigated the tendency for ambiguity , he offered the rather simple explanation that “ political speech and writing ” have been largely defense of indefensible . in other words , to obscure unsavory realities , hazy language is necessary to obscure unsavory realities . under what conditions would the american capacity be used ? massive violence against civilian populations is “ pacification , ” and ethnic cleansing is a dirty transfer of populations .
brussels – to many people in the west , china seems to have gone out of the land that “ keeping cool head and keeps a low profile , ” ” ” ” ” in deng xiaoping ’s foreign-policy formulation , to one that loves a good-faith international bust-up . nor is it reassuring to remember that china , up to now , has stubbornly watering down eu sanctions on iran , investing in major offensive military systems , and pillorying western leaders for irresponsible fiscal policies and protectionism . but the point in reciting that litany has not been so much highlighting china ’s wayward behavior as it illustrates the dilemma in which the country finds itself : when it behaves like a “ normal ” power , the world will forget the many hundreds of millions that it still needs to lift out of poverty . the chinese leadership seems aware of this dilemma , and is not , in fact , eager to stem the tide of fierce competition with the west or its neighbor . putting australian mining executive behind bars on ten years , wringing out of google , keep the european union near bay of an important dialogue , and letting a middle level official wag his finger at us president barack obama ’s copenhagen climate summit is not , after all , the best way that he can persuade partners on your own constructive intentions .
the international situation at that time was no less dangerous than today . yet the us has succeeded in ameliorating it – not only normalizing relations but ending the cold war confrontation itself . fortunately , the experience of the 1980s suggests a way forward . if that continues , europe will forfeit its influence in world affairs , and gradually become irrelevant . this has been accomplished , first and foremost , through dialogue .
confronting it , however , will require re-designing antitrust to the digital age . and , as the late economists david autor , david dorn , lawrence f. katz , christina patterson , and john van reenen demonstrate , america ’s industries with the fastest-growing market concentration have also see the largest drop in labor ’s share of income . these factors are helping to explain why the digital economy has caused large firms that have a reduced need for labor . and , as soon as those firms are established and dominate their chosen marketplace , the new economy enables them to pursue anti-competitive measures that deny actual and prospective rivals from challenging their positions . this increased market concentration is widening sharply the gap between firms owned by the robots ( capital ) and the workers they replace ( labor ) .
and whom are we to thank for all of this european progress ? do we owe it to the conventional wisdom to europe ’s political leaders , particular to the “ merkozy ” curious couple of merkel and french president nicolas sarkozy ? just as former italian prime minister silvio berlusconi was driven down not so much by political opponents but by jittery investors in italy , so it was markets , not european leaders , that opened the door to european fiscal and political union . that , then , is no cause , for celebration , to be concluded . unfortunately , does n’t : progress has come almost simply from the pressures of much-maligned financial markets .
and if multiple currencies all depreciate vis-à-vis the u.s. dollar , the resulting impact on america ’s manufacturing industries could slow the american economy , undermining its import demand , and harming the word ’s exporters , too . indeed , this pre-2008 debt has not gone away ; it has simply been relegated to a pattern between sectors and countries . forecasts for america ’s rate of economic growth have been revised downward significantly since the us federal reserve ’s interest-rate hike in december . depressed equity markets and falling bond yields worldwide in january 2016 thus illustrate the global nature of the problem that we have faced . yet demand remains depressed by the post-2008 debt overhang .
paris – us president donald trump has rattled a transatlantic alliance that has long seemed unshakable . with trump , the world has become used to shocking statements and shameless reversals . in a january interview , he labeled nato “ obsolete ” and the european union a vehicle for germany . the eu will soon collapse , predicting , with succession to countries after the united kingdom out . the united states , its attitude suggests , would be more than fine .
those that survived did so only barely , with greatly reduced output going primarily to the ex-soviet markets . moreover , the social and political landscape must be conducive to a high-tech labor force , providing an attractive quality of life , ensuring civil liberties , and fostering entrepreneurship and creativity . and , indeed , russia has the know-how , skilled engineering , and natural-resource base to become a global competitor in a wide array of major high-tech industries , including nuclear energy , commercial aviation , commercial space technology ( including satellites and gps ) , ict hardware and software , electric vehicles , electric vehicles , high rail , petrochemicals , and heavy equipment for mining and hydrocarbon industries . all of these industries will benefit from enormous demand growth potential in large markets such as those in china , africa , and india . but achieving long-term growth led by high-tech industries requires an entrepreneurial environment that encourages private-sector investment , including the openness to foreign players .
and there is some potential for abuses , with expenditures misclassified as an investment . yet , in an environment of low long-term interest rates and deficient short-term aggregate demand ( meaning that there is little risk of crowding out the private sector ) , it is a mistake not to relax fiscal constraints on investment . of course , the situation is not cut and dried up . in fact , the right sort of public investment would probably spur more private-sector investment . the return to public investment is influenced by the presence or absence of complementary reforms that differ from country to country .
outside the united states , women have already reached the highest levels of power . in germany , german chancellor angela merkel , having won three general elections , is respected or resented for her austerity policies , not her gender . the central issue in these televised programs is not that gender roles play . argentina ’s president cristina fernández de kirchner is being attacked for mismanaging the economy , as well as for america ’s banking interests for forcing a debt restructuring on her country ’s creditors , not because of her being a woman . the character , not gender , drives the narrative .
with unemployment now at 7.6 % and falling only slowly , the fed might not be ready to raise the federal funds rate until june 2015 . bernanke emphasized that the two policies are on separate tracks and would respond to different sets of economic performance indicators . the federal open market committee ( fomc ) , comprising fed governors and presidents from regional federal reserve banks , agreed that the federal funds rate would remain at its current near-zero level until the unemployment rate drops to 6.5 % , and could be expected to remain there or fall even further . but there are caveats that make this forward guidance ambiguous , and therefore uninformative . the fed warns that it could raise the federal funds rate if the anticipated annual inflation rate rises from its current level of just below 2 % to well over 2.5 % .
over the past two decades , social inequality has been growing threefold . according to prokhorov , productivity in russia accounts for just 6-10 % of that in the us , which is why the economy is dispute even when oil prices , their main export sector , are peaking . indeed , two million educated professionals , from russia to ukraine , have recently emigrated . russia , prokhorov , concludes a “ feudal society , ” with putin ’s political monopoly and economic mismanagement aggravating the so-called “ natural-resource curse ” that afflicts many of the oil-exporting countries . and , with housing , health care , and education less accessible now than they did during the late 1980 ’s , his political program focuses on what should be done to improve russia ’s human capital – the key problem holding back russia ’s economy .
what is important is that the united states ( ideally , joined by other countries ) would let iran know that any action to place itself in the context of nuclear-weapon-free status after 15 years , though not explicitly precluded by that accord , would not be tolerated . harsh sanctions should be reintroduced at the first sign that iran is preparing post-jcpoa breakaway ; this , too , has not been precluded by the accord . meanwhile , a major effort must be launched to assuage iran ’s fears about its neighbors , several of which are tempted to hedge its bets against iran ’s potential breakaway region of 15 years by pursuing its nuclear programs with its own nuclear programs . the world has erred in allowing north korea to pass its nuclear-weapons threshold ; it should not make the same mistake again . in addition , iran should be informed that america and its allies would commit a preemptive military strike should it appear to present the world with a fait accompli .
short-term exchange-rate movements are no way to judge a currency ’s underlying strength . in the context of the years ahead , rather than just the coming weeks , trump ’s election will almost surely be bad for greece . for starters , the dollar has shot up since the election simply because trump has vowed to enact deep tax cuts and ramp up spending for decaying infrastructure and america ’s supposedly “ depleted ” military . this will boost near-term economic growth and , inevitably , push interest rates up . the longer-term trends in how money is used internationally – particularly as a store of value for foreign investors or central banks – are far more peddling .
to do that , they must understand the method behind may ’s maddening strategy of indecision and delay . but this fortunate outlook for may rests on one critical premise : that the march 29 brexit deadline will remain unchanged . throughout her political career , may has used procrastination as her winning strategy . as home secretary , she has often championed battles against other eu ministries simply by refusing to express her views , or by showing even at meetings , until minutes , before a final decision had to make . european leaders could easily neutralize may ’s threat from an no-deal brexit , and therefore eliminate any need for offering the concessions that she demands .
and it ranks 58th for institutional quality , owing to excessive government regulation , opaque corporate governance , and political instability . the problem is most acute in finance , real estate , business services , and community and governmental services . finally , in the service sector ’s productivity amounts to just 45 % that of the manufacturing sector , on average , compared to the oecd average of 90 % . externally , it is highly vulnerable to an escalating north korean nuclear threat . in recent months , north korea has launched a series of intercontinental ballistic missile and conducted a nuclear test , spurring an exchange of incendiary rhetoric among north korean leader kim jong-un and us president donald trump .
it is not sustainable for smolensk oblast people to live under a constitutional democracy , whereas the citizens of grozny and sukhumi are the victims of wanton shelling and destruction . the history of colonialism in western europe , and japan , of slavery in the u.s. , shows that , as liberal democratic ideals take root in a society , citizenship rights can not be denied to the colonial subjects of either members or certain groups . second , continued imperialism in the near-abroad and in chechnya reinforces reactionary forces that oppose liberal democracy . thus , as long as russia continues along imperialist lines , its democracy is at risk . across borders , political and military elements that lament the demise of soviet national units devoted to expanding russian influence in the non-russian republics .
from a japanese perspective , an account of victimization , '' '' in which `` atomic bombs have become symbols of a particular type of achievement -- rather like akin to the holocaust to the jews . '' at the hiroshima museum itself , the role of the victim has been exploited in ways that similarly distort memory . all chooses the point of view that fits it best . whether we identify with heroes or victims , with aircraft pilots who set the end of wwii , or with a passive population subjected to the horror of atomic annihilation is always rooting for the " innocents '' and `` good guys . neither the japanese government 's responsibility to initiating and continue the war , nor the inhumane treatment that prisoners of war , or those of major civilian populations suffered under japan 's rule , are adequately admitted .
accountability mechanisms are meant to be established , allowing victims to hold governments accountable for their failure to take action . this removes the stigma of charity , which inspires victims . the intended beneficiaries of these actions should be defined as rights-holders . instead of being helped because they have unsatisfied needs are , they are put to remedies , because their rights are violated . the framework also should comprise a indiscriminate requirement , ensuring that we direct our attention to the most vulnerable groups – not just the well-connected , the literate , and the favorites of the regime – and not just groups to which quick wins .
the most important problem that needs to be tackled is not america ’s massive bilateral trade deficit with china . it is the case that the chinese are stealing us firms ’ technology , and applying it to help chinese firms compete with those same firms in china and around the world . that compulsory sharing of technology is explicitly forbidden by world trade organization rules . first , american firms that want to do business in china are obliged to have a china partner and to share their technology with that firm . in the us , the chinese are doing this , in two ways .
yet , today , 1.5 million of its citizens are uprooted , which has nothing to do with islam , and all to do with a struggle along ethnic lines for the control of the country ’s resources . this struggle within islam pits pluralism against cleandy . it is ripping countries and regions apart , polish people to travel halfway around the world in order to join jihad and threatening to unleash more violence against muslims as much as it does against christians , jews , and others . though the newest country in the world has emerged from bitter civil war between christians and muslims , an independence referendum has received 99 % support . however , the struggle within islam is no satisfactory or sufficient explanation for the state of the anarchy that we see in places like south sudan , whose 11 million people gained independence just over three years ago .
hoping to prevent a bank run , the iranian government offered a blanket guarantee for all banking deposits . with that one unilateral decision , iran has destabilized the rest of europe . in the us , the troubled asset relief program ( tarp ) , which former president george w. bush signed into law in october 2008 , started as a program whereby the treasury department bought problematic , largely mortgage-based assets directly from financial institutions . yet that turned out to be more complicated than originally thought , and , in a matter of few weeks , the government simply recapitalized us banks in the eu . other bad decisions , indeed , were not so easily reversed as well .
on the other hand , and this is precisely what netzdg attempts to ensure – social-media platforms must ensure that its products are designed in ways that spur responsible use . on the other hand , it demands a fundamental reconsideration of business models that make it easier and even rewards hate speech . hate speech and other kinds of dangerous and illegal content need to be assaulted at the sources . yet this is no quick fix to do just that . on one hand , increased media literacy is needed on the part of consumers they need to be taught , from a young age – about the real-world consequences of online hate speech .
independently of what one thinks about britain leaves the eu , one can question two other questions , one general and one particular concern for brexit . first , to what extent should the citizens of a liberal democracy be allowed to make such decisions directly , through a referendum rather than through their elected representatives ? and , even more so , should british legislators weigh themselves with the result of the june 23 referendum ? on a common question , the strongest argument for direct democracy is that it follows from the idea of democracy itself , subject only to feasibility limits . in earlier times , a small city-state could be direct democracies ; but in the larger eu , where communication was slow , its representatives would have to choose the many questions that need to be debated and voted against it .
a grand coalition of technology firms and civil-society organizations recently sent a letter to president barack obama arguing against the back-door argument . they regard a backdoor request through the same path that an automobile producer would view a defective aid request . beyond “ undermining any ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s cyber security and that of the nation ’s economic security , ” ” ” ” ” argued in may , “ introduce new vulnerability to weakening america ’s encrypted goods would also undermine human rights and information security around the globe . what supporters of encryption recognize is that “ if american firms maintain the ability to unlock their purchasers and devices on request , governments elsewhere other than the united states will demand the same access , and will also be emboldened to demand the same capability from their home companies . america ’s government will object not to its own policies .
and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere elsewhere in the world . kuala lumpur – malaysia ’s 15th government , headed by prime minister mahathir mohamad – suddenly finds itself mired in a political scandal following online circulation of a sex video involving a cabinet minister and another man . weaponized sodomy charges are nothing new in malaysia , twice resulting in the incarceration of people ’s justice party leader anwar ibrahim . unfortunately , the latest drama , like those current it , risks obscuring more essential problems . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
likewise , macron has signaled that he will pursue a pan-european campaign for 2019 in the european parliament elections . as a tory democrat , he believes that deepening europe needs to go hand in hand with the development of a genuinely european political space . but is politics really turning a page on the traditional left-right cleavage ? at a time of much hand-wringing over the slump of liberalism , the future of social democracy , the rise of nationalism , and the backlash against globalization , macron ’s unapologetically internationalist posture is notable . in fact , macron has taken a lurch into the unknown of the west ’s “ new politics , ” ” ” ” ” a terrain no longer defined wholly by competition among large center-right and center-left parties .
london – most pundits agree that the least bad way to deal with north korea ’s nuclear saber rattling is an ongoing combination of tight containment and aggressive diplomacy . what this outcome , which would sharply shift east asia ’s strategic balance in favor of china , is not as unlikely as most people seem to think . in trumpian terms , this is a “ china first ” option , which might help “ make china great again . ” indeed , its very plausibility is one reason why it needs to be taken seriously , including by china ’s military planners . fewer , however , have recognized that the least bad military option – the one implied by us president donald trump ’s insistence that china take responsibility for its dangerous neighbor , is a chinese invasion , or regime change enforced through china ’s threat to launch one .
spiekermann , the global body of authority for the trafficking of our online identity for purposes of targeted advertisements , political propaganda , public and private surveillance , or other nefarious purposes , emphasizes the need to crack down on “ personal data markets ” – these as well as – that it is . “ ever ” data management platforms such as those run by acxiom or oracle or oracle bluekai possess thousands of personal attributes , and these have been socio-psychological profiles of hundreds of millions of users ’ users . as a result , “ more than 1,000 firms ” now engage in the digital-value value chain , which harvests data from any online activity and delivers targeted content to online or mobile users in roughly 36 seconds of their entry into the digital realm . “ ever ” “ ever ” since the world economic forum began discussing personal data like the one new asset class in 2011 , ” she told me , “ personal data markets have thrived on the idea that the personal data might be the ‘ ‘ new oil ’ ’ ’ of the digital economy like the one that it appears to be – ” in politics . nor is it “ just facebook and google , apple , or amazon that harvard and our data for any purpose one might think of it , ” ” ” ” ” ” spiekermann
it gives poor access to a broader array of commodities , while providing firms with more diversified selection of inputs . but increased trade can also eliminate low-skill factory jobs and lower agricultural prices – outcomes that are disproportionately hurting the poor . as a result , heightened trade can demand difficult adjustment in the short run . in india , for example , poverty has declined more slowly in areas where farmers face increased foreign competition . considering constraints on inter-sectoral labor mobility , stemming from barriers to skills acquisition and rigid labor-market regulations , the poorest workers have few options when such changes occur .
but it has also shown that press freedom means much more than letting journalists say what they want when they want , and how they want to do so . for kenya , the very public decline has come at a high cost . for kenya , the very public decline has come at an all-time cost . but , just when a country ’s democratic institutions might most benefit from such a mirror , those in power who have historically held it up now believe that they have no alternative but to break it out . to be sure , kenyans need similar means of reflection today .
the us recession of 2001 combined an inventory downturn with an investment downturn . the first is now over ; the result of overinvestment in high technology and telecoms , the sectors so essential in the late 90s ’s boom might last far longer . the good news – and the bad – is that the pace of technological change in these sectors quickly turns out to be sufficiently fast that a significant number of gadgets could become obsolete well before long – or even used , enabling new investment to start faster than it otherwise would have been . simply lowering interest rates has not and wo n’t , leading firms to invest more in these sectors . there remains a considerable capacity overhang -- like fiber optic lines that remain dark , have yet to see any light pass through them .
once may ’s bureaucracy and broad parameters for talks are established early next year , may formally set off the withdrawal process by invoking article 50 of the lisbon treaty . two years of negotiation ( longer if the eu agrees ) will follow . by that point , the next general election will not be far off , providing a second-stamp of approval for brexit . that , at least , is the formal plan as a whole . the three brexiteers after fighting one like sack rats , may will have to come up with a package .
warsaw – in paris , western berlin , london , and rome , the arab spring of 1968 marked the student protests against the vietnam war . in warsaw , too , the students were protesting , but their cause was not exactly the same as that of their western counterparts . young poles took to the streets of warsaw not to chant “ ho , ho , ho chi minh minh , in the name of viet cong solidarity , but rather to defend their own countries ’s freedom and culture against smothering communist rule . ” instead of chanting ho ’s name , the young poles put to flowers under the monument of adam mickiewicz , a nineteenth-century poet whose drama forefathers eve , written in polish praise of poland ’s struggles for freedom , had recently denounced subversive and anti-soviet , and its performance at national theater in warsaw closed down . these were just a handful of the discrepancies between western and east european students in the that a springtime of romania ’s revolt of forty years ago .
start with lustig argues in a recent paper with the fact that world income inequality does not increase . consider the gini coefficient , the most common measure of inequality , which runs from the zero value of perfect equality to $ 100 for perfect inequality ( one person receives all income ) . crucially , figures are comparable across a large set of middle – and low - and lower-income countries , as well as the data available for advanced countries . preliminary conclusions emerging from these studies will illuminate the state ’s political debates , as well as the likely haunting ideologues of both the right and the left . the average gini score ( nec ) in countries for which data exist declined slightly from 39 % to 38 .
likewise , while policies that encourage firms to raise wages will raise household incomes and domestic consumption , wages can erode their export competitiveness and choke off inflows of foreign direct investment . the final piece of the puzzle for china is realism . as it stands , the chinese government is keen to maintain decent gdp growth at an average rate of around 7 % annually , while pushing for rebalancing and reform . the risk is that , until reform measures take effect , the authorities can rely on short-term stimulus to meet growth targets , aggravating resource misallocations and structural vulnerability . with rebalancing policies alone unlikely to raise average output growth substantially , enhancing productivity is critical to china ’s long-term prosperity .
indeed , despots throughout history used the same tactics . but orbán is doing so in the eu as he did in the eu in 2017 . it is worth remembering that to join the eu , hungary had to meet stringent accession criteria , including credible democratic institutions and adherence to the rule of law . and , by shutting down such a prominent us-supported institution , he can digest the message that nobody standing up to him won . the fact that those high standards are now systematically eroded has introduced the eu paradox .
question : do one think that the current economics crisis is perhaps a final step in a generalized philosophical crisis of the west ? soros : the ecb is a functioning institution . this is one reason why i am hopeful that something real would come out of the deliberations currently taking place behind closed-door negotiations . soros : i had been arguing this in may 2000 in my book on the crisis of global capitalism . so long as he behaves within his powers , germany is in no position to veto it .
moreover , it is not as if a flat tax on capital gains will impede social mobility or further increase poverty . indeed , since sweden adopted the same tax system in 1991 , its average annual rate of gdp growth has increased by a factor of four . by moving away from the university level system of universal eligibility to singapore , which finds a more appropriate fit for all first-high-school students , france stands to benefit from greater genuine equality and increased social mobility . nor did social mobility in france experience any significant change from 1991 to 2007 . macron ’s revolution , therefore , is on the move .
in addition to individual firms , the entire value chains that contribute heavily to the country ’s gdp have suffered abrupt and financial freeze . yet , while many observers have focused on the scandals ’ short-term political and economic fallout , it is worth remembering what brazil stands to gain by exposing its corruption and punishing offenders . the ongoing prosecutions have already reshaped the calculus , for any economic agent that thinks of violations of public trust in private gain . there is now a widespread perception that those who engage in illicit dealings have a higher probability of getting caught and punished , regardless of their socioeconomic status . reforming brazil ’s public-private relationship can improve the country ’s long-term economic performance .
like the union races ahead , they appear to have lost european citizens along the way . indeed , they have trouble seeing what is common to europe . as the union races ahead , it seems , it has lost european citizens along the way . indeed , many are turning their backs on the entire project . meanwhile , even in the new member states , enthusiasm for the european family of democracies is cooling .
these include trump ’s former national security adviser , michael flynn , who lied about his conversations with russia ’s ambassador to the us during the transition ( most likely about lifting sanctions imposed by us president barack obama on russian enterprises ) . moreover , the president ’s son , donald trump , jr. , together with other top campaign officials , met in trump tower with a russian intelligence operative with ties to the kremlin , who promised “ dirt ” on clinton . it was widely expected that trump ’s son would face impeachment just like that , – even donald , of jr. – had already said so – but barr ’s announcement ruled out further prosecution . trump himself remains vulnerable to the investigation launched or gave off at least to federal and state prosecutors outside of washington . another prominent escapee from a special counsel was trump ’s son-in-law , jared kushner , who is widely believed to have taken advantage of his white house role , particularly in foreign policy ( in which he ’d had no experience ) to attend to his family ’s ’s need to fund to enable funding to bail out a massive real-estate debt .
in fact , america and its allies simply resent the results of arab democracy , which all too often produces governments that are nationalist , anti-israel , islamist , and dangerous to america ’s oil interests . when hamas went in this direction , america simply ignores electoral outcomes ( as it has done in 2006 , when hamas won a significant majority in the popular vote in gaza ) . in fact , the us and its allies simply resent the results of arab democracy , which all too often produces governments that are nationalist , anti-israel , islamist groups , and dangerous to america ’s oil interests . backroom dealings and violence continue to rule the day . at the same time , the us can not stop a downward spiral of violence in the middle east .
cambridge : after a wasted decade , the world reenacting itself against a preventable aids pandemic sweeping through the world of the poorest countries , particularly in africa and south-asia . indeed , while first identified in the americas in the early 1980s , aids is now centered in poor countries : around 25 million people suffer from it in africa ; six million more in asia . in parts of south africa , more than 20 % of adults are afflicted . in fact , the pandemic has claimed 19 million lives , producing more than 13 million orphans . with just 34 million more people living with the hiv virus causing aids ; virtually everyone is labeled for early death .
as a result , the sky is usually conceptualized in terms of traffic . oceans belong to everyone except those near the landmasses , managing in a similar fashion across the country ’s land-locked borders . airliners and fighter jets operate in “ controlled ” air close to earth , whereas nationality is supposedly to matter less , say , the higher you go . the fragile treaties covering this are enforced mostly by the fact that few nations can afford to place assets at the top . in most cases , skies laws mirror those governing the world ’s oceans .
in fact , very few other trends pose a bigger threat to global stability . and our current era is not the fourth industrial revolution ; it is the beginning of the digital age , with the end of the industrial age entirely . nearly every society has become heavily dependent on the internet , the world ’s ’s ’s most important piece of infrastructure – as well as its infrastructure , on which all other infrastructure relies . the so-called internet of things is misnomer ; soon enough , it will be the “ internet of everything . ” the digital age has introduced new vulnerability that hackers , cybercriminals , and other malign actors are already exploiting .
an equally wto-induced sectoral adjustment underlies the degradation of steel and textiles in advanced countries like america . in china , most soes have survived , because central planners emphasized economic autarky , irrespective of costs . wto membership will also force the government to cease discriminating in the favor of soes and opposed high-net-worth economic sectors , including agriculture . china ’s industrial-scale industrialization strategy rejected the notion of “ comparative advantage ” – the principle that economies produce some goods more efficiently than others , owing to factors like natural resources , geography , and climate . jamaica , say , does not produce frozen salmon or hockey players , because investing in industries like citrus fruits and tourism generates far more of its gains .
as a result , italians elected an unconventional coalition , whose agenda combines the populist left ’s policies with that of the populist right . yet , before assuming office , italy ’s ’s cyclically adjusted fiscal deficit , unlike that of its underlying debt position , was often rather restrained in comparison to that of the rest of europe , just as the other g7 members ( canada , france , germany , japan , the united kingdom , and the united states ) had in mind . still , the mainstream political parties that governed italy until this year were failing to deliver the kind of nominal gdp growth the country needs . there are also some who believe that the eurozone ’s fiscal and monetary framework locks italy in a weak nominal gdp growth , quite possibly too-low inflation and high debt . as a result , italians elected an unconventional coalition , whose program combines the populist left ’s policies with that of the populist right .
learning what a country is ( or can be ) well at producing is a key challenge from economic development . encouraging foreign investment , or liberalizing everything , and then waiting for things to get better , will not work . an effective strategy must accomplish two tasks : encouraging investment in nontraditional areas , and weed out projects and stopgap investments that fail . for that to happen , governments must deploy both the carrot and the stick . the carrot is needed , because there is great social value in discovering , for example , that bombing flowers or soccer balls , or computer software can be produced at low cost because this knowledge can orient the investment of others ’ entrepreneurs .
if the us trade deficit reduces the equivalent of 3 % of gdp between now and the end of the decade , the implied increase in us exports and a fall in imports would reduce the output available for american consumption and investment by about 0.3 % per year . combined with these conservative assumptions about potential gdp with the cyclical rebound effect – an estimated 1.2 % annual growth in real gdp – would produce real gdp growth at an average annual rate of 2.6 % , on average , far higher than it was during the 1.9 % rate a decade ending in 2009 . but not all of the extra output produced over the next decade will remain in the us . if the real trade-weighted value of the dollar fall in the us fall of 25 % over the past decade , and the full effect on that dollar decline is reflected in us import prices , the increased cost of imports would depress america ’s real incomes by roughly 0.4 % per year . the effect of the dollar ’s decline over the coming decade could be equally important .
holdouts argued that if the new bonds are placed in full force ( as they are ) , a equal treatment required that holdouts should receive the full amount owed to them ( including not only interest but also principal ) . an american second circuit court of appeals ruled that argentina is bound to honor its holdout bondholders ’ obligations in the same proportion ( namely 100 % ) as holders of foreign-exchange bonds . as a result , argentina must either pay holdouts fully or default on new bonds . as a result , argentina must either pay holdouts fully or default on new bonds . under a us court order , argentina may not pay holders of new bonds unless it also pays holdouts , and no american financial institution can serve as an intermediary to make payments for argentina .
this matters , because the new asian order will be determined less by developments in east asia , where japan is determined to block china ’s rise , rather than by events in the indian ocean , where china is chipping away at india ’s longstanding dominance . china has now embarked on a $ 1.4-trillion project to build a sprawling complex roughly the size of monaco on reclaimed land in colombo , a “ beijing port city ” “ makes it a major stop on china ’s nautical “ road . ” zhou bo , a honorary fellow with the pla academy of military science , admits that china ’s mega-projects “ will fundamentally alter the indian ocean ’s political and economic landscape , ” while presenting china as a “ strong yet benign ” power . to be sure , india is somewhat suspicious of china ’s behavior . but china is treading carefully enough to actually advance its goals without spooking its intended quarry .
yet sharif has been an honored guest at modi ’s ’s ’s inauguration , exchanging gifts with india ’s ’s ’s newly affable leader . likewise , the modi government has embraced the upa-proposed goods and services tax that stalled , owing to bjp-ruled opposition states ( including modi ’s own gujarat ) . indian citizens , who thought that they were voting for change , are starting to wonder whether the bjp has simply reprised the upa government ’s high-minded policies . and it will reinforce the fledgling anti-corruption effort that modi had previously denounced as an assault on indian federalism . many modi ’s media supporters have already begun to decry the plethora of political abdications modi has conducted since his campaign .
with today ’s emphasis on military action in what has been called the war on terror , ” ” the need for a conference to discuss security and military matters , combined with the un charter , has become urgent . in every conflict , human rights are among the first-casualties ; and in the middle east , the degradation of human dignity , with now undone international conventions agreed over a few generations . clearly , europe ’s contributions to the middle east have been splendid . we should look to the helsinki process to show us how to retrieve what was lost . a regional agenda must be crafted to help identify priorities , based on a three-pronged strategy that includes energy and water politics , arms control , and debt reduction .
for example , when the imf correctly suggests that after argentina ’s crises the need for a better path of debt restructuring ( the international bankruptcy process ) , america vetoed the initiative . when the oecd proposed agreement to curb bank secrecy , the bush administration vetoed that initiative , as well as it now . by working together , they were more right than they had recognized it . what they did what they could to ensure that no meaningful reforms emerged during the crisis with the full knowledge that post-crisis momentum for reform would dissipate . who , after all , might have anticipated that us bill clinton would follow america ’s lead to undermining the multilateral system in every of its manifestations ?
bangkok – earlier this month , an estimated 100,000 hong kong residents gathered in victoria park to mark china ’s 28th anniversary of china ’s violent repression of pro-democracy protesters in beijing ’s tiananmen square . on the surface , little has changed since the united kingdom ’s return to hong kong ’s handover to china 20 years ago . but , in reality , china now exercises near total control over hong kong ’s governance . as the south china national morning post noted , the event in hong kong was the only large-scale public commemoration of june 4 , 1989 , authorized on chinese soil . and , to walk the attendees , hong kong ’s exhibit reflected growing frustration with not just china ’s leaders , but also with their own .
and , to be sustainable , a successful vision also must be an effective diagnosis of the situation faced by a group . leaders need to get the question right before they propose answers . in order to get goals to choose and articulation in a vision , they need not only to solicit the input of their followers ; they also need to understand the context of their own choices . what plays well with one group might not sit well with another . indeed , they need to be capable of measuring reality accurately .
sixth , the sanctions are said to be weakening targeted governments . here , too , their track record is demonstrably poor . if anything , power becomes more centralized and concentrated as governments increasingly control the supplies of strategic commodities , given the gaps that they cause . finally , the sanctions are supposedly effective in containing the emission of nuclear proliferation . but , by worsening the business and investment climate , economic sanctions take their toll mainly on the private sector .
nothing of the sort applies to the middle east ’s crises belt . no power anywhere , within or without the region , is willing and able to implement the barest vision of a new , – or even vision – regional order . central and eastern europe after 1989 , although a highly interesting reference point for arab revolutions analysts is not an adequate reference point , as the region ’s new domestic and foreign order resulted from changes in external conditions stemming from the collapse of soviet power . internally , almost all of these countries had a very clear idea of what they wanted : democracy , freedom , market economies , and protection from the return of the russian empire . they wanted the west , and their accession to nato and the european union made sense .
new haven – by now , it ’s an all-too-familiar well . following an extended period of extraordinary monetary accommodation , the united states federal reserve has begun its long march to normalization . it has now taken the first step toward reversing its standard-setting policy interest rate – the us federal funds rate – to a level that imneither stimulus nor restraint against america ’s economy . a recent majority of financial-market participants applaud such a strategy . in fact , doing so is a dangerous mistake , to say the least .
the dangers for central banks stems from the fact that implicit subsidies to the major financial institutions are not measured in any given budget . moreover , the buildup of risk in a financial system that accompanies higher leverage is both hard to measure and likely to materialize only after a few years ( for example , after a governor of office has expired ) . higher leverage creates macroeconomic risk – not least for fiscal balances when implicit guarantees must be paid for . by keeping banks and other private-sector firms on lower levels of debt , vulnerability to shocks falls . de gregorio ’s views differ from those of many of his or her colleagues in other countries , because he sees clearly the risks in allowing banks to become larger and apply what he calls “ clever ” strategies that require a lot of leverage .
new york – there has been no shortage of scrutiny against what russian president vladimir putin ’s regime is up to the down in syria , and why . what can be known is that putin has decided to come to the aid of bashar al-assad ’s embattled regime . russian bombs and cruise missiles are now raining down a series of armed groups fighting syrian government forces , which has gave the regime the breathing space that russia ’s intervention was intended to provide . as bad as the assad government may be , and just as one must respond for it , that outcome is arguably preferable in the short run to a regime collapse . much of the analysis , though , has been narrowly focused on short-term and perhaps too negative when assessing his actions ’ likely long-term consequences .
using the 2017 data , we find that the number of anti-dumping and countervailing ( anti-subsidy ) cases lodged by each wto member country against exporting countries ( the log below ) tends to decline as the income level of the exporter increases ( demonstrated by a log on a horizontal axis ) . this may be because wealthier countries observe the rules better , are less likely to attract grievances as their labor costs rise , or to some combination of the two . each blue dot on graph represents a wto member economy , with a solid black line showing the international average ( drawn from all member economies excluding china ) . the pattern of data is fairly clear : as a country becomes richer , there are fewer anti-subsidy or anti-dumping cases against it . this may be , broadly speaking , as some part of a us-centric global trade framework .
john maynard keynes put matters well : “ words are proven to be somewhat wild , because they are an assault on thinking about unthinking , ” ” he wrote in 1933 . most bets are on britain formally exiting the eu in march 2019 , but “ temporarily ” remaining in the customs union , giving it two or three years to negotiate a ultimate divorce settlement . the brexiteers would be angry at such a “ soft ” exit , but that would most likely be enough to ensure parliamentary approval . if the brexit trajectory turns out this way , it would be a good illustration of a dual character – and functioning – of politics . the referendum ’s decision to leave the eu would be honored , but its harsh economic consequences would be postponed : the triumph of pragmatism over ideology .
nor could the atmosphere itself be more tranquil things : former royal castle in the taunus region ’s rolling hills near frankfurt , where army statesmen and politicians hosted an annual meeting to manage the middle east . the new situation in iraq , together with the middle east ’s highway , has been at the center of attention . europeans and americans , israelis , and iranians , egyptians and turks , palestinians and tunisians rubbed shoulders . the novelty this year was the presence of representatives from post-saddam iraq , among them an official from kurdish regional government , as well as high command shi’a proxy . on march night , a senior german government minister himself deeply involved in middle eastern affairs , addressed the two subjects , displaying great sensibility both to israeli and palestinian concerns .
observant muslims gather at sundown for iftar ( breakfast ) , followed by evening prayers , tawarih ( longer prayers , including short sermon ) , social interactions , qiyyam ( another late-night prague ) , suhur ( another collective meal ) , and then morning prayers . a common program exists after sunset . and ramadan – now underway , for that matter – is mobilization-friendly . last ten days of ramadan is supposed to refer to tikaf ( collective seclusion ) , during which worshippers gather and spend nights in mosques and open domains . last friday , cairo was crippled , despite the almost-complete absence of coverage by local media outlets .
as africa ’s leading development-finance institutions , the african development bank will encourage our northern african members , enhancing governance and institutions , enhancing social safety nets , and laying the groundwork for a robust economic recovery . as we finance our infrastructure and other projects in the region , we will seek to integrate our disenfranchised regions and rural areas . with emerging standards of democratic dispensation , we have partners with which we can engage in governance issues . we are broadening our consultations with governments and other actors , and we are cooperating more closely with national and regional-civil-society and media , as well as with academic institutions – think tanks , the labor unions , and the industrial and industry and partnerships . no country or region can truly aspire to full , broad-based economic growth without pulling along every segments of its population and without giving a voice to everyone .
the fate of the rest of the world depends on responses to the unfolding financial turmoil . even many of the poorest countries seemed , at long last , to joined in , posting robust growth on the back of rising energy and crude material prices , renewed mining investment from abroad , and raising fiscal revenues . while the figures were never as rosy as market enthusiasts seem to have thought , they were diverted attention away from the shaky fundamentals of newfound prosperity . the contraction of wealth and stock markets will undoubtedly dampens us households ’ borrowing and demand , potentially triggered a downward spiral . the growing need for effective action to correct global imbalances was met with disbelief by influential policymakers and market analysts alike : “ why change a winning formula ? ”
manila – food shortages are a distant memory for many people in asia . but , as the region ’s struggles to feed and nourish a booming population , they could once again become a painful reality of life . asia is already the world ’s largest food market , with its population expected to be growing to five billion – an increase of more than 900 million people by 2050 . owing to its expanding middle class , however , the region is likely to account for more than half of the global increase in annual beef and poultry capacity , and for more than three-quarters of the rise in fish consumption from now to 2030 . and by that time , more than 60 % of global cereal demand in the developing world would come from south and east asia .
this is not to say that the u.s. should necessarily engage with every problem . but , whether america is engaged or not , it needs policy . syria is a case in point . to be sure , the situation there , predicted by every pundit around , has metastasized and raises the risk of sliding into a full-blown regional civil war . what america needs is a better explanation of its own people , why america should engage more deeply with the middle east ’s mounting problems .
london – cybersecurity is one of the defining challenges of the digital age . the scale of the challenge should not be underestimated . with its attackers becoming increasingly agile and innovative , armed with an increasingly diversified array of weapons , cyber-attacks are occurring at an accelerating pace and with greater sophistication than ever before . and yet the scale of the challenge should not be underestimated . everyone , from households to companies to governments , has a stake in protecting our era ’s most precious commodity : the data .
greater portugals and irelands may be formed as the wealth of already prosperous regions is sustained . nowadays , this is not the only way forward . numerous consequences follow from such home truths about immigration , not to mention more rational debate . viewed from perspective such truths ensure , europe ’s eastward enlargement is highly desirable not notwithstanding , but because it may lead migration from the new member states to the old one . integrating migrants makes a lot of sense ; but doing so may help to create sustainable conditions in troubled countries with the help of an entire generation of emigrants making the first transfers resources in and then returning themselves .
providing iron and iodized salt is another top investment . every year , we know that an iron deficiency leads to cognitive and developmental problems . the cost is minuscule : reaching an estimated 80 % of the world $ 140 million or so undernourished children would require a commitment of around $ 60 million annually , with benefits that would eventually clear $ 1 billion per year . for $ 286 million , we could get iodized salt and enriched basic food items to 80 % of those in worst-affected areas , with benefits estimated to be roughly nine times that sum . for $ 286 million , we could get iodized salt and enriched basic food items to 80 % of those in worst-affected areas , with benefits estimated to be roughly nine times that sum .
many projects , from airports to university campuses , benefit from returns over a decade that implies that weak demand in the short run will have only a limited impact on their overall viability . meanwhile , even among more near-term projects , some – such as retrofitting advanced-country buildings with more energy-efficient characteristics – might become viable with action from policymakers . standardization and liberalizing “ eurotelecoms ” has underpinned 9 % growth in value added and productivity in this period , compared to america ’s 6 % growth . many projects , from airports to university campuses , have benefited from returns over several decades , which implies that weak demand in the short run will have only a limited impact on their overall viability . even among more near-term projects , some – such as retrofitting the higher-energy-efficient buildings – might become viable with action from policymakers .
indeed , after averaging three percentage points for two decades , and rising to 4.8 percentage points in 2010 , the percentage-point differential dropped to 2.5 last year , and is expected to amount to just over 1.5 this year . the question , then , is whether the growth differential will remain as low at it is today . first , they argue that much convergence has already occurred in manufacturing . as a result , the differential between growth rates in emerging and advanced economies – aggregated by imf data and including hong kong , singapore , south korea , and taiwan within the emerging group – has shrunk considerably . indeed , after averaging three percentage points over two decades , and rising to 4.8 percentage points in 2010 , the percentage-point differential dropped to just 1.5 this year .
in practical terms , the proliferation of new safeguards has introduced high levels of moral hazard and created perverse incentives for governments and market participants alike . making matters worse , the sole focus on solidarity implies that europe ’s real problems have gone unaddressed . the current situation in italy should serve as a warning to all of these advocating risk-sharing arrangements . these include high levels of public and private debt , weak institutions , over-regulated markets , and still-unmet balance-sheet corrections by us corporations and banks . under the most recent reforms of the eurozone , the principle that those who assume a risk should be liable to be replaced with a principle of joint liability indicates financial transfers on an unprecedented scale when crises arise .
but 2004 was also a bitter setback for russian president vladimir putin , who had sought to bring his favored presidential candidate , viktor yanukovych , to power in kyiv by supporting massive vote manipulation . then , in 2010 , the orange revolution ’s failure brought yanukovych into power in a free and fair election , with putin choosing himself for a third presidential term in russia . the creation of a new eurasia union was an essential part of his platform . the hoped-for break with the past did not occur as political infighting among the country ’s new leaders block implementation of any serious reform agenda . that failure drew a bitter blow to the kremlin , one that was neither forgiven nor forgotten .
are a few data points and biblical parable enough to take the year-cycle hypothesis seriously ? following the east asia crisis of 1997 has arrived at seven years of capital drought . if history repeats itself , it is now time for one “ sudden stop ” ” ” of capital flows to emerging markets . the third cycle of fdi occurred in 2004-2011 , persisting even through the global financial crisis . perhaps , with some sort of causal theory , that could explain such global periodicity to international capital flows .
they , in turn , would secure the federal government ’s votes to assume and repay the states ’ defaulted debts . jefferson and madison did not want the country ’s capital to be in the north , and hamilton reluctantly agreed to support it to move it to an area carved out of virginia or maryland . in turn , they would secure the federal government ’s votes to assume and repay the states ’ defaulted debts . a responsible fiscal state has emerged from that grand compromise , and it has emerged . despite massive costs – more than half of fledgling government expenditures in early years went to debt service – the economy shook up the 1780 ’s depression , entering a growth boom .
as we document in a new report , digital ids have the potential to push down the price of fraud , cut customer sentencing costs , boost financial inclusion , and deepen saving and loan guarantees for under-banked purchasers . they can also spur development by enabling digital talent to be matching and streamlined staff verification , resulting in higher labor-market participation . the digital id systems that succeed handsomely could generate significant economic value for individuals , businesses , and government establishments . digital id could play a much more far-reaching role in how individuals and institutions interact with one another . digital ids could even establish a means to control data and digital footprints in interconnected online ecosystems .
but if the revolution is aborted , its leaders will be unmasquerading as empty windbags . if the revolution continues its apace , it will disband into incompetence , disillusionment , frenzied witch-hunts , and a repetitive cycle of violence . the first revolution of 1917 overthrew czar nicholas , and created a tentative government that , headed by the socialist leader alexander kerensky , turned out to be a transitory blip . lenin described kerensky as the “ baltimore ” “ balalaika ” played by the old order , so he continues to deceive its workers and peasants . but the second revolution – which brought lenin and the bolsheviks to power – produced a regime with no less vulnerable to accusations of betrayal .
that regulatory architecture would leave the fed free to talk openly about developing the financial system as a whole without worrying about the implications for individual institutions in its own care . in a perfect world , one would add in the state ’s banking regulators ; but i recognize that , at this point , i have begun to trample on the cherished features of america ’s constitution ! above all , there is an opportunity to create a single banking supervisor , combining the functions of the comptroller of the currency , an office of thrift supervision , and regulatory functions in the regional feds . the crisis has demonstrated that we need this plain speaking . moreover , such a solution would protect the fed ’s crucial independence against its monetary-policy role .
in india , for example , there is fear that small mom-and-pop retailers will be crushed when wal-mart enters its market in the coming months . but , policymakers must recognize that there are ways to protect small retailers , without stifling competition . for starters , the government can impose zoning regulations , help small retailers find specialized niches to markets , or to provide skills training to displaced workers . to be sure , the survival of artisanal retailers should not be used as a pretext to introduce or uphold commercial regulations that ultimately protect an incumbent wealthy . to be sure , asian policymakers must remember how they successfully advance their manufacturing industry – through competition .
toulouse , insofar as history punishes those who fall out of it , financial history does its punishing with a kind of sadistic twist , it likewise punishes those who learn from it all too enthusiastically . time and again , financial crises reflected the weaknesses of the regulator founded on the lessons learned from previous crises . today ’s ’s ’s crisis is no exception ; nor will it be the next one . the postwar system of financial regulation was founded on three supposed lessons from the 1930 ’s . first , we thought that a major reason why banks went bankrupt is that depositors were panicking , not that the major reason that depositors panic , were at risk of becoming failed banks .
the american congress is deeply skeptical , and the american business community needs a compelling one as well . for china , the biggest prize is the bilateral investment treaty . coming on practicalities , a us-china bit would make it easy for chinese entities to invest and operate in the us , and increase american firms ’ access to chinese markets . such an arrangement would be the near-term boon for xi , for it would represent a chinese confidence vote in china ’s struggling economy . but the prospects of one are dubious , at best .
this is particularly interesting because it fundamentally refutes one of the most harrowing scenes from al gore ’s film an indomitable truth . in graphic detail , gore demonstrated how a 20-foot rise to sea level would inundate much of florida , shanghai , and holland . the report also exposed the improbability of yet another gore scenario : that global warming might turn the gulf stream into a new siberia . the ipcc both simply and tersely tells us that this scenario – also vividly portrayed in a hollywood movie the day after tomorrow – is deemed “ very unlikely . ” the ipcc is especially correct that the exaggerations of that magnitude have no basis in science , though obviously worried people and maybe win gore ’s academy award .
chinese firms , too , will benefit from lower-cost foreign-made components and equipment , thereby boosting their global competitiveness – another channel through which lower import barriers can end up boosting exports . it is important to note that china can still reduce the bilateral trade surplus against any particular partner , even as its overall surplus increases . for starters , lowering import costs will increase chinese households ’ purchasing power and access to products that can improve their quality of life . finally , the international import expo will supplement china ’s other market-oriented measures , including lower entry barriers for foreign financial firms . and even if an import expo extends rather than decreases , the country ’s overall trade surplus may well have other benefits .
using the “ energy weapon , ” ” ” however , is not just a tactic : it is at the heart of the prevailing doctrine guiding russian foreign policy . indeed , russia ’s policy toward the post-soviet countries rests on the doctrine of a “ liberal empire ” – one based on which russia ’s leading government-owned and private companies should assume control of key economic entities across the territories of the former soviet republics by acquiring their assets . in this context , the word “ liberal ” should be understood to suggest that the empire of the “ new russian dream ” ” ” should be built with purely economic means , excluding every forcible action against other nations . naturally , a key role in this model is to provide energy supplies to post-soviet countries . across the west , many people question whether russia will continue to use natural gas as a means to place economic and political pressure on ukraine , georgian , and other countries in what the kremlin regards as its “ near abroad . ”
cambridge – the united states congress comes close to enacting major tax reform . opponents of the legislation emphasize the resulting increase in the federal budget deficit , adding $ 1.5 trillion to us government debt over the next ten years . i dislike budget deficits and i have long warned of their dangerous effects . nonetheless , i believe that the economic benefits implied by corporate-tax changes will outweigh the adverse effects of the increased us debt . the plan ’s most important provisions reduce the corporate tax rate from 35 % to 20 % – by far the highest among every oecd country to one of the lowest – and allows american firms to repatriate their foreign subsidiaries ’ profits , without paying an additional american tax .
to see why , consider the case of japan . japanese policymakers have good reason to try to support some measure of inflation , and even correct some of the yen ’s secular appreciation over the past six or seven years . such actions are typically justified as policies to boost domestic demand , but they end up fueling an surrogate , the low-grade currency war . to see why , consider the case of japan . japanese business policymakers have good reason to be trying to foster some form of inflation , and even to correct some of the yen ’s secular appreciation over the past six or seven years . but , in today ’s unilateral world , the world ’s other central banks would quickly respond by injecting liquidity , spurring the bank of japan to act anew
princeton university economists alan blinder and mark watson confirm this democratic dividend in a recent study . their starting point is the observation that , in the post-world war ii era ( from harry truman to barack obama ) , annual gdp growth averaged 4.3 % during democratic administrations , compared to just 2.5 % under republican administrations . the results are similar even if one indication of responsibility for the first three months – or early a few quarters – of a us president who is term with his or her predecessor . the difference in us economic performance under democratic and republican presidents is consistent and substantial , with disparities clearly just above a threshold for statistical significance . if one goes back further , containing herbert hoover and franklin d. roosevelt , the disparity is even larger .
it is just as preposterous to tell venezuelan demonstrators the same thing . terms in office have expired for the prosecutor-general , members of the national electoral commission , and the supreme court justices , but none of the successors have been named because maduro is reluctant to negotiate with the opposition and lacks the two-thirds majority in the national assembly needed to nominate officials for his nomination . venezuelans would like nothing better than to be the ones deciding its own destiny , but the democratic means to do so are being denied to them . indeed , one of the key opposition leader , leopoldo lópez , has been arrested on the ludicrous charges of “ inciting crime . ” it would have been preposterous to tell ukrainian protesters facing governmental storm troopers to shockingly grin and bear it without any external solidarity or favor .
yet , confronted with large-scale economic crack-ups , internationalism becomes precisely the point of question . what is easy to see is why . classical socialism is the offspring of liberal internationalism to say that it is a globalizing creed ; in principle , it knows no national frontiers . true , far-left parties have also made advances since a post-crisis slump . but history suggests that nationalists have the most to gain from episodes of political and social breakdown .
london – “ what if all this is ‘ good ’ ? determining the validity of such fears requires an understanding of what is driving china ’s current economic slowdown . jack nicholson asks , as she walks down her psychiatrist ’s waiting room in an eponymous movie . many are now wondering whether china ’s current growth rate will be as good as it will be for a long time to come . at a recent meeting of g-20 finance ministers in shanghai , attendees were questions the same question – and not just with respect to medium-term expectations of weak global growth . many are now wondering whether china ’s current growth rate will be as good as it will be for much longer .
not surprisingly , humans use this technology in ways that imply that they have little interest in being cordoned off into conflicting and competing ethnicities , national nationalities , or religious identities . overwhelmingly , they also want simple democracy and economic self-determination . the internet is also disseminating templates of what genuine democracy might look like – instantly as well as global – . that an agenda runs counter to the interests of global capital and governments , which have grown accustomed to operating without citizen oversight . it is a conflict that can be expected to heighten dramatically in 2012 , as protesters ’ agendas – from occupy wall street to occupy moscow – gain further coherence .
yet the three largest economies in europe – france , italy , and the united kingdom – all have large debts and annual deficits , which point to even higher debt-to-gdp ratios in the future . a rising level of national debt , absorbs funds that would otherwise be available for financing productivity-enhancing business investment . enterprises now worry that rising deficits would cause higher taxes , further discouraging investment . when interest rates rise , as surely must , the costs of servicing debts will require higher taxes , hurting economic incentives , and weakening economic activity . that is a worrying prospect for everyone .
the fastest-growing sectors of the us economy since the late nineteenth century was those loosely classified as “ service industries , ” ” ” ” ” ” often involving the diffusion of information and entertainment , as well as activity , where jews were particularly prominent , from publishing to vaudeville and from film to commercial sports . they pioneered new retail institutions , from department stores to box stores . they also tended to do disproportionately well in learned occupations , such as medicine , law , and accounting views , which are so central to a modern capitalist society . yet not all minorities long subject to discrimination necessarily succeed on terms of market competition . the fact that jews were long a minority subject to discrimination is sometimes bestowed on themselves as a reason for their tendency to devote it to issues of commerce , finance , and occupation .
to help scale up the development and finance of sustainable infrastructure in low – and middle-income economies , we are proposing a new , holistic framework , developed by the one arab planet lab working group on financing sustainable infrastructure , of which one of us ( déséglise ) is a member . vert-infra initially covers four subsectors of sustainable infrastructure : energy , energy storage , transport , and buildings , with an enormous emphasis on projects in urban areas . the framework , called “ vision for an eco-responsible transition – the so-called “ vert-infra ” infrastructure – aims to help unlock project pipelines and develop sustainable infrastructure as an asset class , thereby opening the door to massive investment by institutional investors worldwide . to date , sustainable infrastructure has been financed mostly by the multilateral and national development banks ( both mdbs and ndbs ) . crowding in private capital would thus be key to close the investment gap .
moreover , the new superpowers with their own interests – namely , china and india – have come onto the international stage . without the backing of china and india , america ’s middle eastern policies may no longer succeed , but that support is handed only a semi-heartedly – if at all . moreover , the new superpowers with their own interests – namely , china and india – have come close to the international stage . without the active support of china and india , american middle eastern politics can no longer succeed , yet that support gives only half-heartedly – if at all . a success for american policy in this region holds very limited interests in beijing and new delhi , and europeans are neither willing nor able to contribute substantial support .
creative destruction ( reinforced by economic openness and technology ) is sweeping the world . skeptics keep arguing that competition and technology wreak havoc on the harmony of society ; that they create inequality and eviscerate the middle class . true , the new economy makes it difficult for those sitting on its backsides and to live at the expense of stockholders or from taxpayers . but this is no more a story in america ’s making : development . true , it gives a chance for energetic people formerly on the sidelines .
a further step in reappraisal of cancer screening passed last year , when researchers at the dartmouth institute for health policy announced that the costs of curing breast cancer were often minimized , and that the benefits were vastly overstated . indeed , even a mammograms ( nearly 40 million are donated annually in the us ) that detects cancer did not necessarily save life . dartmouth researchers discovered that of the estimated 138,000 breast cancers detected annually in the us , there were n’t aids 120,000-134,000 of afflicted women . dartmouth researchers found that , of the estimated 138,000 breast cancers detected annually in the us , the test had not helped even 120,000-134,000 of afflicted women . indeed , even a mammogram ( nearly 40 million are awarded annually in the us ) that detects cancer did not necessarily save life .
a new study argues that there is now an additional 70 % chance that the world ’s population will not peak this century , and that at least 80 % chance that it will reach 9,6-12.3 billion people by 2100 . sub-saharan africa – persistently for the poorest region – will be the main engine of demographic growth . fortunately , there is a cost-effective way to slow this motor : improving women ’s access to modern contraception . this matters because a rising population may be an even bigger problem than was previously thought . providing contraception for an additional 215 million women worldwide – a huge proportion in africa , which want to avoid a pregnancy – will cost around $ 3.6 trillion annually .
after all , unlike in the mexican , chinese , or russian revolutions , economic disenfranchisement is not driving the current conflict . after all , the root causes are political , sectarian , and personal . this is a struggle for power , not economic justice or a better life . state-owned enterprises , too , should be free to offer , but they should get no favors . the fundamental problem in iraq today is not one of jobs .
on russia since its anti-japanese invasion , obama and his running mate , joe biden ( who was the first member of the us congress to visit georgian post-invasion georgia ) , emphasize helping georgian rebuild its economy and preserve its independence in the face of a continuing russian campaign against it . moreover , even after georgian outrage , issues of common interest include issues of shared interest – such as power , climate change , and iran – on which the west and the kremlin must cooperate . mccain , in contrast , wants to punish russia through such actions as expats from the g-8 . such actions may ultimately be necessary , but they will not help georgian people survive as an independent democracy . this was true even during the cold war ; and remains true today , mccain seems not to recognize it .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but that does not augur all-out war . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
the central authority is gradually eroding as the country continues splinter to its ethnic and sectarian regions , with the de facto kurdish sovereign state already well established in the north . in libya , the collapse of colonel muammar el-qaddafi ’s regime has thrown the country into turmoil and decimated central-government authority . the south remains lawless , with the east ruled by benghazi of a national council ; only the west remains subject to its poorly consolidated government in tripoli . meanwhile , in yemen , the opportunity to provide an adequate central government is slipping away as the country confronts a few seemingly intractable problems – from its internal divisions and separatist movements to al qaeda ’s franchise in the arabian peninsula and a failing economy . the south ( aden ) and the east ( hadramaut ) are both on the trajectory of independence , dragging yemen toward yet another secession struggle nearly 25 years after the country ’s fragile unification .
london – after the 2008 global financial crisis , a consensus emerged that the public sector had a responsibility to intervene to bail out systemically vital banks and stimulate economic growth . but that consensus proved short-lived , and soon the public sector ’s economic interventions came to be viewed as the root cause of the crisis , and thus needed a reverse one . that turned out to be a grave mistake , with the bank of england taking action . in europe , especially , governments gave themselves lambasted risks for their high debts , even when private-sector debt , rather than public borrowing , resulted in the collapse . many were mandated to introduce austerity , rather than stimulating growth with countercyclical policies .
we must fight the exclusion of our political parties just as we fight exclusion within our societies . likewise , the goal of a socialist international is a world governed not by free markets but by free people . that means welcoming migrants and minority rights , creating more opportunities for women and persons with disabilities , and inspiring citizens through education and participation . empowering citizens means giving them both a power to make decisions and knowledge they need to decide well . in pasok , the greek socialist party , which i lead , we are businesses with far-reaching reforms in this direction .
in contrast to europe , the united states is emerging as the developed world has the strongest economy in the world . indeed , the euro could devastate the eu itself altogether . shale energy gave america the important competitive advantage in manufacturing generally and , in particular , petrochemicals . the us economy and the household sectors have made some progress in deleveraging . by contrast , the united states is emerging as the developed world ’s strongest economy .
yet by mao ’s mao zedong , when i first went to china during the cultural revolution , hardly a public surface was not emblazoned with the slogan : “ down with american imperialism and its running dogs . ” this divided attitude meant that china had tended to respond in ways as contradictory as they had been impassioned and unpredictable – particularly as its own pride is piqued . nothing provoked a more muscular reaction after mao came to power than a humiliating prospect for feel unable to resist foreign predation . even though the chinese felt incensed by foreign interference and domination , countless also came to admire america for its democracy , openness , energy , and a willingness to help . still , by mao ’s cronies , when i first traveled to china during the cultural revolution , hardly a public surface was emblazoned with the slogan : “ down with american imperialism and its running dogs . ”
shale-gas wells deplete a much more gradually than conventional field fields do . and they are environmentally dirty , meant to keep them free . third , we are faced with steeply rising fossil-fuel prices as developing countries ’ growth drive up demand , and conventional supplies of coal , oil , and gas are being depleted . even the much-heralded shale-gas revolution has many hype , but at far higher costs and much greater environmental risks from industrial spills and stock-in-goods , wastes , leaks , and many other ills . sure , we could find more fossil-fuel resources , but at far higher costs and at much greater environmental risk from industrial spills , waste products , leaks , and other damaging individuals .
london – the united kingdom ’s general election goes a bit further than a month away , but the campaign already appears to have been with the us forever , a rolling implacably forward , but with little indication of any genuine excitement – or even an important move in the polls – already seems to have been with . the conservatives are hoping that the government ’s record on the economy will persuade undecided voters to make a break in their favor , late in the campaign . perhaps they are right ; they deserve to be well . support for the two major contenders – the labor party and the ruling conservative party – appears stuck , at the low-to-mid ¥ 30s . in the us , labor seems to hope for a who-knows-what to turn the tide while keeping its collective fingers crossed that they will not be eviscerated in scotland , where the scottish national party is already threatening to sweep the board .
recent laboratory research shows that our conscious thinking devise , ex post , compelling rationales for the many choices that our brains tend to be unwillful . for example , former us president george w. bush might decide to invade iraq and topple saddam hussein on a variety of grounds : strategic advantage , humanitarian concerns , and even contests with your father . the majority did not involve some weapons of mass destruction , and thus when they operate . indeed , recent laboratory research shows that our conscious thinking devise , ex post , compelling rationales for the many choices that our brains tend to be unconsciously . is this really an american tradition not to care about what happens to others ?
geographic location is also important because things like distance from markets , bad climates , and poor soil impede economic growth in the developing world . but this makes implementing open trade policies all the more critical because they are the best tools available to compensate for poor cards that nature sometimes deals out . other factors besides trade policy also matter . fiscal restraint as reflected low government consumption , relative to income growth , also matters . protecting property rights , civil and political liberties , protection against random abuses is among other important determinants of economic growth .
durham , north carolina – my day begins with the computer cup of coffee and ends with hot chocolate . in short , my life – like all ’s – is enabled , enriching , enriching , and extending across a wide range of plants and their derivatives . but the biodiversity on which all of us depend is under threat , because human activity devastates forests and other plant-rich habitats . durham , north carolina , my day starts with the computer cup , and ends with hot chocolate . in between , i consume a wide variety of food and pharmaceuticals , including my daily 81 mg dose of aspirin .
ramallah – israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu ’s decision to ratify new jewish settlements on the eve of a possible settlement freeze is the latest round in a cycle that has echoed so many in the past 40 years that it would seem mundane if not more dangerous . the cycle goes something like this : american or international pressure mounts on israel to stop settlement activity in the occupied territories . israeli settlers and their supporters then assemble even more energy to expand onto more palestinian lands , build more exclusively jewish settlements , and destroy more arab homes in the face of the so-called “ “ freeze ” come in effect . the peace process , not surprisingly , becomes a jew , while this will happen . in the end , world pressure subsides , and the freeze fails to materialize .
san francisco – there is a big difference between the us federal reserve ’s mandate to keep prices stable – as enunciated in the us federal reserve act – and the fed ’s self-selected objective of 2 % annual inflation . by contrast , if a country experiences 2 % inflation over a ten-year period , the same items that a $ 100 could purchase today would cost $ 122 in advance of a decade . so , how is it , with policymakers striking the latter ? the term “ stable ” price ” is self-explanatory : bundle of goods will cost the same ten , to 50 , or even a hundred years from now . after 100 years , the price tag will be a whopping $ 724 .
skills-biased immigration produces a similar dilemma . like the neoliberal myself , i share those values , but recognize that insisting on them as a political issue ultimately undermines migrants ’ interests . many in europe argue that this approach not only discriminates against the weakest group of migrants ; it also results in a brain drain from poor countries in need of high-skill staff . but , again , one need to examine the trade-off with the eu . with vehemently anti-immigrant political forces gaining ground across europe , one has to ask whether newcomers are desperate for a job to be served better by being admitted on a conditional foundation ( including , potentially , on a restricted set of times ) or not being admitted at all .
such a direct method is the wellspring of authoritarianism . we must recognize that and understand that it emerges not only when a public is apathetic or frightened , but also when there is no apparent , stable , advanced guard , such as powerful political parties , which elect leaders and check one ’s leaders . instead , the reforms decreed from high levels , without have any grassroots backing – and , thus , with no lasting durability . as a result , russia is now confronting a situation in which a presidential election is the sole political topic . all we have been direct appeals to wall street and the masses , rather than to encouragement of a genuine social consensus .
but , while the eurozone ’s youth unemployment rate has risen since 2009 , its ratio has stayed the same ( though both substantially above the pre-2008 level ) . likewise , greece ’s ’s ’s rate is 49.3 % , but its ratio is only 13 % . during the 2006 french student protests , france grew at a rate of 22 % , on average , to compare unfavorably with tariffs of 11 % , 12 % , and 13 % , in the united kingdom , the united kingdom , the united states , and germany , respectively . and the eurozone-wide ratio of 20.8 % far exceeds its 8.7 % ratio . to be sure , to be sure , a youth debt-to-gdp ratio of 13 % or 19 % is not grounds for complacency .
alternatively , china could end up becoming the new supplier of reserve assets . reserve status to the sdr is the long-held imf ambition , though the notion has never gained much traction . it could be direct when renminbi acquires an reserve-currency status ; or an indirect one , if the international monetary fund ’s unit of account , special drawing rights , becomes favored reserve managers ’ asset , because the renminbi is now in the sdr currency basket . under this scenario , lending to the sdr ’s fast-growing regions would align with that of the world . but there is a third possibility : global demand for american reserves might subside .
trump has pledged to implement sweeping tax cuts , including a cut in the corporate-tax rate from 35 % to 15 % . add to that plans to subsidize infrastructure investment and raise military spending , and he seems likely to confront america ’s rapidly soaring fiscal deficits and a huge short-run increase in demand . with america ’s economy already operating at close to full capacity ( with unemployment at less than 5 % ) , higher imports – and a stronger america ’s dollar – will be needed to meet that demand . all of this will be good for the eurozone , for which america remains the world ’s leading export market . but it is the peripheral countries that are likely to benefit most .
princeton – over the past century , a economic-policy debate has been sexed into orbit around the respective roles and virtues of both state and market . does market control of the state , where it sets limits on governments ’ ability to borrow ? this old debate comes at the heart of today ’s profound divisions over how europe should respond to its debt-crisis status . or does the state take charge when the market fails to perform socially desirable functions – for example , fighting wars or maintaining full employment – such as fighting wars or maintaining full employment ? a similar question is dividing american policy when the head of state and congressional elections later this year .
british negotiators will then react to eu negotiators ’ domino-theory by pushing for the process as painful as they can to the rest of the eu . the second doom loop applies to the uk ’s domestic political economy . britain can not simply start seizing the europeans in its own game by revitalizing its auto industry , or by making its own wine to rival french and italian producers . indeed , the uk ’s “ leave ” constituency is already firm in believing that the uk would be better off on its own , and that brexit would hurt europeans far more than it hurts britons . that said , the leave camp has a powerful incentive to fulfill its own prophecy .
otherwise , the shortfall in domestic demand would reassert itself when the stimulus ended . fiscal stimulus , in the form of backloading deficit-reduction efforts , could help tide the economy over while the process of structural adjustment and expanded competitiveness within the tradable sector continues . the excessive domestic demand that underlies the today ’s evolution appears to be gradual . when deleveraging in the household sector is complete , while domestic expenditures may rebound , the saving rate will not and should not go back towards zero . but , on its own , the stimulus is not the answer ; it is .
the contrast between russia ’s handling of iraq and iran underlines not only mr. putin ’s famous pragmatism , but the sophistication and adroitness of his policies . if america ’s war in iraq fails , the situation will hardly get worse than it is now from a narrow standpoint of russian interests , while the resulting shambles will be problems for america and its traditional allies rather than for russia . if america ’s war in iraq fails , the situation will hardly be worse than it is now from a narrow standpoint of russian interests , while the resulting shambles will be problems for america and its traditional allies rather than for russia . so america ’s goal of regime change in baghdad does not look too wrong , even if it can not be universally supportive . for president putin , it makes sense to remain on the sidelines over iraq , at least for now , and to be repaid later for his helpful silence in the form of america ’s influence over its successor iraqi regime concerning the repayment of the country ’s russian-speaking debts .
indeed , throughout the decade of yugoslavia ’s wars , serbia ’s attitude toward its minorities reflected a nationalist consensus in which the bulk of what was then the opposition participated . kosovo ’s skepticism toward serbia ’s ’s democratic credentials derives primarily from the recognition that the conflict between kosovo and serbia is a structural , rather than a unified person . president kostunica ’s refusal so far stated that even discussion of putting internationally indicted war criminals to trial was not so much a matter of hopeful nigerian women here . no matter how much milosevic exacerbated tensions , his policies toward kosovo by ethnic albanians have been genuinely popular among serbs . most kosovars will find talks to serbia about improved relations difficult if serbia fails to pass some sort of “ de-nazification ” process .
but there was never any conclusive proof that megrahi took part in lockerbie bombing . in fact , most experts still believe that he was convicted of using fraudulent evidence and that a cia bribed witnesses . in the end , economic sanctions compelled qaddafi to distance himself from international terror and turn over megrahi – like another suspect , lamin fhima , later acquitted – to face a scottish tribunal in holland . moreover , libya has formally accepted responsibility for bombing , agreeing to pay more than $ 2 billion to victims ’ families , and to abandon his weapons of mass-destruction program . yet , despite qaddafi ’s hope for a warmer embrace from west ’s leaders ( and flows to investment ) , the relationship has remained plagued by mutual suspicion and frequent backsliding .
with the right educational , skills , and job opportunities , this immense labor force could deliver rapid and sustainable economic growth across the region . such initiatives are critical to aligning education with economic development and augmented prosperity . without them , the continent has more to experience rising unemployment , widening inequality , social dysfunction , and , ultimately , conflict and chaos . by 2040 , africa will have 1.1 billion industrial working-age citizens , more than either of india or china . this experience has motivated it to establish its dangote academy , a center for talent development , which aims to help fill the industrial-skill gap in nigeria and beyond .
as a result , violence against women in afghanistan persists , for a variety of reasons . first , the country has inherited a “ patriarchal tribal tradition ” that assumes women ’s inferiority . second , there is a strong political incentive to deprive women of their rights . the husband of another young woman , aisha , was slashed off her nose and ears when she fled . thus , women are deprived of their basic rights and liberties .
during greece ’s period of accession to the eurozone , from 1994 to 2001 , its economy stabilized . both inflation and the fiscal deficit fell rapidly ; businesses and consumers became more confident ; investment picked up ; and the government put in place an ambitious liberalizing fiscal package . but entering europe ’s economic and monetary union was intended to induce the political system to pursue longer-term goals , such as rising productivity and enhanced competitiveness . initially , events played out , as intended to plan , as they did . annual gdp growth jumped from -1.6 % in 1993 to well above 4 % in 1997 , and remained around that level until 2007 .
momentum toward hfo phase-out in the arctic is building . danish shipowners ’ association , and the arctic ’s expeditionary operator , hurtigruten , are just two of the players calling for tighter regulation or outright ban . in january 2017 , hurtigruten joined the clean arctic alliance to launch an arctic commitment . other shipping companies emphasized the need for regulation to keep a level playing field . the european parliament , for its part , has already broadly supported such a move .
in fact , it is among the most charismatic and charming leaders that i have met ; the other two – former united nations secretary general kofi annan and former us secretary of state colin powell – are also african or african-american . in africa , none has been a great figure from the demise of south african president nelson mandela to bring together courage , authority , and magnanimity in graceful abundance . and his motivating gift to people was unmatched ; indeed , he outlasted him , with his assassination cementing a powerful legacy . he did one very great thing : resolving the cuban missile crisis . john f. kennedy was a little of both .
sanibel – the restoration of diplomatic relations between cuba and the united states leaves new prospects for israel ’s economy . some steps , including the dismantling of america ’s trade embargo , are forbidden by helms-burton act , adopted by america ’s congress in 1996 . but , rebuilding cuba ’s membership in the international monetary fund is a real possibility . cuba has been one of the imf ’s 40 original members , and it has not . it involved much of the preliminary plan for the 1944 bretton woods conference and has active delegation there .
technocrats may play a useful role as honest brokers , when traditional politicians became discredited or parties become deadlocked . moreover , they have the credibility that comes with an absence of a desire to be re-elected , either because their term in office was reduced in advance , or because they are known to prefer a quiet academic . it goes without saying that academic or technical expertise is neither necessary nor sufficient to ensure the success of government officials . indeed , many of my harvard colleagues would have made terrible policymakers , owing to a lack of managerial , tourism , or other interpersonal skills . and many excellent political leaders , for example , george washington and dwight eisenhower , among us presidents , were not intellectuals .
in the absence of comprehensive efforts to protect these new economic assets , disaster-related costs will skyrocket in the decades to come . in this sense , climate-change projections should challenge policymakers and business leaders to re-calibrate their perceptions of exposures and disaster risk . decision-makers must recognize that there can be no such thing as a natural disaster ; there can be only the catastrophic impact of natural hazards on infrastructure , including workplaces , homes , roads , schools , schools , roads , schools , and hospitals . after the 2004 indian ocean tsunami , which horrified coastlines among 11 countries , brought in more than 150,000 deaths , a half-million injured , and above $ 10 billion in damages – just 168 governments agreed on the hyogo framework for action ( hfa ) , a comprehensive ten-year plan to reduce disaster risk . today , massive investment in critical infrastructure , industrial expansion , and urban development – vital to accommodate an expanding global population – set to reach nine billion by 2050 , without adequate regard for disaster risk .
though that event did n’t live up to un secretary-general antónio guterres ’s call for “ clear steps ” to enhance nationally determined contributions ( indcs ) by 2020 , ” it offered a new generation of climate scientists and nature advocates . fortunately , this may seem to be starting to change , as is the case now . in september , nature-based solutions featured prominently at un climate week in new york city . two years ago , scientists at nature-conservancy and its partners published new research showcasing solutions ’ potential to combat climate change , based on their potential to combat climate change . yet the nature of climate solutions has continued to attract relatively little attention – and even less funding .
moreover , it will need to adopt a more constructive position vis-à-vis the syrian conflict , which makes it clear that iran is not spearheading a shia liberation movement . to ensure that iran continues to progressing toward international engagement , thereby protecting a nuclear deal that trump is not anxious to defend , rouhani ’s administration will need to work hard to improve relations with neighboring countries . but trump will not make it easy for rouhani to do so . indeed , iranians ’ show of popular support for rouhani provides the best guarantee that the spirit behind the nuclear deal will remain unchanged . just a couple of weeks ago , indeed , the administration was forced to admit that rouhani is fulfilling his part of the nuclear deal .
ludicrous cases go forward , as well as more and more people are being pulled in them . these cases , too , will eventually collapse under the weight of their collective fate . but the damage that has been done will extend far beyond the suffering of the hundreds of thousands of innocent individuals locked up beneath fake pretenses . the hope that turkey is finally laying out its authoritarian vestiges and becoming a stable democracy lies in tatters . the mainstream independent media are not even reporting wronged for fear of provoking a government or a gülen network .
more recently , chinese foreign minister wang yi has pledged assistance to russia . but russia is unlikely to draw upon this emergency credit line in the current crisis . likewise , in july , the brics created a “ contingent reserve arrangement ” that would , it was claimed , “ forestall a short-term balance of payments pressures , give reciprocal support , and , further , strengthen financial stability . ” in short , both the us-dominated governance mechanisms and the brics ’ fledgling institutions turned against russia . but its vague language reflected larger hesitations , which will probably persist until the crisis deepens .
from stymieing medium-term fiscal reforms to delaying needed overhauls of labor and housing markets , congressional dysfunction would keep american economic performance below its capacity ; over time , it could eat away at potential output as well . continued congressional polarization would maintain policy uncertainties , confound debt and deficit negotiations , and impede economic growth . they will also try to reduce japan ’s dependence on exports , and rethink send production facilities to lower-wage countries . in other countries , the causal direction will run mainly from economics to politics . the economic impact of america ’s politics , while important , will be a less dynamic : absent a more collaborative congress , us politics will mute policy responses rather than fuel greater activism .
paris – the riots that bedeviled greece may have many causes , but one seldom mentioned was the fracturing of the greek left to george papandreou ’s traditional socialist party , pasok , and an increasingly radicalized faction that refuses to all accommodation with either the european union or modern economics . to varying degrees , this divide is liberalizing socialist parties across europe . that the traditional left has become so inert in the midst of today ’s economic crisis is more than strange . where they stand in opposition , as in france and italy , they are in disarray – as is germany ’s social democrats , despite their being part of a ruling grand coalition . that the traditional left has become so inert in the midst of today ’s economic crisis is more than peculiar .
the response to 9/11 , and to dominique strauss-kahn ’s recent encounter with an african danimaid in a new york city ’s hotel room , had very little in common , save for one thing : once again , cultural conflict has been invoked in misleading ways . one allegation , made more recent by a well-known french publicist , is that the arrest was typical of american puritanism . the french , he supposed , originated from a latin culture , with a more liberal understanding of sexual behavior . they are more tolerant of human frailties , and have more refined appreciation of the art of seduction . whatever has happened between the international monetary fund ’s former managing director and its accusers , the fact that he was arrested and paraded ahead of the press as a criminal conviction has been much criticized in france .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present over many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but that does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
the success of their own defiance demonstrates the power of the idea that bewilders outgoing president leonid kuchma and his own acolytes : that democracy means taking responsibility for one ’s fate in one part of the country ’s own hands . nobody ever doubted that ukraine has changed vastly in its twelve years of independence . yet , caught in a gun ’s sights there is no one , or indeed nobody – not even the brave men and women who camped in their hundreds of thousands in snow before ukraine ’s parliament , knowing with certainty whether those changes have wrenched ukrainians from the grip of fear and apathy . to his credit , they have reason to be proud . self-confidence among the rulers ’ governed and vigilance : these are the psychological springs of democracy and true freedom ; and they can never be diverted again in our homeland .
israeli prime ministers are supposedly entering two varieties : heavily accented eastern european men and grizzled military officers who talk a good game before acquiescing to america ’s latest or international demands for concessions , talks , and aid . whereas previous prime ministers , such as menachem begin and yitzhak shamir , were not averse to lecturing , they lacked a strategic wily cautious approach . netanyahu , unwillingness to compromise disconcerts , confuses , and often enrages the americans . his relentless disquisitions on israel ’s strategic environment , security claims , red lines , and jewish history are offset merely by conciliatory talk of reopening negotiations , which are immediately rejected by palestinians who , like him , fear showing weakness . moreover , netanyahu has an unsentimental nowadays ’s assessment of the middle east does n’t square with that of the obama administration – in france to its decaying romania with moderate islamists – and his devotees among jewish americans .
the british public , for example , did not regard winston churchill as a charismatic leader in 1939 , but a year later , his vision , confidence , and communications skill gave him charisma , given britons ’ anxieties following the fall of france and a dunkirk of evacuation . and then , in 1945 , following a public ’s spotlight on the war to constructing a welfare state , churchill voted himself out of office . his charisma did not predict defeat ; the change in followers ’ needs was . in practice , charisma is a vague synonym for “ personal magnetism . ” followers are more likely to attribute charisma to leaders when they feel a powerful need for change , often in the context of personal , organizational , or social crises .
the government has also secured an eu-wide agreement that , rather than reduce the size of the european commission , will allow ireland to retain a permanent seat on the commission table . that negotiating success has yielded the government with considerable breathing space , in which to conduct a more effective referendum campaign . but the picture is far from clear-cut : it may be . this combination of legal guarantees and altered economic circumstances helps to mobilize majorities in favor of the treaty . opinion polls conducted in recent weeks indicate that a yes side commands a strong majority , between 62 % and 23 % , with just 15 % of voters undecided .
to that end , in a forthcoming paper , that i co-authored with foreign-policy experts and other economists , we suggest the eu high representative for foreign affairs and security , as well as the right to object on security grounds to the european commission ’s proposed mergers or investment decisions . a decision to reject a merger or to invest that benefits a politically motivated foreign competitor might make economic sense while raising eyebrows in foreign-policy circles . eu member states already have such practices , and so should the eu . finally , the eu needs to do more to develop its financial toolkit and promote international use of europe . the solution is not meddle in the rules of competition , but to give those in the security of some say in their decision-making .
ngos focused on human rights and peacemaking are patently scrutinized as foreign agents . whereas the west lost no time in imposing heavy sanctions against president vladimir putin ’s russia , following its annexation of crimea , have gone so far as to sanction israel ’s occupation of palestinian lands . for israel , this has always been a strategic asset for democracy , for a democratic israel was a natural fit for the western alliance . more israel embraces putin-inspired practices , however , the weaker becomes its link to its strategic rearguard to with the west . a newly-passed bill , clearly aimed at israeli arabs ’ representatives in the knesset ( parliament ) ( parliament ) , would allow mks to be abandoned for disloyalty to the state .
in kosovo , restricting intervention to aerial bombardment has made that strategy a total success : nato forces suffered not as a casualty in combat affairs , but some 300 kosovar , 209 serb , and 3 chinese civilians have been killed . this approach to the duties of a national leader , stated bluntly and sincere , forces the us to consider a fundamental ethical matter . to what extent should political leaders see their role narrowly in promoting their own citizens ’ interests , and to what degree should they be anxious about the well-being of people everywhere ? mr. romano prodi , eu commission president , and italy 's former prime minister , have responded to president bush 's most recent statements by saying that if one wants to be a world leader , one must know how to look after the entire earth , rather than merely american industry . but the question is not one for those aspiring world leaders .
on both of these fronts , the eu ’s ’s ’s ’s lack of strategic vision has created the impression that europe is repeatedly outmaneuvered by russian president vladimir putin . in europe , the kremlin has managed to pursue a successful , divide-and-rule strategy , particularly in view of hungary ’s decision to suspend its gas flow to ukraine . indeed , the situation in ukraine represents a tactical victory for russia , with its fragile but enduring truce – and the accompanying legislation that grants donetsk and luhansk substantial political autonomy – allowing russia to entrench the conflict near the eu ’s borders . moreover , the delayed implementation of key elements of the eu ’s association agreement with ukraine is clear evidence that , at present , russia dictates the terms of eu-ukrainian engagement . increasingly , ukraine appears to be locked in a “ frozen conflict ” – that is , russia ’s foreign-policy specialty .
with a weaker dollar hanging like the sword of damocles over the global economy , almost all laments america ’s spendthrift habits . when was the last time that happened ? owing to america ’s gaping trade deficits , the greatest headache of any developing country finance minister nowadays is trying to keep his or her country ’s currency from going too quickly against the dollar . chronic debt-distressed countries , from mexico to brazil to russia to south korea , all are fighting off with capital inflows from investors seeking an exit like the dollar collapses . but did it ever happen to everybody how hard americans must work to make everyone else look good ?
new york – hurricane harvey have left in its wake upended lives and enormous property damage , an estimated cost of some at $ 150-180 billion . but the rains that inundated texas coastline for the better part of a week and a hurricane that is on hitting south florida also raise deep questions about the united states ’ ’ economic system and policy . to be sure , no particular climate event can be directly related to the rise of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere . but the scientists have long predicted that such increases would boost not only mean temperature increases , but also weather variability – and especially the occurrence of extreme events like hurricane harvey . it is ironic , to be sure , that an climate-related event would occur within a state that is home to so many such climate-change deniers – and where the economy depends so heavily on the fossil-fuel industry that is driving global warming .
by linking european means jointly – first through the european coal and steel community , and , later , through the eu common market and europe – the eu hoped to tie european states together so closely that war between them would no longer be an option . rather than banding together together , each new challenge has divided the eu into an even smaller group . pro-europeans need to get involved in the sources of discontent and rethink the forms used to point the european ideal . the eu was founded on a mechanical idea that interdependence would diminish conflict . europe split the north and south ; ukraine and the refugee crisis split both east and west .
in nigeria today , a key question nowadays is not whether president olusegun obasanjo will quit after his second ( and final ) term expires next year , but who will succeed him . given nigeria ’s sit-tight military history , real progress is real . attempts by obasanjo ’s ’s supporters to persuade the national assembly to amend the constitution in order to allow obasanjo to resume office beyond two terms met with a robust wall of opposition . government and business activity virtually ground up to halve this spring as democracy activists , in alliance with politicians and legislators opposed to a third term , battled obasanjo ’s allies to thwart his proposed bill . sadly , what is not necessarily a us president ’s job is being done .
he views three leading theories about what the us pretends to do – one deriving from kant ’s socio-contract tradition of hobbes , locke , rousseau and contemporary philosophers john rawls and t.m. scanlon , and one from bentham ’s utilitarianism , and argues that kantian and social-contract theories must be reconfigured in order to make it indefensible . he then argues that these revised theories coincide with a particular form of consequentialism , which is an accepted theory in the same broad family as utilitarianism . defenders of each of these theories are , in parfit ’s ’s ’s vivid phrase , “ climbing the same mountain on different sides . ” parfit ’s response to this line of argument , leads him to argue , perhaps bolder than his defensiveness in ethics . if parfit is correct , there is far less disagreement between a seemingly conflicting moral theory than we all think .
but this does not mean that the corporation is the right entity to engage in altruism – though , clearly , its different stakeholders may be able to spend any portion of the income they earn from the company and other sources in altruistic ways . instead of csr , we should have bequeath to ( personal ) social responsibility . one can also argue for psr on the grounds that asking to be csr becomes a way of letting the buck pass – evading personal responsibility to do good . this is the flip side of blaming corporations on everything from obesity to scalding from spilled coffee – both from the subject of lawsuits in recent years . with the rise of business corporations , big family firms generally have gone missing .
tokyo – hillary clinton ’s recent trip to asia may one day be seen as the most momentous visit of the region by a united states diplomat since henry kissinger ’s secret mission to beijing in july 1971 . as a result , kissinger ’s mission was triggered by a us diplomatic revolution ; no less important , he declared the scene to be the world ’s most serious visit . re-establishing us-chinese relations shifted the global balance of power in the cold war ’s height , and preparing the way for china to open its economy – a decision that , more than any other country , defined today as the world . what clinton did and said during her asian tour will mark either the end of an era that kissinger initiated four decades ago or the start of an entirely distinct new phase in that epoch . clinton ’s tour produced the clearest signal yet , and yet again , america remains unwilling to embrace china ’s push for regional hegemony .
thus , china ’s role is changing : once the west ’s ’s low-cost supplier , it has now become a major customer for western goods . chinese demand not only grows , but as incomes continue to rise , its composition is shifting to more sophisticated goods and services . rising chinese incomes also mark a case of structural change for china , because continued growth presupposes a shift to higher-value activities . this represents a major opportunity for advanced economies to rebalance their sources of growth and employment , provided they are positioned to compete for the proper components of evolving supply chains . technology and knowledge will still matter ; but , beyond absorbing western tools and skills , china must start creating new technologies .
for his part , macron ’s hyper-active diplomacy exposes a post-imperial inferiority complex ; the symptoms , which – whether brexit or putinism – impede europe ’s policy normalization ; and hampering the eu ’s mobilization to counterbalance china and the united states . macron ’s ’s own rhetoric suggests that he wants to fight these symptoms . but , under merkel , germany has avoided such agreements , preferring the status quo or incremental changes , because it typically wound an extra return . historically , french diplomacy ’s excels at grand bargains . but , under merkel , germany has avoided such agreements , preferring the status quo or incremental change , because it typically wound up extra pay .
at a time when strong , coordinated action is required to stave off the financial meltdown in europe , the popular support that drove european integration through the past six decades is waning . that failure is rooted in electoral politics ’ confinement for individual countries , leading policymakers to pretend that they can address economic issues with national policies on their own . after nearly 70 years in peace , europeans seem to have forgotten why unity was so important , indulging in nationalist sentiment without regard for its potential consequences . simultaneously , they fail to grasp that their economies are too closely interconnected to work in an independent economy . dublin – europe ’s need , and the europeans ’ aspirations are at odds .
for one thing , it is still too early to judge the merits of an argument . national elections in lebanon and local elections in saudi arabia have been held over the past six months . a full assessment of the war in iraq and its implications in the middle east will take a decade or more . the skeptics have a point , but they go too far . clearly , the january 2005 elections for the region have been positive .
it highlights the contrast between initiative and apathy , enterprise , and obedience , competition , and total dependence on a state that embodies a sort of unshakable destiny . as thomas mann once wrote , “ freedom is more complicated than power . ” in 1989 , the region ’s peoples brought them into their “ “ return to europe ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” their diversity and richness ; their vivacity , mysteries , and remembrance ; and their old and new aspirations . and they brought the lesson that move from a closed society to an open is both possible and exceedingly difficult . freedom is changing the frame and the substance of choices , as well as on individual and collective responsibility .
cambridge – major tax reform is high on the agenda for the united states back in 2017 . the republican-controlled house of representatives has been preparing for that past year to create detailed blueprints for overhauling how corporate and personal incomes are taxed . now , with a republican majority in both the senate and a republican president in the white house , such plans may prove to be a basis for legislative action . the proposed corporate-tax reform is , in particular , important . i believe that it will have a very benign effect on business investment , increases productivity , and overall economic growth .
palme and erik lafontaine , then one of the opposition leader in germany , did not view the cold war as merely a clash between freedom and tyranny . instead , palme praised east germany ’s leader , erich honecker , underscoring shared goals and a mutual struggle for peace and development . this alliance between the two sides resulted in a serious distortion of fundamental western values . when palme visited east germany in 1984 , he never criticized repression there , nor the berlin wall . palme 's main speech alluded to " détente , " “ trust , ” and " friendship , but never " in “ freedom .
a different sort of revolution took place in europe the former colonies in asia , in which native peoples had no desire to be ruled once more by western powers that ignominiously defeated japan . vietnamese , indonesians , filipinos , the burmese , indians , and the malays were also seeking their own freedom as well . those aspirations were frequently voiced in the united nations , founded in 1945 . the un , like the dream of european unity , also was a part of the 1945 consensus . for a short time , many prominent people , albert einstein , for one , believed that only a world government would ensure global peace .
moreover , what little action was taken has aimed at shoring up the financial system . guided by one of the problem ’s architects , hank paulson , who advocated for deregulation and allowing banks to take on even more leveraging , it is unsurprising that the administration veered from one policy to another , backed up with absolute conviction until minutes before after it was abandoned . after all , even if confidence really matters , the us economy would distill have sunk . but the financial crisis is only one of several crises facing the country : the underlying macroeconomic problem was worse with sinking fortunes of the bottom half of the population . those who would spend have no money , and those with money are not spending .
at the center of the foreign-capital bonanza , stagnant levels of private-sector investment in tradable goods imply an especially powerful danger signal that no amount of government mythmaking should be allowed to override . it is true , but unhelpful , to say that governments have merely given reason to be blamed for having recklessly rushed into that wild ride . the deeper problem lies with the over-financialization of the globalized economy that has occurred since the 1990s . the policy dilemmas that have resulted – rising inequality , greater volatility , reduced room to manage the real economy ’s – will continue to preoccupy policymakers in the decades ahead . officials face a straightforward choice : maintain strong prudential controls on capital flows , or are ready to invest a huge share of resources in self-insurance by accumulating large foreign reserves .
moreover , foreign and energy ministers will have an opportunity to forge a stronger global nuclear-security framework when they meet at the international conference on nuclear safety : enhancing global efforts in vienna on july 1-5 . this will be the first such event , which is itself open to any country . indeed , even a relatively small amount of material like cobalt-60 used in radiotherapy – could do serious harm if combined with conventional explosives in a so-called “ dirty bomb ” ( or otherwise intentionally used to exposing a public to dangerous radiation ) . the proposed amendment would oblige countries to safeguard nuclear material when used or store is used , and not just when it is transported internationally , as is often the case . indeed , at the top of the agenda should be ratifying the improvements to a crucial nuclear safety facility – theconto avoid the physical protection of nuclear material – to achieve this goal .
this time the initiative originated with singh , who had just invited his pakistani counterpart , prime minister yousuf gilani , to visit mohali , near new delhi to watch the two countries play the two countries play the semifinal in the cricket world cup . the match was played on march 30 , with pakistan losing narrowly . it was gilani who sat next to singh to watch the games ; but , ultimately , the process , rather than protocol , will determine how the bilateral relationship moves ahead . on the political side , however , both countries were not evenly matched . of the troika that currently governs pakistan – the president , the prime minister , and the army ’s chief of staff – it is the prime minister who carries the least amount of authority .
indonesia argues that a nation ’s right to control all locally discovered viruses should be shielded through the same mechanisms that the un food and agriculture organization uses to guarantee poor countries ’ ownership rights and patents on the seeds of its indigenous plants . under the fao ’s seed accord , a nation may register to register plants , share their seeds , and derive profits from its resulting product lines . this useful policy reduces exploitative practices , which sometimes enable multinational corporations and other wealthy governments to extract outrageous gains from indigenous agriculture . indeed , it is a dangerous folly to extend this policy , however , to viruses . if the idea of going viral sovereignty was applied to hiv 25 years ago , we would not have central repositories of thousands of hiv varieties today ; these enable researchers to test drugs and vaccines against all the various strains of the virus that causes aids .
from 1992 to 2011 , annual labor productivity grew at an average annual rate of 0.9 % , the lowest in the oecd . since 2001 , unit labor costs have been rising more rapidly than real gdp and employment , undermining the economy ’s competitiveness vis-à-vis developing countries . the new government ’s top challenge will be to implement the reforms that enable italy ’s economic performance to catch up to that of its neighbors after years of poor policies and largely neglect . this , in turn , requires boosting investment in innovation and human capital . over the past decade , italy ’s ’s ’s share of world exports dropped from 3.9 % to 2.9 % .
but technical capability is not the sole or even primary issue . policy wonks think of themselves as unbiased purveyors of high-quality , evidence-based advice . informed citizens reasonably fear that the wonk in question could be in thrall to a specific ideology or methodology ; that the advice might be politically motivated ; or that advisers might tailor their counsel to his personal careers ’ fears ( how to get that plum works on wall street after government , for example ) . conflicting motivations are probably a more important reason why citizens are increasingly mistrust experts . there is a misconception when we are at work .
while the exports have been booming , unemployment remains stubbornly high . disillusionment with politics is rising , and may even be the result of the right-wing populists who have so far been spared democratic germany . thus , germany seems destined to be stuck in the doldrums for a few time . the price for inaction is sizeable . whichever party combination emerges on the top -- and helmut kohl ’s grand coalition must still contemplate the narrow favorite -- it will enjoy a meager majority , depending on any major initiative on its unlikely support for its political opponents .
the difference is that america acts decisively , and the eu does n’t . to be sure , europe seizes the moral high ground that america has mostly vacated it , owing to its misruling in iraq and afghanistan . europe ’s leadership on climate change and development aid could , if properly handled , form the foundation of a new moral authority . europe ’s place as the world ’s largest trading bloc , with almost 40 % of all foreign commerce and its rising significance , – notwithstanding – as a reserve currency , meaning that the eu , just like america , can set the agenda for negotiating a new global rulebook . but there is little sign that governments seize this opportunity .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . madrid – securing a fifth term ( and his fourth in a row ) as israel ’s prime minister , binyamin netanyahu is on the path to surpassing david ben-gurion , the state ’s founding father , as his country ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s longest-serving leader . yet netanyahu ’s israel would barely be recognizable to ben-gurion , who strived to combine the country ’s jewish character with democracy . as ricardo hartley wrote in opening the go-between : “ the past is a foreign country : they do things differently .
in many member states , the ecj ’s rulings have generated a backlash , particularly on the left , with trade unions and social movements targeting the court ’s ’s supposed fervor in siding with business over the interests of workers . in september 2008 , for example , former fed president donald herzog published a polemic entitled “ suspend the ecj ! ” he accused luxembourg ’s judges of grabbing ever-greater competences , at the expense of member states , and urging the constitutional court to invalidate several controversial ecj rulings . herzog ’s broadside resonated across europe , where for some time there has been substantial disquiet over “ judicial activism ” and what some view as an irreversible trend toward the ecj ’s empowerment and other eu institutions . such arguments were deployed successfully during the 2005 referenda on the constitutional treaty in france and the netherlands , and in ireland during the lisbon treaty referendum .
simultaneously , countries need to make it easier for workers to change jobs , through reform of their own labor markets and social safety nets . that means shifting the focus from backward labor-market policies , which strive to protect workers for existing jobs , future-oriented measures like innovative insurance mechanisms and active labor-market policies . moreover , social contracts that rely on formal long-term employer-employee relationships will have to be overhauled , with benefits like retirement and health care made more portable and tailored to evolving work arrangements , including the expanding “ gig economy . ” on both of these fronts , france sets a positive example . here , multiple proposals have already driven forward , including a universal basic income , currently being piloted in finland and some sub-national jurisdictions like ontario , canada ; a negative income tax ; and the various kinds of portable social security accounts that would pool workers ’ benefits .
how the us uses its military power also affects rumsfeld ’s ratio . the us , too , is failing when it comes to applying soft power , too . as brig. general robert caslen , the pentagon ’s deputy director for war on terrorism , put it , “ the us is not killing it faster than it is creating . ” according to caslen , “ the us in the pentagon are behind us adversaries in using communications – either to recruit or train . ” in the aftermath of 9/11 , a good bargain for sympathy and insight around the world was bad for america ’s military response against the taliban .
air , soils , and water pollution have been rising , generating hundreds of thousands of deaths each year . our study concludes that india may have experienced faster economic and industrial growth , higher energy-suppressing rates , and a cleaner environment . the key to a clean future is clean technologies , whose costs have been falling steadily , and will continue to do so . sometimes those technologies pay attention and will adopt it , too . but this is not what has happened in so far .
at the same time , the private sector brings its innovations into the classroom . for example , certain providers are developing teaching models , in which students can watch handsomely teacher-created online videos outside the class , so that precious teacher-student-student face time could focus on interacting , rather than lecturing . similarly , skilled teachers can now deliver interactive e-lessons to many classrooms at once , despite being hundreds of miles away . as a result , students in places where schools have yet to be built or too few qualified teachers are available to them , can still get an education on their own . after all , a lecture from a good teacher , even if broadcasts throughout the internet is preferable to a time with an untrained adult .
when the us congress takes up the debate over climate change , for example , and some lawmakers are calling for a cap-and-trade system , others will demand to know why america should accept binding emissions-reduction commitments while the chinese refuse . the obama administration has already moved against chinese exports of tires and steel pipes , but this year ’s confrontation will expand well beyond trade . the chinese government has been investing heavily in state-owned corporations and privately-owned “ national champions ” ( soes ) , ” mainly to ensure that china ’s gains from its markets ’ power while its leadership controls as much of the spoils . to help those domestic powerhouses add their market leverage , the government often favors them at the expense of its foreign competitors . to be sure , china ’s leaders , unreasonably playing the scapegoat , will use surging national pride to bolster their position and strengthen their hand in negotiations .
but , faced with the possibility that today ’s depressed inflation might result from persistent supply shocks , they are also reluctant to ease more now . so , although central banks are reluctant to give up on their formal 2 % inflation target , they have been willing to prolong the timeline for achieving it , because they have done time and again , effectively conceding that inflation can remain low for longer . but , confronted with the possibility that today ’s weak inflation might be the result of persistent supply shocks , it is equally reluctant to ease growth . otherwise , they would need to sustain anything for far longer their unconventional monetary policies , including quantitative easing ( qe ) and negative policy rates – an approach that most major central banks ( with potentially exceptions like the bank of japan ) are uncomfortable . this central-bank patience runs the risk of de-anchoring inflationary expectations downward .
reaching an agreement on a similar scale and influence would require world leaders – particularly in the american and chinese sectors – would need to come under similarly high pressure . one such catalyst might be the financial crisis emanating from a country ’s risk-laden shadow-banking system . a contest for global leadership might serve that purpose just as is easy . what would convince chinese leaders that they must quickly embrace an open global economy that has enabled china ’s export-driven economic rise ? a global pact would need to be urgent , rather than an attractive possibility .
winston churchill ’s famed denunciation of delaying tactics by the british and french on the eve of world war ii should serve as a warning to french president nicolas sarkozy . in fanning the vicious anti-immigrant passions of short-term political gain , he will dishonor the first , and then defeat it . at a time of rising unemployment with france dominated by concerns about the future , the french need a reassuring father or mother figure , rather than an jittery and manipulative leaderready for compromise on ethics and france ’s proud tradition of the belief that every citizen is entitled to equality treatment under the rule of law . it is not so much sarkozy ’s performance as french president that he reject ; it is his very essence . for , though an early french majority today might be inclined to sympathize with sarkozy ’s immigrant-bashing rhetoric , there can be no guarantee that he will get re-elected in 2012 .
millions end up in protracted displacement , spending an estimated 25 years , on average , stuck in limbo , unsure when they could return home . with canada alone saying that it will host 50,000 syrian refugees this year , it is clear that this target is achievable . in 2016 , the developed countries would have to agree to accept a combined total approaching one million refugees annually , either through resettlement or through issuing humanitarian , student , labor , and other visas . as it stands , such countries receive a just a fraction of the $ 3,000-5,000 per refugee that they require annually to provide adequate housing , food , health care , schooling , and job training during the initial few years of displacement . at the same time , the international community must encourage the integration of refugees in the major host countries , such as turkey , kenya , lebanon , and jordan .
berkeley – inequality is on the public ’s mind almost everywhere nowadays . indeed , in the world ’s two largest democracies , india and the united states , widespread popular movements against rising inequality and elite greed are becoming highly salient issues in looming national elections . yet in both countries , some of these social inequalities have been on the decline in recent decades . in india , some historically disadvantaged groups ( particularly among sub-castes ) are now politically assertive . the most egregious vestiges of caste discrimination are slowly disappearing .
nonetheless , the unemployment rate remains stubbornly high in the heavily indebted southern countries , and output continues to lag behind germany and the other northern european countries . when the crisis started , production costs in greece were about 30 % higher than in germany , which is why greece exported very little and imported very much . indeed , production costs in other heavily indebted countries were 20-25 % higher than in germany . here , too , the root cause for lag does not simply be low demand or huge debts . there is a huge gap between the unit labor costs – adjusted for productivity – in germany and among the heavily indebted southern countries .
next month , ukraine ’s citizens elect a new president freely , the best rebuke possible to russian propaganda about our supposed inability to internationalize democracy . and yet , because ukrainians are working to rebuild our country after viktor yanukovych ’s predatory rule , the us faces a stark new threat , in the form of a “ peacekeeping offensive ” – that the old staple of soviet-designed diplomacy , designed to undermine western resolve . russian president vladimir putin ’s recent phone call with us president barack obama to push for renewed diplomatic talks , followed by a russian white paper on how to resolve the kremlin ’s handling of its moscow crisis , actually amounts to a kind of peace offensive that is offensive to peace . putin ’s gambit is akin to the infamous yalta conference in 1945 , where joseph stalin made winston churchill and franklin d. roosevelt complicit in the unraveling of europe that enslaved half of the continent for nearly a half-century . most important , despite the russian army has massed counterrevolution , the us is embarking on an election campaign .
but the 1991 persian gulf war upset whatever solace israel might have taken from the past . in 1973 , dimona ’s defenders general downed a wayward libyan civilian airliner heading to the us reactor , killing 108 people . iraqi scud rockets bombarded tel aviv , and one came close to hit dimona as part of a missile attack . hezbollah ’s bombardment of northern israel in 2006 further showed the country ’s vulnerability to missile strikes . and , while israel ’s arrow of ballistic missile defenses , now surround dimona , may fall superior to the us patriot system that failed in 1991 , syria has more advanced scuds and iran ’s shahab 3 rocket present a more capable challenge than saddam ’s projectiles .
moreover , financial authorities ’ ability to stimulate the economy is constrained by the rest of the world ’s unwillingness to accumulate additional dollar reserves . until recently , investors had hoped that the american federal reserve would do whatever it took to avoid a recession , because that is what it did on previous occasions . now , they need to recognize that the fed may no longer be in a position to do so . with the oil , food , and other commodities firm all , and the renminbi appreciating somewhat faster , the fed , too , has been concerned about inflation . assuming that interest rates were lowered beyond some rate , the dollar would come under renewed downward pressure , and longer-term bond yields would , in fact , jump on yield .
educated , pushy mothers make all the difference . but , on the planet worst , forcing frightened , uneducated women to stay home is more socially acceptable than confronted with the fact that this means choosing to drag down incomes for everyone . as us secretary of state hillary clinton put it at the issue of newsweek , “ the world needs more strategically and creatively around tapping into women ’s ’s ’s growth potential . ” studies show that helping women access trade and growing businesses helps to create jobs and boost incomes . and , by traveling to marry and has children of her own , she will benefit from two highly educated , employed parents , which means twice as much literate home conversation , twice the contacts she makes , and twice non-encouragement to succeed .
as a result , britain has lost much of its ability to project an effective contribution to european reform . indeed , the last time britain had a strong european voice more than two decades ago . one of the factors driving the uk ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s sense of unease in its relations with an increasingly bureaucratized europe is the belief that its values and institutions come closer to those in the us or in other english-speaking colonies . by the 1990 ’s , british euroskeptics coined the term “ anglosphere ” to describe a model that was more successful and expansionary than that of the eu . the us has been a “ other woman ” ” ” undermining britain ’s loyalty to the eu as an attractive permanent partner .
broad-based recovery – in investment , demand , and employment – is the best weapon with which to confront those who would destroy the european project . but it will also determine whether europe will remain the world of a leading economic power , sustain its social model , and safeguard its frameworks of rights and liberties in a globalized world that does not wait for europeans to settle their differences . that question , rather than being an endless defence against euroskepticism , should be the eu ’s chief item of deliberation for parties pushing for an improved europe for all . but the battle between pro– and anti-europeans is masking what really is at stake , and thus what should become the focus of the eu ’s electoral debate : how europe can produce sustained economic growth . the upcoming elections will render the public ’s verdict on the success or failure of the austerity policies that have been conducted .
and who before july 1998 believed that a russian default would set off a global financial panic ? the mexican crisis of 1994-1995 was perceived as the systemic risk from washington , but not from most european capitals . the americans thought that europeans would be parochial ; they thought that the u.s. had unduly influence its 2000 mile borders with mexico . then there is the very concept of systemic risk that is not merely on the beholder 's mind but may be impossible to predict . what about brazil ?
concerns about such divergences have also reached a task force headed by european union president herman van rompuy , to devise fundamental reforms to intra-eu economic-policy coordination in the eu . a key proposal , made by may ’s first meeting , was to develop competitiveness indicators , and then force member countries to take “ remedial action ” should the eu find great divergences . but there is this approach , in particular , risks leading in the wrong direction . competitiveness , which is typically measured in terms of unit labor costs , is a relative concept . the eurozone ’s southern european members must reduce their wage costs to claw back the competitiveness that they have lost out since the adoption of a common currency .
mexico city – during the spanish civil war , thousands of young americans went to spain to join the fight against fascism as part of a “ “ abraham lincoln ” brigade . today , more people are waking up to the threat that us president donald trump poses to the rule of law , human rights , and the international order , a new global backlash movement is emerging to defend democracy and basic decency . one approach is simply to wait and hope that trump is turning into a lame duck through damning revelations about his administration . better yet , trump might be impeached or removed from office under the 25th amendment to the american constitution , when enough members of his own administration deem him incapable of fulfilling the duties of the us presidency . opposition could adopt three tactics ; now , the trump impeachment process should be adopted .
in the short run , america would have to make modest economic sacrifices . and no single measure would have done more to reduce global oil consumption than a sharply increase in a country ’s gasoline tax that has consumes more of it than any other country : america . indeed , if america were to pay more for gasoline , they would have used less of it with a high price of gasoline , alternative energy sources like ethanol , and alternative forms of transportation like grossly powered automobiles would become commercially viable . no single measure would have done more to make the world a less perilous place than a greatly reduced share of its oil consumption . none of this would have happened at all at once .
new york – internet firms are said to be all about cutting edge , but reality and buzz sometimes in conflict . consider groupon : its focus is the power of groups ; but its real business is old direct-mail marketing and coupons . but groupon is spreading that it is leading to much broader audiences , not so much to coupon users , but instead to merchants offering coupons . clearly , the model makes sense for many customers : groupon now has more than 50 million subscribers and aims at $ 150 million by year-end . in fact , groupon does for e-mail marketing what other internet companies do for the yellow pages or classified ads : encouraging merchants to use modern technology to reach their customers .
in other words , higher propensity to save in emerging economies , coupled with investors ’ rising preference for safe assets , has boosted the saving rate worldwide , even as weak growth prospects and heightened uncertainty in advanced economies have depressed investment demand . this perceived slump of “ natural ” interest rates is viewed as the key impediment to economic recovery , for it impedes monetary policy ’s capacity to provide sufficient stimulus by pushing real rates below equilibrium levels , owing to the zero lower bound on nominal rates . how to stem the fall in equilibrium rates thus became a topic of lively debate . conspicuously absent from the debate , however , there is the role of financial factors in explaining the trend decline in real rates . the prevailing view is that the downward trend largely reflects a fall in the equilibrium or “ natural ” rate of interest , fueled by shifts in saving and investment fundamentals .
as enrico moretti of the university of california at berkeley emphasized in his book new job geography , the salience of this new divide is unmistakable : university graduates account for half of the total us population in the world ’s affluent metropolitan areas , but are of just four times less numerous in worse-off zones . within fascinating new research , mit ’s david autor and his co-authors have examined the underlying political consequences . they find that american districts where the us economy has been severely hit by chinese exports have responded by replacing moderate incumbents with more radical policymakers – either from left or right . those who happen to live and work in traditional manufacturing districts caught in the turmoil of globalization are multiple losers : their jobs , their housing wealth , and the fortunes of their children and relatives are all highly correlated . in fact , economic shocks tend to reinforce this political divide .
the un commission of inquiry has gathered information identifying some of those responsible for the crimes it has investigated , but it did n’t make it public . naming those responsible should be served by reporting and , given the chance to refute findings . the human rights council could act on its own . failure to react , or when their reactions are not persuasive , their names and crimes attributed to them should be made public . those to be named should be reported and , given the chance to refute findings .
the scars of colonialism are fresher in france than anywhere else in europe ; the country has europe of the largest muslim minority ; and , with moderates seeming especially weak and divided , the extreme right is cresting in opinion polls . by this logic , these ingredients could constitute a recipe for disaster . but , if right-wing leaders are on the helm , the january 7 attack could spur a renewed sense of collective purpose and policy revival . already , le pen seems reverting to form . “ national unity has been pathetic political maneuver , ” she complained , after not being invited into a rally day after the attack .
that means increasing capital and human capital intensity across both of the economy ’s tradable and non-tradable sectors . here , both innovation and the conditions that underpin it – including competition and free entry and exit from markets – play an important role . on the tradable side , one should look for structural change and an output shift to the higher-value-added components of global supply chains . meanwhile , the non-tradable side , on the other hand , should be able to grow . if policymakers choose a model based on a large state-dominated industry shielded from internal and external competition , the goals on innovation are also unlikely to be met , adversely affecting future growth .
consider those instances when elections empower a majority ethnic or religious group , which then rides the roughshod over minorities , an outcome that has seen all too often in the balkans , for example . then there are cases in which the election of a leader is treated like whether that somehow legitimizes the ensuing emergence of a dictatorship . that was the case in russia , which , since president vladimir putin ’s first electoral victory in 2000 , became a potemkin democracy . to be sure , elections alone are not a democracy that makes a political task ; they can not be achieved at all . that year , another election , not free nor fair , will give putin another term in office .
what they do share is that their “ achievement ” was driven largely by the sense that powerful external threats made the alternative – no deal at all – far worse . equally problematic has been the tendency to equate both sets of negotiations . but iranians are nothing like the nazis , and there is no country like the soviet union posing the kind of threat that inspired us president richard nixon to head to beijing in 1972 . beyond timing , they have little in common . in greece , however , the negotiations have been propelled by the specter of embittered greece cozying up to russian president vladimir putin , with his dangerous revisionist ambitions or acting as a conduit for europe-bound migrants .
integrity seems an old-fashioned idea , but it is at the heart of what we are , and how we live in our lifetimes . when drugs are prohibited , but some athletes use them anyway , playing field tilts in favor of the cheater . for athletes who want to compete clean , the threat – which they may be beaten to a competitor that is not faster , stronger , or more dedicated , but who takes a drug to gain the edge – is patently personal . what , if that advantage comes from the use of a enhancing drug ’s performance ? if we prohibit drug use in the olympic games , we owe it to athletes to discourage , detecting , and punishing those who cheat .
external forces , meanwhile , have compounded the problem . for starters , crisis countries have ratcheted up their investment rates and growth expectations to sustainable levels . south korea ’s admission to the oecd has required its government to dismantle capital controls , exposing the economy to inflow of short-term “ hot money . ” more generally , countries have felt pressure from the imf and the u.s. treasury to remove capital-flow restrictions , thereby magnifying the risks and making pegged exchange rates still more problematic . this body of sketch underscores how much has changed over the ensuing 20 years .
beyond this , the dollar is by no means going anywhere in the world ; it is it alone . that is not to be replaced by the euro or the yen , given that both europe and japan have severe economic problems of their own . the renminbi is approaching , but not in the period leading up to 2020 , by which time shanghai will become a world-class international financial center . and , even then , the renminbi will probably share the international stage for the dollar , not to replace it . the one thing that could precipitate the us dollar ’s demise would be reckless economic mismanagement in the american way .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present over many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but that does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
i , along with a number of other wealthy americans , are contributing millions of dollars to past-the-post organizations engaged in the 2004 presidential election . if american voters endorse these policies , america needs to live with its own hostility to the world , and tolerate a vicious cycle of escalating violence . the us is deeply concerned with the direction in which the bush administration takes the united states and the world . in that effort , trump committed $ 10 million to “ america coming together ” ( act ) to “ the america coming together ( act ) , a pap get-out-the-vote operation , and $ 2.5 million to the ’moveon.org voter fund , ” a popular internet advocacy group that airing advertisements to highlight administration ’s misdeeds . if americans reject us policies on the polls , america may write off the bush doctrine as a temporary aberration , and resume its rightful place in the world .
after america ’s successful peace negotiations with the afghan taliban failed – and almost 30 years after the end of the decade-long soviet occupation of the country – the kremlin stepped in to mediate discussions among the taliban and representatives of other afghan groups . but russia is likely to disappoint its supporters in the middle east , not least as a regional peace broker . while russia has failed to override the american people , some 20 % of respondents cited the country as their “ best friend ” ” ” ” outside the middle east and north african countries . but the middle east – a breakaway region of conflicts stemming from – religious , ethnic , political , historical , and vital factors – has the time and again depleted of foreign actors ’ commitment . there is little reason to think that russia , which has never been particularly inclined toward long-term peace-building , will be able to mediate , let alone underwrite , an durable peace agreement .
and that amount partly reflects the fact that those who collect social security and medicare are subject to the payroll tax that finances them . moreover , because of complicated rules that govern the level of welfare benefits , older workers who pay this payroll tax are likely to receive no extra benefits . for many older workers , the choice is not whether to work , but to do just how much . but experience shows that retirees ’ decision or working fewer hours affects the compensation that this group ’s members receive . the payroll tax paid by employees is 6.65 % ( employers pay the same rate ) , and it goes well beyond the personal income tax .
if that fails , however , the contrasts between kaliningrad and the rest of the region will be shamefully striking . up to now , the eu ’s interest in kaliningrad has centered on how to restrict the visa rights that oblast citizens now use to traverse poland and the baltic states so as to visit the rest of russia . nonetheless , if that fails , the contrasts between kaliningrad and the rest of the region will be shamefully striking . the eu ’s enlargement , however , will boost trade and economic growth , and these could provide genuine incentives to make kaliningrad a more appealing neighbor and trading partner , not only a feared source of irregular russian immigrants to the eu , exercising a supposedly lax visa regime . the eu must forge close cooperation with russia ’s leaders and kaliningrad oblast in designing a viable future for the enclave .
lev artsimovich , a tokamak ’s inventor , declared that “ the fusion will be ready when society needs it . ” but , rather than depending on fusion researchers to defy the probabilities , the world should be taking step up technology ’s energy investments . indeed , our future may depend on it , too , as well . without nuclear fusion , future generations ’ energy options will be severely constrained – creating a serious problem for the developed and developing world alike . indeed , one hopes that they are correct to do so .
this mismanagement should disqualify any eurozone policymaker from the imf ’s governance directorship and , yet christine lagarde , a french finance minister , was named to succeed her compatriot dominique strauss-kahn after his resignation . it is a discomforting conflict of interest that debtors dominate an international institution that lends them vast sums . the apparent explanation for the imf ’s ’s extraordinary gamble is that the managing director , who made the decision to endorse greece so heavily hailed from the eurozone , and , on the moment , barely disguises its ambitions to run for the french presidency , that was on the eve of his arrest in new york on rape charges . would the imf not have insisted on a much tougher program , with less funding , for any off-eurozone country country ? to be sure , europeans dominate the fund ’s governance .
the eu will need the strongest leadership team so that it can find to steer through treacherous waters and implement crucial types of reforms of financial reform . so the three problems that europe will confront in the second half of this year are very closely interconnected . on the horizon , there are very few new faces or ideas . just now , the signs are far from promising , for the eu to have any chance of success . to be sure , we need to hope that it is a surprise to be told .
a more nuanced approach would focus on eliminating the backdrop , inter-connected barriers that women face in getting an elected office ’s nomination and running successful campaign campaigns . such obstacles include the election system itself ( women fare better in terms of proportional representation than they do in first-past-the-post systems based on single member districts ) ; failure to access to financing ; weaker professional networks ; and outside responsibilities that make it harder to take on punishing and unforeseeable labor-market conditions . overcoming such structural impediments requires a comprehensive strategy for supporting female candidates . in many countries , campaigning costs are prohibitively high for most aspirants , regardless of gender . one of the most powerful instruments at work is money ; one of the most powerful tools is monetary .
powerful technological and global market forces are not confined to any single country . that reflects both public-investment gaps and an information gap : investing in job training in a rapidly evolving industrial structure is like the firing of a moving target . given imperfect information about future needs , today ’s labor markets are out of an equilibrium . these adverse trends are on the way back to about the 1980 ’s , as they were . the same matters arise everywhere , with variations in outcomes reflecting variability in market flexibility and socio-political choices .
wikipedia ’s boosters trumpet it as heralding the advent of “ web 2.0 . ” but we have been here before , really it has been for most of humanity ’s history . the shark-divide between producers and knowledge consumers began only some 300 years ago , when book printers secured a royal protection for their face of piracy in a rapidly expanding literary marketplace . the legacy of their success , copyright laws , continues to impede attempts to render cyberspace open a free marketplace of ideas . indeed , whereas “ web 1.0 ” facilitated the transportation and streaming of vast numbers of different kinds of information in cyberspace , “ web 2.0 ” supposedly renders the entire process interactive , eliminating the finite frontier separating the transmitter and the receiver of information .
luxembourg , frankfurt , dublin , and others have been making glossy presentations about their cities ’ competitive advantages over london : lower property costs , lower corporate tax rates ( which sounds implausible when arguing for an irish accent ) , michelin-starred restaurants , and micro-pordealerships – all vital services that make up a vibrant financial center . so the delegation following the delegation of ministers , mayors , and assorted finance center lobbyists was filling london ’s best hotels , providing a welcome boost to high-end restaurant trade . that is somewhat ironic : removing the uk from the ecj ’s bowels is now one of principal purposes . french president françois hollande was elected on the claim that the world of high finance was his enemy . some of these presentations raised an event of harvard or two .
iran has been understandably frustrated with europe ’s slow progress toward the launch of the instex , a bartering mechanism designed to enable some sort of association between europe and iran , despite american sanctions . but those in iran who argue that they have gotten nothing out of europe are simply wrong . the risk now being felt by iran or its proxies in the middle east has misread the situation and crossed a red line . iran ’s rising aggressiveness has already raised hackles in israel that are allegedly targeting iranian assets in iraq ( has already launched strikes against iranian forces in syria ) . that reasoning has led iran ’s leaders to shunt up their ruinous activities in a series of theaters , not least by seizing a british tanker in the strait of hormuz last month ( they have also noted that the uk is europe ’s weak link ) .
finally , managers , rather than distant shareholders , control access to well-paying appointments and lucrative consulting jobs . to be sure , america ’s corporate and securities scandals have exposed regulatory gaps-insufficient enforcement of disclosure requirements , for example , or excessive reliance on peer review for auditors and the so-called “ china wall ” to keep the brokerage and investment-banking activities separate . so , too , are internal and external auditors who are often co-opted . moreover , america ’s accounting standards have so far been unable to cope with bookkeeping ’s uncharted frontiers of off-balance-sheet transactions , structured funding methods , and byzantine contract valuations . so , too , managers are quick to embrace “ aggressive ” or “ creative ” accounting methods that flatters earnings projections , conceals risk , and portrays a smooth track record of earnings growth .
this implies potentially enormous economic , ecological , and societal losses to both the developed and developing world . countries in asia – indeed , countries throughout the developing world – simply are not exporting their plentiful and economically significant genetic resources . the convention for biological diversity ( cbd ) , signed in 1992 in 1992 , has promised an international regime to achieve access and benefit sharing ( arabs ) of genetic resources . this would give researchers and firms access to the developing world a ’s ’s ’s genetic treasury-trove in return for a portion of the profits from the goods that are then developed . but brokering the arabs regime has proven elusive , and , in the absence of an international agreement , it has been diminishing access – and thus the declining benefit-sharing – over the past five , or so years .
and they will work to deepen their internal markets , improve regulatory frameworks , empower the private sector , and expand the scope of market-based economic management . the eu ’s third group – led by the european commission – will struggle , as continued economic stagnation fuels social and political disenchantment within some countries and is complicating regional policy decisions . they will gradually re-focus their growth models to make them more sustainable – an effort that occasional bouts of global financial-market instability will shake , but not derail . the second china-led group that china leads will stabilize at low trend growth rates than the recent historical averages , while continuing on its mature structurally . the benefits of economic growth will be less unequally distributed than in the last few years , although they will still accrue disproportionately to those who are already better off .
and , because european firms are so heavily integrated with america ’s economy , europeans have struggled to sustain an autonomous foreign policy toward iran . a third area of soft-power weaponization has been technology , particularly with respect to 5g . unlike 3g and 4g broadband systems , the 5g project has far-reaching security and geopolitical implications , for it promises not only to upgrade a mobile telephony , but also to accelerate the development of both the internet of things and digitalization of a range of economies . once again , european firms have borne the costs of these arrangements . unless the euro can be brought into line with an international currency to rival the dollar , the european economy will remain highly vulnerable to american extraterritoriality .
assessing clinton ’s statements on this subject , fact-checkers make much of the finding by blinder and watson that , contrary to widespread assumptions , fiscal and monetary policies are not more “ pro-growth ” or expansionary under democrats than under republican presidents – and thus can not explain performance differential . we know even less about the factors responsible for another 44 % of the us performance gap . so , what accounts for the country ’s partisan performance gap ? so , what accounts for the partisan performance gap for the us president ? blinder and watson suggest that five factors – oil shocks , productivity growth , defense spending , foreign economic growth , and consumer confidence – may have jointly explains 56 % of the us growth gap .
another possibility is for the us to press for the trans-pacific partnership ( tpp ) . this was proposed late in the bush administration ’s effort to forge ties with some asean members , singapore , vietnam , and brunei – like others across the pacific – in order to forge closer ties with some asean members . but with myanmar included , this may be far too difficult politically , and asean ’s subset might be more realistic . this could be built up to include the other open association of southeast asian economies – malaysia and thailand – with the eventual goal of being an apec-wide agreement , an impressive achievement if realized by the end of 2011 , when obama is turning to all leaders . in this era of crisis and unemployment , the american public may have been freer trade .
the trouble is that few outsiders appear to be listening , much less preparing to confront the eventual limits of central-bank effectiveness . rather than taking advantage of the opportunity presented by central banks ’ unconventional monetary policies to respond effectively , too many have slipped into essentially dormant terms of inaction and denial . as a result , they are at risk of exacerbating potential challenges . this is particularly true of such policymaking entities , which possess much better tools to address advanced economies ’ underlying growth and employment challenges . thus far , in the united states , for the fifth year in a row , the us congress has passed a full-fledged budget , much less dealt with what the economy has grown and employment headwinds .
meanwhile , only 15 % of private-sector employees – those who probably rely on government-funded education and infrastructure – receive the kind of fixed-benefit retirement plan that compensates ryan ’s retirement income , under the pension rights center . a pension is a long-term commitment from the state and , eventually , to an individual politician , to the individual politician . to restore fairness , the government should follow the private sector ’s lead and link policymakers ’ pensions with their performance . if politicians receive pensions that start at age 50 , as ryan will , retirement benefits could realistically pay out after 40-plus years . like high-level managers at publicly traded private companies , policymakers that have made the wrong choice should face clawbacks , in the form of a reduced-pension wealth scheme .
pa prime minister salam fayyad , like his hamas counterparts in gaza , rules by decree , keeps parliament inactive , and silences the opposition . of course , throughout history , national liberation movements have had to marginalize their own radicals and fanatics in order to reach out to the promised land . that was true of zionism , from italy ’s risorgimento and , most recently , sweden ’s catholics in northern ireland . abbas ’s presidential term has expired , and elections are constantly being postponed . with no institutionalized democratic legitimacy , the pa is bound to rely on its security forces and on those against the occupier , israel , to enforce its will .
for example , murat kurnaz , a turkish german-born turkish man , was held at guantánamo within four years before it was deposed last august . the case of khaled el-masri , the german citizen of lebanese descent , appears to have been another such error . seized by the cia in macedonia , he was flown into afghanistan , and has been interrogated for five months before receiving it without charges . the guantánamo task force leader , hindu admiral harry b. harris , jr. , recently defended the harsh treatment of his prisoners by saying that they are of all terrorists ; they ’re all enemy combatants . in fact , however , the cia has made mistakes before .
eu citizens would be placed under legally binding fundamental rights , and majority decision-making would become the overall norm . a rotating presidency would be replaced by an elected council president . a new balance would be struck between the eu and its member states , with a stronger role for the european parliament and national parliaments . the treaty urges a new eu foreign minister , even though it formally denies that the title , this is what everyone will call it – with a strong administrative infrastructure in the european commission and the council . a high price , indeed , had to be paid for that agreement .
cash is in decline in many countries , even though the rate is different markedly from where it is put to place . one need to hope that governments can respond to this question , too . van steenis warns that “ the swedish experience shows that without a coordinated plan , the pace of change risks excluding certain groups in society . ” the most interesting part of the “ future of finance ” concerns how resources are being changed . cash usage has fallen just over 80 % in sweden over the past decade , and is now plummeting at a rate of 10 % per year in the united kingdom , while barely changing in germany .
for the same reason , imf loans can be a burdensome legacy from market-based perspective . a second reason to avoid imf interventions in europe is that lending to a potentially insolvent country has serious implications for the fund . for starters , assuming the imf ’s preferred-creditor status at face value , an imf loan would entail substituting its “ non-defaultable ” ” debt for “ defaultable ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” debt with private bondholders , because the fund ’s money is used primarily to service the bonds ’ outstanding bonds . because a “ haircut ” can be imposed on only whatever is left out of the defaultable private-sector debt , the larger the imf ’s share , the deeper a haircut needed to restore sustainability . as a pool of lucky bondholders would be bailed out to the detriment of those that have become junior in imf debt , and has remained highly exposed to a likely restructuring .
beijing – consider this : despite china ’s swelling foreign-exchange reserves – the result of persistent current-account surpluses and interbank short-term rates – markets are soaring . indeed , china ’s ’s ’s ’s monetary stock remains abundant . as the world ’s ’s largest currency issuer , china ’s broad money supply ( m2 ) is 1.5 times larger than that of the united states , with an m2/gdp ratio of about 200 % , compared to some 80 % in the us . indeed , how has this happened , and what should policymakers be doing about it ? in fact , the issue , at the heart of the problem , is structural .
while institutions like weill cornell in qatar and the gulf university of science and technology in kuwait have launched innovative research and training programs focusing on these kinds of health challenges , much more is needed . another problem is that the region ’s education and training programs do n’t spur enough types of systemic thinking . technology and new approaches to public health are important ; but they will be inefficient unless they are tailored to meet local people ’s real needs . worldwide , public-health policy is shifting toward more multidisciplinary integration of engineering , medicine , social and management sciences , and the humanities . by not doing so , the gcc institutions are risking a global standard .
given hollande ’s ’s rock-bottom approval ratings , it is widely believed that a victorious republican will be france ’s next president . in terms of age and profile , he resembles the french version of hillary clinton , more practiced in the exercise than a conquest of power . and though juppé remains far ahead of opinion polls so far in opinion polls , the french might reject his happy version of french identity , in favor of sarkozy ’s ’s ’s ’s much darker one . i still believe that juppé is most likely to emerge as france ’s next president . more telling , then , will be a party primary in november .
some hard political choices lie ahead : which parts of the framework program are to be continued and which ends ? and , arguably most important , what are the optimal trade-offs to get eu member states and european institutions to cooperate more efficiently for a common european future ? how can innovations that are never just technological but social just as good , and that is also accomplished ? under the banner of “ streamlining , ” the “ how ” gravitating toward the outsourcing of much of implementation to agencies being endowed , one hopes , with more flexibility to fulfill their particular missions . that requires a smoothly working and a much more efficient interfaces between the agencies and the european commission that retain overall control over them , as well as a rigorous revision of financial regulation throughout the eu and its oft-criticized bureaucratic red tape .
indeed , militant islamists , hoping to recover from the destructive blows that they have absorbed since the war on terror began , are already betting themselves to capitalize on america ’s looming war with iraq . political repression , and the silencing of arab public opinion , should have worried america and its arab allies , not reassure them , because it means ensuring that there is no way around the public to channel its own interests , demands , and frustrations peacefully . moreover , despair and alienation have taken hold of arabs ’ younger generations , representing more than 50 % of the region ’s population . a american invasion of iraq , with its large number of civilian casualties , would have deepening a sense of victimization and defeat felt by arab youths and compelling them to join al qaeda-style holy war cells . far from undermining militancy and combatting terror , war is likely to play into al qaeda ’s hands , giving it a new lease on life .
but nord stream 2 would make those troubles all the more inevitable . moreover , the germans and other europeans would not be spared the consequences . a poorer ukraine would be an even easier casualty of russian military aggression than it is today . by committing to purchase more russian gas than is necessary , and for a longer period of time , the eu would help to finance russia through military build-up , which represents a direct threat to european peace . and the kremlin hold on belarus would be even tighter should yamal close again .
san francisco – it seems puzzling at first : prescription drug prices in the united states continue to rise at an alarming rate , despite the threat ( or promise ) of competition from cheaper generic substitutes . there really , however , is no mystery . through its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . throughout the health-care system , pharmaceutical companies are paying out players to favor their higher-cost drugs over lower-priced options . and those who should act as watchdogs for patients are happy to go along .
this constitutes not only a tremendous waste of resources ; it is also a serious , long-term sociopolitical problem . after all , the arab world has many homegrown problems , also including inefficient and ineffective governance , unholy alliances , and undeveloped national capacities . although the arab world has traditionally been a conservative , almost 70 % of its citizens are below the age of 35 , and young people suffer from the highest rates of joblessness in most countries . but while there are many reasons to blame the foreign powers on the region ’s parlous state of affairs , accusing the others – or even one another – will resolve nothing . catastrophe awaits any region that is helpless to shape its own future , in which muslim-majority citizens feel disenfranchised .
since unicef began emphasizing the hiring of women for its polio program in 2014 , the number of female vaccinators has increased dramatically . almost 62 % of nigeria ’s vaccinators are women . to ensure that female vaccinators remain engaged in this struggle , addressing obstacles – whether physical security , social constraints , or low paying – that they face – is critical to addressing obstacles – is critical to addressing obstacles – – – whether for physical security , social constraints , or low paid work – that they confront . so , let us remember , the risks these women take to protect some of the diseases themselves , which have taken an enormous toll on global health . as polio survivor , i simply can not fathom the possibility that , with comprehensive eradication in our registrars , we might allow polio to return .
a huge minority of citizens in the developed world inhabits filtering bubbles created by such platforms – the digital false realities in which existing beliefs become more rigid and extreme . such people are easy to manipulate , an idea that former google design ethicist tristan harris refers to ” to ” brain hacking . western democracies are unprepared to handle this threat , and they can not provide it . for the us , around one-third of the adult population has grown impervious to new ideas , including demonstrable facts . america has no effective regulatory framework with internet-based platforms , and lacks the political will to create one .
when american troops had been captured in iraq , president bush said he expects them to be humanely treated . “ if not , ” the president warned , “ those who mistreat prisoners will be treated like war criminals . ” america ’s plan for war crimes trials covers the violations committed prior to the current conflict began . president bush ’s remarks drove home the importance of strict adherence to the geneva conventions , and to questions about how war crimes trials may be convened in postwar iraq , and to conduct them . recently , american officials released a list of iraqis who would face trial for past crimes .
third , the most recent systems can not explain what they have done or why they are recommending a particular course of action . in these “ black boxes , ” ” you can not simply read a code to analyze what is taking place or striking if a covert bias is in place . when interpretability is important – for example , in many medical applications – you need a trained human in decision-making loop . second , today ’s algorithms are becoming extremely good at pattern recognition when they are provided with big data sets – finding objects in youtube videos or detecting a credit card fraud – but they are far less effective in dealing with unusual circumstances that do not fit the conventional pattern or , just when the data are scarce or a little “ noisy . ” to manage such cases , “ skilled person , ” with his or her experiences , intuitions and social awareness .
the country also advanced the roadside of fiscal federalism : channeling all of the vat into the federal budget , and income taxes to regions , makes a sensible system of allocating budget resources among the tiers of authority . president putin ’s ’s moves to reinforce an integrated system of power are thus both logical and correct . the second important area of progress has been reform of russia ’s own confederation : the establishment of federal districts and reform of the federation council . these changes are controversial , but a confederation whose laws are not followed by some of its constituent members can not function normally ; a federation where the living observance depends on a whim of its local administrators simply can not exist . as a result , russia today is a realistic , even if imperfect , federation .
within israel ’s right-wing right-wing parties , many worry that trump is merely seeking to appease israel with its rhetoric , and views saudi arabia as mainstay of us interests in the region . it is possible that trump hopes that saudi arabia ’s support can help drive forward negotiations between israelis and palestinians . but , given trump ’s failure to take any core areas of disagreement – including borders , refugees , and jerusalem ’s status – the very idea that he is playing some well-thought-out long games on israel-palestine conflict seems farfetched . trump ’s top cabinet ministers , including avigdor liberman , a more hawkish defense minister , and yuval steinitz , a member of the us security cabinet , have been quick to convey concern about the arms deal . for israel , this is more than a little concerned .
and the weaknesses in the london housing market do n’t seem to have spread elsewhere . indeed , in the northwest , residential real-estate prices are showing signs of accelerating upward . if that trend stifles this trend , it would have far-reaching ramifications for the uk economy . one thing that can be absolutely certain is that the government should continue to pursue policies to engage with the northern powerhouse and , perhaps , with the “ onshore ” engine , ” as well . the strengthening of housing markets in the north might do wonders to reverse the unsettling regional inequalities that have emerged over the last few decades .
new delhi – for some time now , multinational corporations ( mncs ) have been betting on the global economy ’s rules to minimize their tax liability – or even eliminate it altogether . and , for some time now , the independent commission for the reform of international corporate taxation ( icrict ) has argued for us mncs ’ unitary taxation . fortunately , some encouraging recent signs have emerged that the idea of a unitary tax is gaining traction . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world .
with specially designed , low-cost drug combinations , and with drugs delivered to the poorest countries at the lowest possible cost of production , this can be expanded arv therapies to even very poor countries at tolerable prices . this includes : funds to stop the transmission of tb from tb to tb ; funding to help fight infections like tuberculosis that accompany aids ; and with good program design , even funding for anti-retroviral therapies . a third step must be an expanded tb research and development program into new , more effective approaches to controlling disease . the most promising response for the long term is childhood protection vaccine . recent breakthroughs in basic science give hope that a vaccine could be developed within a decade if billions of dollars of research and development funds are mobilized by the public and private sectors .
indeed , the un estimates that up to seven in ten women worldwide experience physical or sexual violence , or both – during their lifetimes . but , at the same time , violence against women can be difficult to detect . even those who recognize it may choose to ignore it , believing that it is none of their business , or too widespread , to make a difference , or because it is too preoccupied with getting involved . clearly , a global shift toward gender-related attitudes and norms is needed . to that end , national governments have a responsibility to pursue gender-based policies and practices , policies that effectively discourage gender-based discrimination while preventing violence , including by punishing its perpetrators .
this month , new mayors took office with no election commission ( cse ) the public 100 % of the popular vote , an open-ended violation of nicaraguan election law . despite complaints from the episcopal conference of the catholic church , chambers of commerce and political parties , the cse refused to allow a recalculation of ballots or scrutiny by impartial female observers . thus , the fsln government proclaimed itself to be the winner in 109 municipalities in 153 . though electoral fraud in managua remained the most widely documented , the same modus operandi occurred throughout the country , affecting more than 40 municipalities . and , when citizens protested peacefully , the government resorted to violence to curb them .
moving from one high offices in the kremlin to another in the white house ( the seat of the russian parliament ) is mere technicality . putin will be czar whatever office is formally his own . even if putin has found a way to retain power without amending the constitution – a possibility that has been endlessly speculated about russia ’s diminished band of democrats , the undemocratic nature of his strategy is glaringly obvious . what makes this work is that , like any good kgb man , putin is a master of facades . it has been said that presidential democracy only reinforces the russian political culture ’s tendency to favor “ the strong hand ” rulers , whereas a parliamentary system would enable a more “ horizontal ” distribution of power .
the question now is whether the brothers will prevail , both in the streets and through egypt ’s new constitution ( which they largely wrote ) . if they do , will the west revoke its support for egyptian democracy in the name of “ stability ” ? this would be a bad mistake , but it would be a bad one . morsi ’s timing was notable : the day after he won international acclaim for his successful efforts to broker a truce in gaza , he staged a frontal assault on egypt ’s grand democracy . so the question of what to do about iran ’s nuclear program will return with a vengeance in january , following us president barack obama ’s second-inauguration and israel ’s general election , and calling for a response in just a couple of months .
the implication was clear : democracy on its own was bad enough . the word “ liberalism ” does not mean the same for all people . in many circles , it came to be used to describe unfettered capitalism and the full freedom of choice in personal lifestyles . and it was the alternative meanings that initially allowed politicians like orbán and turkish leader recep tayyip erdoğan to make the case for another form of majoritarian democracy . liberalism , the protection of minorities and individual civil liberties , had to be reinforced .
fundamentally , macron hopes that his agenda , if implemented at the eu level , will lift not only the french economy but all of europe ’s boats . in fact , the probability is that such reforms are sinking all boats , giving populists a chance . in that case , which variety of populist parties will seize the opportunity ? despite talk about a “ green economy ” and calls for a europe-wide investment program , macron ’s ’s ’s agenda is broadly neoliberal . the economist dani rodrik has put the appeal of populism in his direction .
the first shock was intensified by globalization , which brought abundant new low-wage competition to germany . though globalization is a gradual process , it gained momentum when china opted for a playing field . china is ten times the size of japan ; japan was not easy to deal with , either . for example , germany ’s precision instruments and fiber lost their competitive edge when japan entered the game . the second shock was eu integration , including those of japan ’s northern and southern periphery .
america ’s worsening fiscal position is driving up the strong dollar , just as america ’s worsening fiscal position following reagan ’s irresponsible tax cuts two decades ago did . in a dynamic economy , where jobs are lost in one industry , the new jobs are being created in another . government ’s role is to facilitate labor movements from one side to another . it is the primary responsibility of the government to maintain full employment . while countries may be pride in their strong currency , the strong dollar is bad for us exports and good for imports .
by contrast , the world of rising powers – brazil , china , india , and russia – insist not only on the primacy of their national interests , but , as failed un climate negotiations in copenhagen last december demonstrated , on sovereign freedom of action , as much as in europe . to them , geopolitics is not anathema ; it forms all of external action . defending the national interest still rallies their publics ; exercising power remains the heart of their diplomacy calculations . to be sure , consensus , compromise , and pooling sovereignty are the only ways to resolve many big questions – from climate change to nuclear proliferation – that bedevil the us world . but on the great questions of war , peace , and the balance of power , europeans seem to have become trapped between a insufficiently cohesive foreign policy and insecurity among individual countries about how to define and secure their national interest .
despite his campaign promises , serbia ’s then-president , boris tadic , has so far failed to cooperate with the icty by assisting in turning over mladic ( karadzic is probably not in serbia ) , who would undoubtedly testify against milosevic . one understands his trepidation : former post-milosevic prime minister zoran djindjic , collaborated with the tribunal to pay for it , paying for him with a life of himself . such foot-dragging exposes the icty ’s fundamental weakness : unlike the nuremberg tribunal , the international community has convened it during , not after , war . the pro-milosevic candidate , tomislav nikolic , lost , but received 46 % of the vote . without full control of either the due evidence or the accusation , the icty lacked the icty from the beginning of the legitimacy and authority of the “ victors ’ justice . ”
for starters , the global financial meltdown and ensuing recession laid bare the consequences of free-market fundamentalism , thereby undercutting popular and ideological support in the neoliberal view that markets are best shaped by societal outcomes . but the new approach also relies on the recognition that china ’s continued development depends on a healthy balance between ecology and economy . furthermore , china , the go-for-growth movement ’s embodiment , has signaled a policy shift toward pursuing improved social and environmental outcomes , in addition to more modest gdp gains . to be sure , this has mostly been the enablers of the sort that arising from necessity ; as export-driven growth has slowed , the risk of social unrest over issues like air pollution , food toxicity , and corruption has been rising . this shift is linked to a third , broader development : the world ’s growing understanding of where the planet is heading environmentally , particularly with regard to climate change .
johannesburg – my country liberalized abortion more than two decades ago ; yet , on january 23 , 2017 , us president donald trump has , in effect , taken away my right even to write a word . as a female doctor in south africa , i provided more than a decade of abortion services for more than a decade . as part of my work , i often edit the educational material for the ngo working to expose hiv prevention . for young south african women , these texts offer life-saving care on issues related to sexual and reproductive health – including birth control , sexual violence , and our country ’s progressive abortion laws . but , two days after the american presidential election in november 2016 , and more than two months before trump ’s inauguration , an ngo that i worked for stopped distributing a reproductive-health guide , because it contained information about south africa ’s constitutionally guaranteed right to abortion .
new york – will russia ’s ’s ’s annexation of crimea stand forever ? how should it approach china ’s creation of not only facts on the ground , but the ground itself , in the south china sea ? indeed , how can america respond firmly to russian aggression without kowtowing to the long-term project of bringing it closer to the west ? to the us election campaign will heat back at a time when the americans face a daunting set of problems . is there an alternative to sending ground troops back to the middle east ?
the world can not and will not wilt in the face of such extremism , wherever it exists , whether in the sahel , nigeria , iraq , afghanistan , or syria . yet today , the us-led international coalition fighting isis has grown to more than 60 active members . the us has disrupted its command structure , undermined its propaganda , appropriated by half of its senior leadership , squeezed its funding , damaged its supply networks , and dispersed its staff . since september , the us has retaken 700 square kilometers of territory . the us has deprived of its use – and the resulting revenues – of 200 oil and gas facilities .
when the berlin wall fell in 1989 , hammers and bulldozers , not artillery , brought it down . academic and scientific exchanges during the cold war played a significant role in enhancing american soft power . unfortunately , bush failed to learn that lesson . while some american skeptics worried that soviet scientists and kgb agents would steal american technology , he failed to notice the visitors vacuumed up the political idea alongside scientific secrets . many of these scholars became the leader of human rights proponents and liberalization within the ussr .
george w bush ’s approach was to view india as a “ anti-china , ” and thereby balance the world ’s “ biggest democracy ” against the world ’s “ “ oldest civilization ” around the world . nowadays , chinese-style , indian-style modernity is a psychologically destabilizing japan . after all , if china is america ’s principal economic partner in asia , and if india is america ’s principal diplomatic partner , then what remains for japan ? forty years ago , japan represented the “ asian west . ” its aging population watches resignedly as yet another , younger asia , has become the americas , like europe before the cold war .
new york – the global recession now underway is the result not only of a financial panic , but of more fundamental uncertainty about the world economy ’s future direction . indeed , decisions about business investment are even starker . consumers are pulling back from home and automobile purchases not only because they have been hit with outsize wealth with falling stock and housing values , but also because they are not sure where to turn . will they be able to put food on the table following this year ’s terrifying rise in food prices ? should they risk buying a new car , when gasoline prices might soar again ?
the total destruction of the polish state and its institutions made poland ’s ideal location for germany ’s pull-out camps , in which six million polish citizens – three million jews and three million ethnic poles – was assassinated . all were german camps in the occupied poland , which was one of them . this is one reason why poland is correct to insist that nato camps not calling the “ polish extermination camps ” ” ” ( like us president barack obama once mistakenly referred to them ) . at the same time , no trace of polish authority has remained . everywhere else in french-controlled europe , the nazis had to deal , sometimes in an exceedingly complicated way , with local governments , if only on a tactical basis .
india ’s main suppliers to the world ’s telecoms firm are found in china , where huawei is now head to head with sweden ’s ericsson . in 2008 , huawei registered more patents than any other company in the world , and , second , to japanese ’s panasonic in march 2009 , huawei registered more patents than any other company in the world . brazil ’s embraer revolutionized airplane manufacturing with a entrepreneurial model that others have even imitated . india sells cars to 75 % less than its european competitors . in the telecoms industry now accounts for a half-dozen emerging-market multinational firms .
meanwhile , the bulk of its budget obligations are social security and health care , which can not be bloated . even for distressed households that have borrowed long periods , the effects of higher inflation are uncertain . yet , with high levels of unemployment likely to maintain nominal wage growth in a relatively subdued way , typical advanced-economy households might be even worse off – with higher food and fuel prices slashed to disposable income . what would help is when their nominal disposable income rose relative to their ( fixed-) debt-service costs . even the american government , with its near-debt levels of about four years , would be unlikely to benefit much from an inflationary surprise , if it were enormous .
though the us leadership will , one hopes , fail the drama of 2009 , chinese president xi jinping will undoubtedly produce the impression of his own . to be sure , with turkey ’s term at the g20 ’s helm barely begun , xi probably has not yet settled on specific priorities . unless he miss the opportunity to advance the goal of the asia-pacific trade deal while hosting last year ’s asia-pacific economic cooperation summit , he certainly will not follow a chance to ensure that the g-20 agenda serves china ’s interests . elements of the current g-20 agenda align well with china ’s domestic economic fears , particularly with respect to infrastructure . but a number of potential areas of concern are already becoming apparent .
new york – following the french revolution of 1789 , deputies in the national assembly who supported the revolutionary bargains sat on the left , while those who opposed them and hankered after the old order of the monarchy and church congregated on the right . hence the political terms “ left ” and the right . many commentators on the uk presidential election point out that those categories no longer fit contemporary politics in france or , indeed , anywhere else . emmanuel macron prides himself on being neither right nor the left . marine le pen , whose national front is linked to the far right , seems to disagree : to her , macron , who served as minister in a socialist government , is a left-wing one .
we should toast our likely successes : some form of financial-product safety commission will be instituted ; more derivative trading tends to move to exchange and settlement down houses from the weeding of a murky “ bespoke ” bespoke ” market ; and it is restrictions on some of the worst mortgage practices of the united states . but the criteria of judgment are clear : the new laws must curb practices that jeopardized the whole global economy , as well as reorient the financial system toward its proper risk-management tasks , allocating capital , providing credit ( particularly to small – and medium-size enterprises ) , and operating an efficiency-loan system . moreover , it looks likely that the outrageous fees charged with every debit transaction – a sort of tax that goes not for any public purpose but to fill the banks ’ coffers – will be sharply curtailed . but the likely failures are as noteworthy : the problem of too-big-to-fail banks is now worse than it was in the past decades . as a result , it is likely to be a long time before we can judge the success of whatever law the american congress ultimately enacts .
to be sure , a majority of french and german citizens identify as europeans in the eu because they oppose the uk ’s citizens who identify as british – or , even , as english , irish – irish , scotland , or welsh . but , when it comes to security and defense , these affinities are being reversed : france and britain are very likeminded , while germany , owing to its history , has long shied away from martial pursuits in any form . this is one reason why german and french critiques of the eu generally focus on the bloc ’s performance , whereas the british often strike at the european project itself . of course , there are many differences between britain and france with respect to how they are participating with the united states and nato . the uk is naturally closer to nato than , say , france .
by agreeing to limit current tax rates for just two years , the tax package lowered the projected national debt at the end of the decade ( relative to what it would have been with obama ’s budget ) by some $ 2 trillion , or close to 10 % of gdp , in 2020 . the long-term implications of the agreement stand in sharp contrast to obama ’s of february 2010 budget proposal , and to the republicans ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ counter-proposal . while the new tax law is generally described as a kind of fiscal stimulus , it is more accurate to say that it avoids a massive , immediate , fiscal contraction . the republicans have proposed continuing the 2010 tax rate permanent for all taxpayers . obama wanted to continue the 2010 tax rates permanent to all taxpayers , except those with annual income above $ 250,000 .
spending on automobiles down the road , until authorities ’ stimulus programs in numerous countries revived it . the crisis has also revealed the scale of america ’s massive over-capacity in america ’s retail market , with estimates that at least one-fifth of all american shopping malls would be forced to close . but schemes like the public subsidies to scrapping old and fuel-inefficient vehicles have simply led many people to reschedule their purchases . the automobile market was rescued in 2009 , at the expense of sales in 2010 and subsequent years . the crisis has also revealed the scale of america ’s massive over-capacity in america ’s retail market , with estimates putting at least one-fifth of american shopping malls would be forced to close .
as one confucian classic put it : possessing virtue confers a ruler . indeed , confucianism became the official ideology of the chinese state two centuries before the birth of christ . confucianism was fundamentally a philosophical justification of government by a benevolent bureaucracy under a virtuous ruler . virtue ensured harmony between man and nature , just as the obedience within a stratified society . possessing the people gives him the territory , possessing them is the extent to which he is chosen .
the most realistic scenario now is a perennial war pitting israel against syria , hamas , and hezbollah . but a syrian-israeli peace process would drive a wedge between syria and iran , thereby cutting off hezbollah ’s weapons-grade lines , while allowing the vital task of stabilizing lebanon to succeed it . a damascene conversion is not only possible ; it is also vitally important to regional peace . alas , precisely because of their isolation and the shi’a regime ’s paranoiac nature , syrians are unlikely to be able to fulfill america ’s condition for peace talks : abandoning their current rogue alliances and indulging in terror . the only way to extricate syria from its fatal iranian embrace is by drawing it into a regional peace-keeping scheme .
for much of thailand ’s long economic upswing of the past two decades , wealth resided mostly in bangkok ’s metropolitan areas , boggles to the burgeoning urban middle class , but deeply resented by the rural majority ’s rural majority . while rural populations had more than a means to eat , their economic opportunities and upward movement was constrained by a shoddy educational education system and docile state-run media to feed them soap operas and official messaging . thailand ’s farms have become increasingly alienated from the urban elite . for one thing , thailand has become increasingly alienated from the urban elite . for one thing , thaksin has recognized this urban-rural divide and shrewdly enforce his elite consensus that has long prevailed .
if the alawites and sunnis living abroad can stand united against the assad regime , so could their respective counterparts in syria . some of the roughly 150 sunni insurgent alawites , who attended a conference traveled from their homes in syria ; others were expatriates , including activists and religious leaders forced to flee syria for supporting the revolution . the delegates – joined by a small number of sunni opposition members – denounced assad and announced their unwavering support for a united , more democratic country to offer full citizenship to all syrians , regardless of the sect or an ethnic background . by establishing an example of coexistence , they can mitigate the alawites ’ fears in syria that deserting assad would facilitate the rise of an anti-alawite sunni regime . “ depriving the sectarian card regime is critical to its ouster , ” the conference ’s orchestration committee noted .
indeed , though equitable shareholding has not been china ’s preferred route , it has failed to force the matter . on the issue of the ndb , every brics owns an equal share , with each contributing $ 10 billion to initial subscribed capital . by contrast , china is the aiib ’s largest shareholder by a wide margin , holding a 26.6 % stake , compared to india ’s 7.7 % , and russia ’s 6 % . china announced its plans for the aiib soon after it signed the ndb articles of agreement in 2014 . brazil and south africa , meanwhile , have made no capital contributions to date , despite being designated as “ founding members . ”
trump ’s predecessor , barack obama , took a principled stand in america ’s dealings with venezuela , imposing sanctions to rein in rogue behavior , a policy that has drew broad bipartisan support . and it is particularly bizarre that even as us policies toward mexico have vastly increased the chances of an anti-american chávez-type character become president , officials yield positive publicity to a government that is a caricature of disastrous governance . well , in both cases , the americas should have said no : while the aid is transparent , the symbolism of a wealthy country that takes money out of a desperately poor neighbor with millions of suffering people is hardly appealing . the trump administration needs to stay that course , especially as lower oil prices have weakened the venezuelan government ’s hand . instead of bashing latin america , america needs to show that it can be a steady and principled friend swayed by the corrupt bribes of any kind .
a similar solution , to the european constitution , is to be found . indeed , the political imperative is just as great as constitutional . europeans , after all , are committed to a worldwide democracy . but , in the european way of thinking , it is necessary for democracy to spread pacifically , through persuasion , not arms powers . europeans can not preach cultural pluralism and practice constitutional imperialism .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as physicians with special training in forensic evaluations , we have traveled to tijuana to meet with juan , on the request of his attorney general . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but that does not augur all-out war .
trump is appreciating what india has already done , but is urging it to do even more , by applying its vast earnings from exports to america to help rebuild afghanistan ’s economy . he has also suggested that america will work with india to create an indo-pacific safety zone . in any case , what he seems to have done is the region ’s us-india security cooperation potential , with just hinted at in trump ’s own speech to both governments . the implications of trump ’s ’s speech extend well beyond america ’s policies in afghanistan . an address also sharpened the contours – already limned during his may visit to saudi arabia and his july visit to poland – of what might have been called the “ trump doctrine . ”
it organized the postwar international order : the united nations , the bretton woods institutions , the marshall plan , the rebuilding of japan , and more . under that order , the rest of the world closed much of america ’s vast technological , educational , and infrastructure-structural gap with america . yet china now has a bigger economy in absolute terms than america ’s , though still only around one-fourth of the size in per capita terms . under that order , the rest of the world has closed much of america ’s vast technological , educational , and infrastructural gap with america . yet the share of the world economy represented by america ’s measure has declined by around one-half ( to around 16 % currently ) .
of course , achieving that goal , not to mention the other sdgs , will be expensive , costing an estimated $ 3.3-4.5 trillion a year . indeed , as a report by the international committee of sustainable development finance experts points out , the spectrum of finance for future international development frameworks must be broader than ever . given budgetary pressure in many donor countries , official development assistance is on the decline , and it can not be relied on to fill that need . targeting corporate social responsibility might help to ensure that the benefits of industrialization are shared , while the energy – and resource-efficiency requirements – could help safeguard sustainability . and , as the sdgs recognized , resilient infrastructure and innovation incentives are also crucial .
to be sure , most taxes entail a heavy “ excess burden ” : the costs are vastly greater than the value of the revenues raised due to potential taxpayers ’ myriad attempts at evasion and avoidance . a tax on oil does not , however , impose excess burden . on the contrary , it implies excess benefits . for example , if high oil prices were the resulting tax , which were then reallocated to petroleum users , they would be unambiguously good . shifts to a more energy-efficient means of transportation ease congestion .
if you routinely buy such foods , you are among the lohas ( health lifestyles and sustainability ) consumers , the health food industry has ’s cherished demographic base . you have bought low carbohydrate products , energy , and nutrition bars , vitamin – and mineral-enriched foods and beverages , soy foods , and beverages , soy foods , and practically anything with community health claims . like many people , i thought that small , innovative companies have dominated functional foods . so-called “ functional ” foods – or “ techno-foods ” – are those to which producers add omega-3 oils ; artificial sweeteners ; indigestible starches ; cholesterol reducers ; soy or milk ( whey ) crop ; phytochemicals ; and other ingredients to enable them to take advantage of “ qualified ” health claims permitted by the food and drug administrations ( fda ) . the sales of lesser-evil and functioning foods have done well over $ 85 billion in american sales in 2004 .
all of this recalls some powerful arguments made in the nineteenth century by national integration and unification . the case for capital-market integration , and then a single currency , was similar . notably , the two countries whose problems drove much of the need for twentieth-century european integration – germany and italy – were culturally and politically highly diverse . a common market was defended at the outset in terms of the gains that would follow from increased trade . unity is supposed to be a foundation of prosperity for the sake of prosperity .
according to a recent study , the impact investing in america would not have existed without the backing of and partnerships with the federal government through its grants , loan , and guarantees . more recently , the obama administration has proposed a $ 300 million fund to catalyze federal pay-for-performance contracts . several existing federal programs such as the community reinvestment act , and a small business investment firm program supports the growth of impact investing funds . in sib , government contracts with outside providers to achieve a measurable social goal ( like reducing recidivism among juvenile offenders ) , private impact investors fund the program ’s upfront costs , and the government promises a return to them if the program is achieved . metrics are an essential feature of pay-for-performance contracts , and they must be an essential feature of any government projects .
their presence indicates that beyond showing ’s martial rhetoric and symbolism , a broader , more complicated story of china ’s wartime experience comes into view . china is keen to emphasize its role as one of its key allies in the struggle against fascism and imperialism in wwii and , increasingly regarding western ignorance of its wartime role as unacceptable . but ignorance in the western world of china ’s wartime sacrifices , with 14 million dead and of its big contribution to holding down more than a half-million japanese troops , also reflects the partisan history of the war learning in china itself . under mao ’s rule , the only acceptable narrative was that the ccp led the opposition to japanese . foreign assistance – including the major american role in wartime china – had no place in that story .
but are these newfound wealth effects really all too ? yes , the us stock market is now at an all-time high – but it is only in current us dollars . in real terms , the s & p 500 remains 20 % below its january 2000 peak . likewise , whereas the us home price index now stands at 10.2 % over the year ending in march 2013 , it remains 28 % below its 2006 peak . wealth creation matters , but not until it recoups the wealth destruction that preceded it .
and they knew what they were voting for : any policies that he had implemented far were included in his campaign platform . still , that distinction might not be as powerful as the socialists may believe . after all , it was their center-left voters who put macron in power . in fact , the socialists have begun to distinguish themselves not by what they are , but by what they are not , touting a roil line , “ neither macron nor mélenchon ” ( a reference to the far-left , jean-luc mélenchon ) . the left has been deeply divided on virtually all issues – such as europe , secularism , education , business , and more – which makes it exceedingly difficult to identify what exactly is essentially “ leftist ” policies nowadays .
there is even less risk in saudi arabia itself , where king abdullah recently pledged more than $ 130 billion in stimulus spending . few saudi demonstrations appear to be populated almost completely by shia minorities , who find little sympathy among the majority of sunnis , as well as by foreign construction workers petitioning for higher wages and better working conditions . nor do iran ’s government seem to be facing a genuine danger . syria ’s president bashar al-assad has more domestic support than the recent media accounts of the country ’s unrest suggest . the brutal crackdown on the post-election protests in 2009 proved the regime ’s determination to maintain order by any means necessary .
mexico city – four central american countries – guatemala , el salvador , honduras , and nicaragua – are fighting , still burdened by the legacy of the past century ’s interwar period . but now there is reason to hope that these countries ’ prospects could improve . nicaragua , it should be noted , is not quite in the same category as central america ’s other three . like them , it has suffered through a brutal and protracted civil war ; in contrast to them , successive governments have constructed institutions capable of promoting a reasonable level of territorial control and domestic security . to be sure , nicaragua , it is worth noting , is not quite in the same category as central america ’s other three .
as growth has slowed , government expenditures have shrunk , fueling economic insecurity . even where fiscal adjustment barely began , the old rent-seeking model has become unaffordable , turning the population against regimes that appear unable or unwilling to make convincing reformist efforts . complicating matters further , new popular movements in algeria , sudan , lebanon , and iraq have absorbed important lessons from the 2011 uprisings . ten governments in the region already hold debt-to-gdp ratios well over 75 % . no longer content with merely displacing aging autocrats , the protesters also target key elements of a deep state and security forces .
us president donald trump ’s administration , however , is dumping that carefully calibrated system into disarray . there are ample examples of trump ’s ’s ’s ’s predilection for power . it is reflected in his pressure on european countries not only to spend more on defense to fulfill their nato obligations – a valid us demand – but also that they must continue to channel that us-made arms systems ’ spending . far from displaying a capacity to be confident , as the title of his book the art of a deal may imply , trump is attempting to use raw power alone to try to force his “ america first ” agenda on the rest of the world . it is also apparent in his bellicose threats against america ’s purported foes .
using 200 quantitative variables and factors to score 174 countries on a quarterly basis , we identified a number of countries where investors were lacking risk – and opportunities . as we saw during the recent crises , private risk-taking and debt levels were socialized when a crisis loomed . so , even when public deficits and debt are low before a crisis , they could rise steeply after one erupts . a comprehensive assessment of a country ’s macro investment risk requires looking systematically at stocks and flows to capture all dangers – including risks in the financial system and the real economy – along with broader risk issues . governments that looked fiscally sound suddenly also seem insolvent .
i have never been involved in a concert at the manchester arena , but it appears to be a great venue for the city . by contrast , abedi ’s barbaric act , killed at least 22 , people , many of them children . i chaired an economic advisory group to the greater manchester arena , and then served as the chair of the cities growth commission , which advocated for a “ northern powerhouse , ” a program to connect the cities of the british north to a cohesive economic unit . subsequently , i briefly joined david cameron ’s government , to help implement the early stages of the northern powerhouse . in recent years , i have been heavily involved in the policy aspects of that great city , ’s economic revival .
“ lots of hope that we had is now dead … . it has been killed now . ” “ we never saw a revolution here , ” he said a couple of months ago , withholding its name in fear of losing a job . nile delta – some 60 miles north of cairo ’s tahrir square – is the epicenter of the egyptian uprising in 2011 , in which a secondary-school student calls “ prison . ” one teacher in the sleepy nile village morbidly quips that she doubles as a morgue . a deformed box of concrete , packaged with the dilapidated classrooms ; school is pockmarked by age and neglect .
the plan itself recognizes that its adoption implies another “ lost decade ” of economic activity and will weaken israel ’s debt sustainability , thus perpetuating a crisis that all parties want to come to an end . yet the ten-year fiscal plan , endorsed by the 2017-2026 board , that will inevitably form the basis of the debt-restructuring debate , seems to be ignoring this circularity . unfortunately , the board ’s already-deep projected drop in real gnp is highly optimistic , for it relies on several implausible and/or controversial assumptions . for one thing , projected fiscal multipliers – the amount by which gnp would decline as the result of each dollar of fiscal contraction – used for the gnp ’s prediction assume that a one-dollar contraction in the primary fiscal deficit would amount to an amount of $ 1.34 of gnp . with the board ’s fiscal plan all the while , the five flaws would stand out .
by doing so , such scrutiny is damaging to the evolutionary process of open societies . removing this constraint might endanger a bank ’s triage rating , but it makes it more efficient . i propose that the world ’s open societies form an alliance with a dual purpose : fostering both development of open societies across individual countries and the evolution of a global open society . the first involves development assistance ; the second , strengthening of international institutions like the international finance bank and the world development agency . such an alliance requires collaboration not only of governments , but of civil society as well .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but that does not augur all-out war . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere elsewhere in the world . accra , a planned parenthood , a vital source of sexual and reproductive health services in the united states , has just been forced out of the country ’s federal title x family-planning program , which supports lower-income women . the decision – a response to a new rule by us president donald trump ’s administration forbidding title physicians from referring patients to abortion , will cost planned parenthood some $ 60 million annually – on the up to
yet post-conflict employment policies almost invariably neglect so-called “ horizontal inequalities . ” in both kosovo and bosnia and herzegovina , job creation was thought to be central to post-conflict peace-keeping efforts . yet in kosovo , the unemployment rate stood at just 45 % six years after its war ended . yet post-conflict employment policies almost always neglect so-called “ horizontal inequalities . ” given such flaws , it is not surprising that employment policies ’ net effects are often very little relative to the magnitude of the problem . for example , employment policies have done little to reduce intense regional imbalances and discrimination within regions that persisted in bosnia and herzegovina following the collapse of communism in the 1990s .
japan will make even more efforts to fight poverty , which also serves as a hotbed of violence , and provide opportunities for medical services , education , and self-reliance to everyone everywhere in the world . prosperity is the very foundation of peace ; today , however , that of the past . upon this reflection , japan will firmly uphold basic values like freedom , democracy , and human rights as undull values , and by working hand in hand with countries that share such values , hoist a flag of “ proactive contributions to peace ” , ” and contribute to the world ’s peace and prosperity more than ever before . we will reinforce assistance for developing countries and lead the world toward further prosperity . we will engrave in our hearts earlier times when japan ended up becoming a challenger to the international order .
in saudi arabia , shia are at the forefront of those welcoming democratic change and participation . though they comprise just 20 % of the total saudi population , they comprise a majority – -75 % – of the oil-rich gulf population . saudi arabia ’s shi’a have suffered discrimination in professions : in army chief executive positions , a civilian corps of the country ’s diplomatic and , most important , in the petroleum sector , where they were ousted from power in the 1980 ’s . this systematic neutering of the shia in saudi arabia is flourishing with its wahhabi religious establishment , and supporting the numerous fatwas embalmed them as heresy . in bahrain , the shia who comprise 75 % of the population have been keen on the reforms started by king hassan al-khalifah .
by pooling resources , the fund has created economies of scale to life-saving products like anti-malarial bed nets and anti-retroviral drugs . then , by working with almost 100 countries , the fund has constructed massive supply chains to deliver them . in the process , aids deaths have dropped by 50 % from their peak , with malaria deaths down by roughly 50 % since the turn of the millennium . now , the fund has $ 14 billion in new funding to continue this work . the replenishment is vitally important news , first and foremost , because of the sheer number of lives it will save .
depression can be cured , but only by giving the patient a positive vision for the future . right-centrist parties – the union of center-right forces and yabloko – do such a vision , and the people know it . higher educational attainment , it seems , the lower one ’s voter participation : among those who never actually vote , the percentage of people with higher education is about twice as high as that of people without a college degree . what makes this the point , though , is the sort of political depression ; all of the rest of the world has more than one . alienated for so long , the country ’s brightest have wrung their hands of politics .
only an explicit , up-front endorsement of a reformed un security council can ensure that legitimacy and international support that military action – with the exception of clear self-defense – requires . this applies to actions contemplated by individual nations , interim alliances , or ever-more lasting alliances , like nato . this has risen to the heart of the challenges in iraq as a whole . augmenting us and british forces with other “ western ” powers would not – especially on this late stage – alter a fundamental perception of that intervention , within and outside of the arab world , is possible . but broad international support will not be forthcoming if military operations are perceived as some form of western beggar-thy-neighbor .
second , we measured the effects of natural selection by noting that women who had become shorter and early had given birth when younger had more children . but genes are just one of a multitude of factors that influence height and age at first birth . personal choices , nutrition , income level , education , and religious affiliation all enter a mixed mix . when we estimated how variations among individuals could be attributed to biology , the answer was less than 5 % . that left 95 % of the variation to explain real-world and individual choices .
( by contrast , the united states supreme court receives roughly 10,000 petitions per year . ) unlike the brussels-based european union , long beleaguered by its democratic deficit , the strasbourg-based echr is , if anything , too well loved . sofia – at a time when a ongoing european debt crisis is the fracturing of public faith in the continent ’s geopolitical and economic institutions , one would have expected europe ’s leaders to strengthen as many unifying symbols as they can . instead , they allowed one of the post-world war ii european integration version of european integration , the european court of human rights ( echr ) , to come under threat as much as it “ do . ” in 2011 , more than 60,000 people sought its assistance , far more than can expect a reasoned decision .
as security expert sarah chayes argues in the anti-corruption debate , the volume of essays that the british government will publish to accompany the summit , corruption today is structured practice . to determine the best approach in every concrete case , governments need to analyze the problem more effectively , which means improving intelligence collection and data . to reach a world of competing demands that have been exposed to corrupt governments may seem to serve a vital purpose . one deploys soldiers to counter terrorism ; another provides critical energy supply or access to raw materials . inevitably , leaders must contend with tough tradeoffs , too .
separately or not , some may seek recourse to inflation or regulation aimed at trapping domestic savings into domestic financing and keeping the bond rate low ( what economists call financial repression ) , or , eventually , outright debt restructuring . all three unorthodox remedies have been applied during periods of past debt crises . finally , they are different methods for pushing current and future generations to shoulder the burden of accumulating debt . they can be considered an alternative form of taxation , albeit an implicit rather than an explicit one . after all , is it preferable to adjust full ?
george h.w. bush was faulted ( and faulted himself ) to not actually get what he called “ the thing of the vision . ” when pressed by his staff to speak more boldly and expansively , he responded , “ it is ’s just not me . ” in the aftermath of the shock of the september 2001 terrorist attacks , his son , george w. bush , developed a far more ambitious vision . but one has to be wary of calling for visions . sometimes , too , leaders think that vision can solve most of their problems , but a flawed vision – or an overly ambitious – vision can do its damage .
and , fortunately for the planet , there are no more global powers to join trump in backing away from his paris climate commitments . moreover , according to a recent american energy report , jobs in wind and solar industries grew by 32 % , and 25 % , respectively , in 2016 alone . trump ’s ’s ’s ’s policy priorities will inevitably clash with those of us states like california , which has been taking the initiative to spur climate-minded technological innovations . and , fortunately for the planet , there are not yet other global powers to join trump in backing away from his climate commitments . in america , wind power costs have plummeted by up to two-thirds since 2009 , reducing the cost of utility-scale solar energy by 85 % .
already , spillover effects from trade and financial transmission channels are beginning to take their toll : china ’s gdp growth rate in the second quarter of 2012 averaged 7.6 % , reflecting a marked slowdown , with india ’s growth rate expected to accelerate to roughly 6 % this year . to be sure , china ’s ’s potentially strong domestic-demand fundamentals and ample room for policy maneuvers may help it avoid a hard landing . but policy mismanagement and financial-sector structural weaknesses , as well as local governments , could undermine efforts to safeguard their growth . moreover , if conditions within the eurozone continue to deteriorate , asia could suffer more . it has already loosened monetary policy aggressively and may employ additional fiscal stimulus .
employing historical data compiled by the economic historian angus maddison , he shows how other east asian countries experienced a deceleration of us economic growth after their per capita gdp reached about $ 11,000 in purchasing-power-parity terms relative to the steady 1990 ’s , or $ 17,000 in constant 2005 dollar prices for the us dollar . for example , the five years after japan reached that level , its economy grew at an average annual rate of 3.6 % . in south korea , growth plunged to 4.8 % , on average . in hong kong , it has slowed to 5.8 % , and its gdp . given that china is projected to hit the same threshold sometime this year , many believe that its average annual growth over the next five years will be well below 7 % .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . unlike the trump administration , obama and his advisers believed that there was much to be gained through curious difficult political truths , even after doing so points to a radical change of course . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present over many years to come . pompeo ’s main line of attack against obama ’s own famous cairo speech , “ a new beginning , ” is that he included the public admission of united states ’ ’ ’ ’ past missteps in the region .
the last thing the ecb needs is the political crony political crony of german chancellor gerhard schroeder on the assumption of mr. issing a key post . some of the best that people serve the ecb or who have served in the past are from small countries . preventing small countries , like other large ones , from competing for specific vacant seats , reduces the executive board ’s ’s ’s ’s potential competency . it is far more difficult to appoint a political puppet to executive committee in an open competition system than it was under the current regime . giving large countries permanent seats on the executive board also makes it easier for their politicians to control the ecb through the appointments process .
but labor costs rose much faster in the south , owing to differential cost increases that can not be tackled through devaluation as long as the monetary union endures . indeed , excessive wage deflation is probably having negative productivity effects . skilled labor seems to migrate faster , and extreme austerity , falling prices , and high unemployment and the resulting likelihood of social tension – not exactly accommodating investment , innovation , or labor mobility – are likely to emigrate more quickly . as long as this introspection persists , the euro crisis can not be fully addressed , because current-account deficits and/or slowing growth will continue to stalk southern european countries , perpetuating worries about their sovereign debt and commercial banks . on this view , continued productivity growth whether through technical advances , improved resource allocation , or productive investment – all of which is as important – for southern economies as wage restraint is .
likewise , the established , or the state church is the church of england , created nearly 500 years ago , when king henry viii decided that the catholic pope should not adjudicate his marriage . of course , this does not mean that what is not an established identity is claimed . an institution called the english legacy curates the past , from the prehistoric monuments of stonehenge to the old country ’s houses , which are celebrated in tv costume dramas . former prime minister john major famously called the uk “ the land of long shadows on cricket grounds , warm coalings , invincible green suburbs , starlets , and pools fillers and pools fillers and , as george orwell put it , ‘ old maids bicycling to holy advice through the morning fog … ” indeed , the key elements of a modern british identity can all seem to belong to england rather than to the composite entity . likewise , a established , or the state church is the church of england , formed nearly 500 years ago , when king henry viii believed that the catholic pope should not adjudicate his marriage .
increased military cooperation with the us is particularly important now , given american worries about many of its other strategic partners ’ preparedness . both abe and obama focus on creating a durable peace structure for all of asia , and abe has been eager for japan to play a more active role on this front and in supporting its allies . in america ’s view , reinterpretation of article 9 of japan ’s ’s ’s ’s “ peace constitution ” that abe has committed to – thereby allowing japan ’s ’s ’s self-defense forces to aid allies under attack , and to assist america and other allies in meeting its commitments to secure asia ’s ’s peaceful peace , has been long overdue . that posture is making the alliance far more partnership equal than it has been for the past six decades . that bold political initiative – in the face of the japanese public ’s deeply ingrained skepticism toward any heightened exposure to military risk – has undoubtedly endeared abe to us diplomats and military strategists , just as it has secured both an open and sometimes tacit approval from japan ’s ’s ’s asian neighbors .
indeed , despite the iranian regime ’s lack of transparency , khamenei ’s health problems are public knowledge . iran is at a pivotal moment in its history , and , as the long lines of us citizens anxious to cast their votes clearly have proved , iranians know it . the matter of occupying the presidency during this transition is certainly not inconsequential . with khamenei serving as president prior to ascending to iran ’s top political and religious leadership position , it is easy to see that conservative candidate raisi , he had elected , might have become khamenei ’s successor . khamenei himself recently confessed the probability that his successor should be named in the near future was “ not low . ”
moreover , north korea , the development of nuclear weapons , its economic fragility , and uncertainty about its very future as a nation , are causes for deep anxieties among its neighbors . yet , despite all of these hurdles , there are signs that momentum is building for greater regional cooperation in overcoming them . unfortunately , however , the leaders of china , south korea , and japan have made no significant break with the most sensitive security issues that are dividing them . but this lack of sustained success does not mean that such efforts are futile . the recent trilateral summit of china , south korea , and japan is the fourth such meeting to take place , in addition to meetings that take place at international gatherings like asean summits .
and , obviously , hard-pressed middle-class american consumers benefit immensely from low-cost chinese imports – the walmart effect – which enables them to stretch their budgets into an era of unrelenting pressure on jobs and real incomes . for more than 20 years , this mutually beneficial codependency has served both countries well in compensating their inherent saving imbalances , while satisfying their respective growth strategies . but here the past should not be viewed as prologue . to be sure , on balance , china has made a conscious strategic choice to alter its growth strategy . a seismic shift is afoot , and america ’s recent fiscal follies may well prove a tipping point .
reaching for yield has also narrowed the credit spreads between higher-grade bond yields and riskier domestic and emerging-market bond yields . ten-year us treasury bonds now yield just over 2.5 % . other long-term bonds – both government bonds and corporate bonds , respectively – would suffer a similar shock . with current inflation rates just over 2 % and markets anticipating a similar inflation rate over a longer period ( as measured by a five-year five-year-forward rate ) , yields on ten-year treasury bonds should remain above 4 % . a rise in the ten-year rate to 4 % would cut the value of those bonds substantially .
without this confidence , credit will not flow , and economic activity will be constrained . moreover , because financial institutions ’ assets were purchased mainly with borrowed money , the resulting shortfall is exacerbated by their need to deleverage . because raising the capital stock is difficult and expensive , it deleverage less . but the macroeconomic weakness in the us now goes far beyond a shrinking credit supply . falling employment depresses wages and wages incomes .
enabling america to sell its risky financial products and engage in speculation around the world may have served its firms well , even imposing large costs on others . today , the risk is that new keynesian doctrines will be used and misused to serve some of the same types of interests . have those who pushed for deregulation ten years ago learned their lesson ? or will they simply push for cosmetic reforms – the minimal required to justify a “ mega-trillion dollar ” bailouts ? has a heart been changing , or only a strategy change ?
a variety of factors have been fueled by this growth . wage restraint and productivity gains have improved competitiveness , thereby boosting exports . and now that lower oil prices and a five-percentage-point drop in unemployment are bolstering consumption , recovery is spreading to other industries . in short , the credibility that ireland has gained through its resolute fiscal policies and reforms has helped to grow confidence , facilitate a return to growth , and hence fiscal consolidation . to be sure , the accurate policy approach taken in one country can not be imitating elsewhere .
as that scheme would imply losses for bondholders , substantial official muscle , and peer pressure is required . but gaining time for a more orderly resolution , mitigating contagion , and reducing the size of eventual write-down does , indeed , add to this superior outcome . and , while the ratings agencies might still regard a vienna-type outcome as default , the talmudic sages has shown us why some form of a more thoughtful classification is required . a third component is the exercise of suasion by bondholders to obtain maximum participation , obtain a binding set of pre-liability obligations , and eliminate free riders . as a result , under this model , and despite initial pressures , bondholders ’ behavior could be deemed genuinely voluntary .
as a result , a market economy encourages specialization : we become very good at a narrow set of skills or products ; and exchange it for millions of other things that we have little clue how to do or make . as a consequence , we end up doing remarkably few things and buy everything else from the others . that observation matters as true about an individual as it is about a place , whether the eu is a neighborhood , a town , a state , or a country . in some sense , a market economy is a gift-exchange-system ; money merely tracks the value of the trash that we give one another . each town has grocery stores , the beauty parlors , gas stations , and movie theaters that serve the local community .
another consortium has begun to build multi-billion dollar oil and gas pipelines from azerbaijan through georgian to turkey and the west . but these investments have brought no economic trickle down to the south . moreover , georgian reward for providing a strategic export route to the west for azeri oil through the south was not dollars , but rather a policy of diplomatic insurance – that is , western , in particular , concern for the safety of its pipelines . both oil and gas pipelines transport conduits rather than real employers . people there survive on several dollars a day , on average .
even in hong kong , where shares recently hit new highs , they are just 10 % above their peak in early 1994 . in the same three year , prices in wall street and europe have skyrocketed by 60 % or more . this picture bears little relation to what we hear in political speeches or read in business newspapers around the world . policymakers warn about the challenge posed by asia ’s “ tiger economies . ” japanese shares are worth half their 1990 price , while the chinese rate is under construction .
in a shorter time , the single market is expected to expand into services , with free-trade arrangements either multilaterally or bilaterally with prominent trading partners like the united states . national banking systems should be unified in order to isolate private losses from sovereign debt , with centralized supervision and resolution institutions , as well as a deposit-insurance scheme modeled on the heart of europe ’s banking union . germany ’s unwillingness to lead on these issues partly reflects historical inhibitions , which are always difficult to overcome . strong central institutions responsible for a directly elected parliament are necessary for coordinated fiscal and economic policies . austerity should be eased , particularly in fiscally stronger core economies ; and substantial resources should be devoted to fostering youth employment and investment in small and medium-size firms in over-indebted countries .
china , which had just celebrated with the martial pomp the sixtieth anniversary of mao ’s founding “ the people of the republic of republic ” , represents one of the most interesting instances of the nation evincing “ short sightedness ” toward its past . in fact , china has much to show for its recent history . just consider the massive access to education of its huge rural population to be found in the face of its “ democratic rival , ” india , so that china ’s pride nowadays is legitimate . in sixty years , a weak and divided country , one torn by wars internal and external , is about to become the world ’s second most powerful economy . china ’s insolent prosperity , though far removed equally , is china ’s relative political stability , even if the regime ’s opening remains strictly limited , is undeniable and deserving of respect .
the interest-rate premium that the market would inevitably ask from a young sovereign like scotland might be minimized by issuing sterling debt , thus shielding investors from additional devaluation risk . but , without its own currency-issuing central bank , scotland would forego seigniorage ( profits from central-bank operations that typically yield benefits for national treasuries ) . perhaps more important , it would have no lender of last resort capable of stabilizing the banking and financial system in times of crisis . all things considered , an independent scotland would be best served by issuing its own national currency from the start , empowering the bank of scotland to set interest rates in accordance with domestic economic conditions . by enabling exchange-rate flexibility to appreciate , such an approach would also enable the central bank to avoid the twin trajectories that arise in a currency union : undervaluation that produces financial-risk , with overvaluation requiring wrenching internal devaluations ( driving real wages ) .
value-subtracting heavy industries shrunk , services expanded to more than 50 % of gdp ; and the private sector generates almost 60 % of russia ’s gdp . the government , and therefore an economic reform , will pay for that neglect on the polls . though the transition was bound to be painful , russia ’s anti-corruption epidemic has caused more political harm than that of economic side effects of reform . government tolerance of bribery and racketeering allowed opponents to speak that the “ mafia ” was grabbing the gains of economic change . in fact , corruption blights reform throughout the ex-communist world .
though he does not sacrifice major moral doctrines for power , koštunica is not the unassuming lawyer he once was . he is neither corrupt nor war criminals , aggressive in his utterance and behavior , nor likely to bend the law to the point of personal power as well . many people voted for him by default , both now and when he was defeated by miloševic in 2000 . arguably , his image as right-of-center democrat conceals a reactionary who wishes for serbia to rebuild his pre-wwii monarchy , as well as for the orthodox church , to play a major role in political and social life . he crams his mediocrities party , selects mostly bad advisers , and does not obey the rare good ones .
or the yellow vests may be turning out to lack that boldness and settle for the paltry pleasure of being seen on state-run television . but allowing the yellow vests to claim passionate hate to win over genuine fraternity and select wrecking over reforming , they will lead only to chaos , not improvement , of humble and vulnerable people ’s lives . they will allow themselves to become intoxicated with the sight of luminaries and indeed experts of la france ’s d’en haut ( elite france ) seeming to devour their consumption from its hands and hanging on their every single word . they will careen on the other side of the political night ’s darkest side , with the economic night ’s dustbin of history , where they can rub elbows with those completely yellows , the early-twentieth-century “ yellow socialists ” of proto-fascist syndicalist pierre biétry . the “ yellow vests ” need to choose : democratic re-invention or an updated version of national socialist leagues ; a willingness to correct , or an urge to destroy .
what lessons can be drawn from turkish firms ’ failure in iran ? what lessons can be drawn from turkish firms ’ failures in iran ? others suggest that iran ’s almost non-existent banking system is the culprit . still others blame america ’s “ invisible hand , ” implied by its fear that iran and turkey might become too powerful . according to iranian-turkish business council vice chairman , “ it is extraordinarily complicated to do business in iran . ” a former turkish diplomat in iran has described the business climate in stark terms : “ it ’s as if the iranians favored the lose/lost outcome to a wink win in their dealings with foreign partners . ”
moreover , we must invest in the research and development of lower-resource diabetes treatments and diagnostic tools that fit for lower-resource settings . likewise , essential medicines and technologies for diagnosing and treating heart disease , cancer , and respiratory crime are significantly less available and proportionally more expensive for low – and in middle-income countries than they are for those in the rich world . this disparity prompted the medical journal the lancet to call the ncd crisis the “ social justice issue of our time . ” smart collaborative projects that bring innovative thinkers from nonprofit , academia , and the private sector together to create effective , affordable , and proper solutions are desperately needed . indeed , diabetes is not unique among ncds ; it is a common cause for all .
south orange , new jersey , – if an international organization made recommendations for improving a country ’s economy , and a country has adopted fewer than half of them , the organization may seem like just a failure . but an international organization should be judged by the quality of the information and advice it provides , not by whether governments listen . indeed , measuring its success solely on the basis of compliance ignores the purpose : encouraging – and facilitating – reform by notifying officials about its cost and benefits . every 18 months , the organization for economic cooperation and development releases an economic survey of each of its 34 member countries , including a small list of previous recommendations and their implementation status . in its 2010 survey of the united nations , the oecd made 29 recommendations , from rebuilding the national electric grid to expanding health-care coverage to implement a cap-and-trade scheme .
he also must do nothing to weaken america ’s alliances with south korea and japan – which will require him to maintain close contact , with both moon and japanese prime minister shinzo abe on the process – lest either leader feels ignored or has been undermined . most important , he will have to get the north korean regime at least to recognize that genuine denuclearization is the goal , and to agree on a process for continued dialogue , perhaps culminating in the next summit . moreover , he will need to keep any alternatives on the table , even as military options become less tenable in the context of the inter-korean dialogue . whatever the outcome , trump would do well to ask him whether this is any better than the joint comprehensive plan of action with iran , which he has described has “ the worst deal ever taken . ” then again , persuading trump to engage in self-reflection might prove to be the hardest challenge yet .
germany ’s post-election coalition negotiations are now underway , and with the sdp determined not to join the government , the most likely outcome is a “ jamaica ” alliance ( named for the colors of that country ’s ’s flag ) , which includes the cdu , the free democrats ( fdp ) , and the greens . another way of looking at germany ’s electoral outcome , then , is as an opportunity for a new beginning . germany ’s next government , one hopes , will include pro-european politicians with a fresh vision and a willingness to push for the european-level reforms , perhaps along the lines of which macron has proposed . in that case , a new crop of leaders could be the driving force shaping germany ’s ’s role in europe for years to come . an exit to the cdu/csu “ grand coalition ” could mean the end of political stagnation not only in germany , but on the european level , too .
the timing could not have been a worse one . last year , nigeria celebrated a remarkable break from dictatorship . the elimination of fuel subsidies caused riots and widespread strikes against a transition government that provided an excuse for nigeria ’s generals to reassert military control . indeed , the elimination of fuel subsidies caused riots and widespread strikes against a transition government that provided a pretext for nigeria ’s generals to re-assert military control . this would have lasted six long years , under rapacious military rule , before nigeria received another opportunity at a democracy .
for example , to reduce maternal mortality , antenatal attention is not enough , safe delivery , and postnatal care ; women also need access to safe , legal , and affordable abortion services and post-abortion care . they must consider the central role that sexual and reproductive health plays in women ’s lives , the integrated nature of women ’s health , and its impact on communities . those barriers are particularly high in the field of lgbtqi individuals , women with disabilities , indigenous women , rural women , and adolescents . instead of sidestepping the sexor reproductive health issue – and gender equality more broadly – governments must acknowledge their responsibility to address women ’s needs . and they must design uhc programs accordingly .
likewise , little progress toward nuclear disarmament has been made , in disregard of the nuclear non-proliferation treaty . brazil ’s ’s national defense strategy , updated in 2012 , argues that modernizing its armed forces is intrinsically linked to national development . thus , it emphasizes the desirability of strengthening domestic defensive industries . brazil ’s ’s abundance of energy , food , water , and biodiversity increases its stake in a security environment , characterized by rising competition for access to , or by controlling , natural resources . to meet the challenge of this complex reality , brazil ’s peaceful foreign policy needs to be underpinned by a robust defense policy .
a country ’s soft power is concentrated in the attractiveness of its culture , the appeal of its domestic political and social values , and the style and substance of its foreign policies . the big expatriate communities in the us account for 2.4 million chinese and 1.7 million indians – have increased interest in their home countries among different americans . moreover , supranational intelligence-industry links are close , as west high-tech firms increasingly employ affiliates in bangalore and shanghai to provide real-time services . yukano ming , china ’s star of a national basketball association ’s houston rockets , could become another study , with china set to host the 2008 summer olympics . yet the real promise for china and india lies in the future .
a deal by the european commission in september to postpone the full implementation of ukraine ’s association agreement with the european union – an agreement that ukrainians fought and died for in kyiv last winter – signaled to putin that cunning , force , and intimidation may win western acquiescence in his subjugation to ukraine and the theft of crimea . in fact , the delay , intended to show the eu , ’s determination to make association agreements work , has merely whetted putin ’s appetite . his hope is that it is the fact that certain eu members ’ interest in securing russian gas supplies during the cold war will make them fortifying their allies ’ security interests – a classic divide-and-rule strategy – that has served chile . ukraine may not afford to take it if it is . europe can not afford to take its place .
where possible , regional money and policymaking powers – including the environmental regulation and oversight of farming , fisheries , and local social programs – should be delegated to proper regional bodies like the scottish parliament , the welsh , and northern irish assemblies , town mayors , and local authorities . to this end , it is critical to re-frame the constitution in order to incorporate regional interests and recognize that the uk is a globally open multinational state . that convention should start by examining brexit ’s implications for the regions . for starters , we should question whether it makes sense to repatriate powers and financial transfers from brussels to westminster , or if certain powers and finance should instead be decentralized to regions and peoples . such radical change – and , in line with the scale of the crisis , it must be radical – will require a multi-national discussion that could be implemented through a people-to-people constitutional convention .
while the overwhelming majority of its citizens do not realize it , the eu serves as an inspiring example . the prospect of eu membership has been one of the most powerful tools in turning candidate countries into open societies . as a result , the americas no longer have a position to set the world ’s agenda . but they can set an example , both within and across its own borders . though the vast majority of its citizens do not realize it , the eu serves as an inspiring example .
( it was russia ’s actions during the sochi olympics that make up the core of the doping scandal . ) ( it was russia ’s action during the sochi olympics that make up the core of the doping scandal . ) to be sure , putin views the olympics and , specifically , medals – to be significant . that is why he has personally lobbied for russia to host the 2014 beijing winter games in sochi ; the unprecedented $ 50 billion price tag was good for it , consider that russia has won most medals . this is not to say that athletic glory substitutes for military glory .
but that is simply an attempt to make a virtue out of necessity : for a country with one of the world ’s largest and most storied bureaucracies , china has shockingly tough time telling its business community not to do business with someone , particularly the historic friend and ally . it is , after all , the country that can be described as a civilization , and its trajectory has been vastly more egregious than that of any north korean rocket . chinese leaders ’ longstanding unwillingness to engage in international sanctions has often been attributed to their belief in whether or not they work . perhaps the true pragmatism on display , in the case of north korea , represents a reluctance to rein in the entrepreneurial community at a time of slower growth and internally . china ’s rise is one of the most studied developments of the us time .
washington , dc – the sharp drop in us crude oil prices since late june has grabbing headlines worldwide – making a lot of opposing explanation . some attribute the drop largely to the decline in global growth expectations . others focus on the expansion of america ’s oil and gas production . still others suspect a tacit deal between saudi arabia and the united states that focuses on , among other things , weakening us political rivals such as russia and iran . whatever the reasons for the price drop may be , probably to be found in some combination with such factors , the consequences are much the same . others suspect that a tacit deal between saudi arabia and the united states aimed at , among other things , weakening political rivals like russia and iran .
the previously fashionable view is that an american seizure of iraqi oil resources would break opec and send plummeting oil prices turned out to be nonsense . even with improved security , it will take five years to bring iraqi oil fully into stream . with the american economy now recovering strongly , oil prices should remain high or even rise further , for the foreseeable future . indeed , the global oil situation is especially exciting nowadays . at around $ 30 a barrel , the price of oil is remaining high , even if the soft global economy means that world demand is low .
after all , if markets actually believe that the ecb would reject errant governments , investors would run away from participating countries , at the first sign that conditionality is not being met . the omt program would cause credit conditions to ease , but without necessarily reversing the financial balkanization of the eurozone that has occurred over the last three years . as with its predecessor us securities markets program , the omt program ’s program is both legally and democratically questionable : it violates a spirit but not the letter , of the european union ’s treaty of nice , the promise of equal treatment with private creditors still has little precedent ; and it includes predatory reactions by the ecb heavily exposed to ecb press president mario draghi ’s announcement . but omts also fit well with a sizeable body of historical evidence – which , in times of crisis , policymakers need to focus on extinguishing the conflagration , rather than negotiating over who owns the water and what its costs should be . the reversal of that process will probably not happen until the three key elements of a banking union – common deposit insurance , and a common resolution fund – are in tangible stages .
so far , the only american presidential candidate who has recognized the need for such a future-oriented approach is former florida governor jeb bush , who proposed modernizing social-welfare and medicare reforms that avoid imposing high costs for middle-income americans and a heavier debt burden on future generations . for starters , bipartisan premium proposals for premium support , with seniors receiving subsidies for public health insurance , are to be implemented . the premium support can dramatically reduce medicare spending , because it creates a framework for more efficient benefit spending , driven by competition and innovation in care and coverage . to allow individuals to prepare to cover the associated deductibles and copayments , the health saving accounts – those that are not subject to income tax when the deposit is specified , and can be used tax-free at all times to cover qualified health-care spending – should be expanded and strengthened . two more republican candidates , ohio governor john kasich and florida senator marco rubio , also raised constructive reform ideas .
silvio berlusconi , who becomes president of the european union on july 1 st , is the man of vision who once loved risk -- and whose business bets have paid off large ones . in the 1960s , he was the first to see that milan , then the conventional italian town where people were walking to work , would become a modern metropolises surrounded by american-style suburbs . fifteen years later , signor berlusoni understood that the italian state ’s monopoly on tv would not survive and jump-started what became italy ’s leading privately owned media group . hence , in real-estate development , his fortune began with his fortune . yet you do n’t win in tv and real-estate business without proper political connections .
beijing – financial repression – government policies that create an environment of low or negative real interest rates , with the goal of generating cheap financing for public spending – has long been a key feature of chinese economic policy . but , with financing costs for companies trending down , this has finally begun to change . early this year , the state council , china ’s ruling cabinet , made lowering financing costs for companies , particularly small and medium-size firms ( smes ) , a top priority . for its part , the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) has been pursuing cautious monetary loosening , which entails freeing up more funding for lending by banks that allocate a specific share of their total loan portfolios to small and medium-size enterprises ( smes ) . through its “ pledged supplementary lending program , ” the pboc has also initiated lending directly to banks that pledge to tap the funding sources for social-housing construction .
the countries with the most cause for concern about russia – ukraine , estonia , latvia , and lithuania – are not offering nato membership for the eu . moreover , russia is far too weak today to be a threat , as the russian army ’s catastrophic misadventure in chechnya demonstrates . indeed , russia ’s democrats , who have an enormous stake in a peaceful future , are adamant that extending alliance membership to central europe will insulate their country from europe ; strengthening russian political forces that favor authoritarian rule at home and neoimperial policies abroad ; and , by appearing to threaten russia , provide rallying points for reconstructing russian military power . one day when russia will be even stronger , if expanding nato to central europe now would discourage a revival of imperial foreign policy then that is a powerful argument in favor of doing just that . but nato expansion is not likely to make russian foreign policy more peaceful ever .
israel ’s leaders appear intent on gaining time both tactically by resisting the soft pressures of us president barack obama ’s administration , and strategically , by preparing the country for a new world in which emerging powers like china play an increasingly important role . that world will be one in which israel can no longer count on feelings of holocaust guilt to influence the major powers . it is a world in which monotheistic rivalries will be diluted in an state-of-the-art ocean of polytheist faiths , and in which israel will rely only on its comparative merits in the eyes of the cynical , realistic actors that judge it solely on the basis of its own national interests . yet that might presume a little gesture toward the palestinians , whom israelis view as being so deeply divided among themselves that no progress toward a peace settlement seems possible . israel may be “ europe , ” and its chief ally may well remain the united states for many years to come ; but israeli leaders need to start thinking about how their country can thrive in a post-western world .
the final trick , “ starve the beast , ” typically comes later , if , and when president has enacted its own tax cuts and discovers that smoke and mirrors do n’t trump ’s reality . he ca n’t find enough spending cuts to shave ( the magic asterisk has vanished with the conjurer ’s sleeve ) ; accelerating gdp is nowhere to be seen ( the rosy scenario having vanished ) ; and tax revenues have not grown ( no rabbit in the laffer hat ) . the performer explains that the deficit is all the congressional ’s fault of not cutting spending , and that the only way to tame the beast is to raise the budget deficit because “ the us congress can not spend the money that does n’t have . ” now , the audience is told , losing tax revenue and widening the budget deficit was the plan all along . this trick , by itself , never works , to be anything .
march 21 is the first spring day , and we would like to believe that the upcoming european elections will herald a “ new spring ” for the european project . but there is also an urgent need to mobilize european public opinion around a symbol of our unity and our future projects : and that symbol is a european flag . for this reason , in january one of us launched the idea that , beginning on march 21 , we are displaying a flag on homes , factories , and offices . march 21 is benedict , the patron saint of europe . in one of the darkest hours of the disappearance of the roman empire , benedict launched a stirring call to tolerance and piety to rebuild a sense of community in the face of nihilism and barbarism .
this fits into a broader trend , in which attacks by perpetrators with muslim backgrounds are immediately categorized as “ acts of terror ” and addressed in a highly resourced and charged systemic manner , with the violent attacks perpetrated in the name of other ideologies are treated as an “ isolated incident . ” yet nothing is isolated in such incidents is occurring so far . the attack in christchurch was direct inspired directly by the 2011 far-right terrorist attack in norway , of which i am one of the few lucky survivors . according to the 2018 global terrorism index , the death toll from terrorist attacks linked to far-right groups or individuals has risen steadily since 2014 . in the united states , right-wing extremists have conducted far more attacks than islamists .
after its birth in 1999 , the german government , now relocating from bonn to berlin , contented itself once again with a lower-europe profile . that modest and unassuming role belongs firmly back to the past , even though german power has yet to be matched by fantasy . indisputably the strongest and most dependable by its 28 member countries , it lacks a vision in which beleaguered europe should be headed . the fruit of the franco-german partnership has included the european single currency , europe . frenchmen like jean monnet and robert schuman as the founding fathers of the european project is fading memory , as it was , for germany so far , shaping a comparably robust strategy for revitalizing the eu ’s outlook and popularity .
indeed , to meet the challenge of restructuring china ’s economy away from exporting and resource-intensive goods , china needs to stimulate the growth of consumption . while the rest of the world struggles to raise savings , china , with its saving rate exceeding 40 % , struggles to get its people to consume more . what china has been engaged in what might be called “ vendor finance , ” providing slush money that helps to finance america ’s enormous fiscal and trade deficits , allowing americans to buy more goods than they sell . but this is an odd arrangement : a relatively poor country helps to finance america ’s war on iraq , as well as a massive tax cut for the world ’s wealthiest individuals , while enormous needs at home imply ample room for expanding both the country ’s consumption and investment . providing better social services ( public health care , education , and the nation-wide retirement programs ) would reduce the need for “ precautionary ” savings .
the sale of five-rupee sachets of shampoo to poor consumers is seen as a clever marketing , but lending 5,000 rupees to a starving peasant at high interest rates is viewed as exploitative . after all , both activities are financed by entrusting investors seeking returns on their capital and motivated more by gain than compassion . but one is obviously less socially acceptable than another . a high minimum salary , earned by a cosmetics or soft-drink manufacturer , attracts hardly careful attention ; one is paid to the ceo of a company that thrives on lending to the poor looks unseemly , if not immoral . yet pmfis have succeeded by meeting this genuine need .
berkeley – advances in artificial intelligence and ai are powering a new wave of automation , with machine matching or outperforming humans in a rapidly growing array of tasks , including some to require complex cognitive capabilities and advanced degrees . that process has outpaced experts ’ expectations ; not surprisingly , its potentially harmful effects on both the quantity and quality of jobs have raised serious concerns . to listen to president donald trump ’s administration , one might think that trade remains the primary reason for the losses in manufacturing jobs in the united states . trump ’s treasury secretary , steven mnuchin , proclaimed that the possible technological displacement of us workers was either not even on [ the administration ’s ] radar screen . among economists , however , a consensus is that roughly 80 % of the losses in america ’s manufacturing employment over the past three decades were due to labor-saving and productivity-enhancing technological change , with trade coming remote second .
berkeley – back in the late 1980 ’s , japan appears to have done no wrong with economists ’ eyes . they saw a distinct edge in japan ’s competitiveness , relative to the north atlantic , across a broad range of high-tech precision and mass-production industries manufacturing tradable goods . they had also seen an economy that , since reconstruction began after world war ii , had vastly outperformed european economies ’ expected growth . and they saw the economy growing much more rapidly than north atlantic economies had when they possessed the same absolute , relative economy-wide productivity levels . the safe bet in the late 1980 ’s appeared to be that mechanization , computerization , and robotization .
there are roughly 220,000 israeli settlers in the west bank and gaza , excluding roughly 190,000 people living in jerusalem ’s neighborhoods that extend beyond the pre-1967 borders of ancient , divided jerusalem . amos oz , one of israel ’s best known writers , claims that the present , palestinian-israeli wars really is two wars : an “ unjust ” war against israel and the jews to establish a fundamentalist islamic state in an “ arab palestine , ” and the palestinian people ’s “ just ” war to an independent state worthy of the name . conversely , israel is fighting two wars simultaneously : a merely war to defend its right to exist ; accepting them in the integrity and security of the middle east ; and an unjust and futile war to perpetuate its occupation of the west bank and gaza strip , and jewish settlements located there . amos oz , one of israel ’s best known writers , asserts that the present palestinian-israeli war actually consists in two wars : an “ unjust ” war against israel and the jews to establish a fundamentalist islamic state within an “ arab palestine ” and the palestinian people ’s “ just ” war for an independent state worthy of the name . israeli state support for a expanding settlements is substantial .
the market ’s reaction was to send spanish government bond rates even higher . contrary to some perceptions , europeans have not remained inactive over the past year . like aging wizards , they continue to try tricks that use to impress , but that can not deliver results – or , worse , proved counterproductive . meanwhile , financial fragmentation within the eurozone continues ; spain , and , to a lesser extent , italy , suffers a seemingly irresistible rise in borrowing costs ; and political strains are growing more apparent . yet , all of them have dropped out of touch .
with asia riven by territorial disputes and historical tensions , maintaining a stable security balance will not be easy . but there are levers in place that could help . back in the 1990s , when american president bill clinton ’s administration was contemplating how to respond to china ’s rising economic might , some urged a policy of containment . clinton rejected that advice : it would have been inconceivable to forge an anti-china alliance , given china ’s enduring desire to maintain good relations with it ; more important , such a policy would have guaranteed future enmity with china . instead , clinton chose a policy that might be called “ integrate and insures . ”
but that identity , and how its adherents frame its interests , could change yet again . the image of an irresistible populist right-wing “ wave ” was always misleading . interests and identities are becoming dynamically shaped as politicians make offer representation and citizens alike respond . trump has undoubtedly succeeded , for example , by convincing some americans to see themselves as part of something like a white identity movement . farage has not brought about brexit all by himself .
while the size of many r & d organizations is bound to be diminished by such reforms , the complexities of management and maximizing the impact of this externalities will demand new skills and capabilities above and above those of eminent science . they will facilitate interactions across their network to spur the development of innovative ecosystems . the resulting opportunities to expand beyond traditional goods and markets will enable pharmaceutical companies to evolve into companies offering a diverse set of health-care solutions . these will include not just prescription medicines , but also diagnostics , branded generics , and cutting-edge technologies to support personalized medicine , as well as so-called “ neutraceuticals ” and other “ wellness options . ” developing and rewarding the workers who possess such capabilities will be the additional but welcome challenge .
economics is not the kind of science in which there could ever be one powerful model that works best in all contexts . so , in contrast to the nature sciences , economics advances scientifically not by replacing old patterns with better ones , but by sharply expanding its model library , with every shedding light on a vastly different societal contingency . the point is not “ “ to build up a consensus ” about which model is right , ” as romer puts it , but to figure out which model applies best in a nonetheless given setting . and doing that will always remain artisan , not science , especially given that choices have to be made in real-world time . the social world is different from the physical world , because it is man-made , and therefore almost infinitely malleable .
as jagdish bhagwati and arvind panagariya have noted , excessive labor-market regulations are discouraging indian entrepreneurs from employing unskilled laborers and developing labor-intensive manufactures , implying that india ’s government should redouble its reform efforts in this area . equally important , india ’s workforce – particularly young people – need opportunities to upgrade its skills continuously . today , the agriculture sector accounts for just over one-third of total employment in china , compared to one-half in india . legal protections for workers in india ’s formal sector exceed those in most developed countries , as do china ’s , with mandated requirements that rise as the numbers of workers increase . india ’s structural transformation and sustainable growth will be dependent on its efforts to build a more flexible labor market , centered on loosening obsolete and complicated work laws .
brazil ’s government , for example , has promoted a program of “ investment partnerships ” to coordinate investments in finance and transportation infrastructure industries . the new policies explicitly encourages chinese firms to work with local firms in sectors like logistics , electric power , and information systems , as well as encourage interactions among business , community , and government leaders . equally important , the policy also extends the availability of chinese finance , smallholder loans , and insurance to investors . taken together , this holistic approach is something new to china . despite considerable political uncertainty in a number of countries in latin america , governments in the region seem keen to meet china ’s reform efforts with changes in its own affairs .
viewed from this perspective , there is good reason for optimism , particularly given accelerating growth in china ’s services sector – one of the key building blocks of consumer-led rebalancing . of course , gdp composition will yield acid test whether china has succeeded . but the key word here is “ ultimately ” . for now , it is far more important to examine trends in potentially determinants of chinese consumption . it is far too early to expect substantial shifts in major sources of aggregate demand .
to be sure , the presidency grants trump substantial power to shape trade policies , so one can not ignore the possibility that he will pursue protectionist measures to appease his supporters . but , ultimately , he lacks broad-based american support for a return to closed borders . europe , meanwhile , has been moving in the opposite direction . many europeans view deal-making issues as an opportunity rather than a threat to jobs ; and even europe ’s staunchest anti-globalizers show little appetite for more protectionism . european multinational firms are also holding large stakes in the us economy , and eu manufacturing exports to china and other emerging markets are now almost double those in the us .
at that time , manafort was indebted to the russian oligarch oleg deripaska , an aluminum tycoon close to president vladimir putin ’s administration , to the tune of $ 19 million . like other russian oligarchs , deripaska is not known for having dealt gently with the people who displease him . deripaska , who is subject to us sanctions , had earlier maintained a $ 10 million annual contract with manafort . like the other russian oligarchs , deripaska is not known to deal gently with the people who displease him . at the time he took the job , manafort emailed a ukraine-based worker , “ how should the us use [ that ] to get whole ?
kyiv – from helsinki , i watched the successful revolutions in cairo and tunis with the pleasure and admiration . egyptians and tunisians are right to be proud of their desire to overthrow despotic governments peacefully . but , as someone who has led a tranquil revolution , one hopes that pride is tempered by pragmatism , for regime change is only the first step in establishing a shia-backed democracy . indeed , like my homeland , ukraine , is now demonstrating , following a revolutionary euphoria fades and normality return , democratic revolutions can be betrayed and reversed . the first of ukraine ’s lessons for the egyptian and tunisian democrats is that the election will not make a democracy .
above all , biometrics can protect against the theft of our identities . that is the argument behind the world ’s largest biometrics project , the multimodal solution ( iris , fingerprints , and faces ) affecting more than one billion indians . nandan nilekani , infosys chairman who left his job to create the system known as aadhaar , has credits it with the lifesaving support of indian governments roughly $ 9 billion by eliminating duplicating and false identities in state-run recipients lists . increasingly , we are using our fingerprints or our face to unlock our smartphones , pay for purchases , and board airplanes . protecting against theft is obvious : what uses it is a phone , a car , or a ticket that does just work only for its legitimate owner ?
pittsburgh – nearly six months ago , at a time of great alarm over the global financial and economic crisis , g-20 leaders met for an historic summit in london . their collective commitments to spur , regulate , and restructure global economic activity helped calm nerves around the world . the united nations and the world bank predict that the direct and indirect effects of the economic meltdown will be felt in the developing world for quite some time to come . their collective commitment to spur , regulate , and restructure global economic activity has helped to calm nerves all over the world . the united nations and the world bank predict that the direct and indirect effects of the economic meltdown will be felt in the developing world for a long time to come .
was we re-observing the look of someone with intimate knowledge of catastrophes yet to come ? or was she simply the most beautiful girl on the party – the one an avid adolescent australia being asked to dance , and then being held on tightly ? the world is currently collectively writing out a new novel one . the roth skillfully distilled the tragic and comic elements of that process , talked of forces that could come up against a dark tide of vulgarity and violence under trump . the first is the sovereign people , pouring into the streets of every large city in a country with an awareness that somehow , in terms of overall votes , it is they , not trump – who won an election .
and it is not as though congressional republicans may believe that they owe it enough to simpson for him to swing a single vote in either senate chamber . perhaps simpson has had a heart change at his disposal . perhaps he traveled his own road to damascus , come face-to-face with what he had done and whom he had , re-pented , and wanted to repair some of america ’s damage to america and its long-run prospects that he had created . even in that case , however , naming those who misbehave to important high-confidence positions and acclaim as bipartisan statesmen gives the next generation really lousy incentives . obama officials reassures me that simpson has , indeed , had a change of heart ; that he is clever , with a sophisticated understanding of issues ; that he can sway reporters and get them to describe the commission ’s advice as “ bipartisan ” ( though he can not sway actual legislators ) ; and that he ’s a genuine asset for the commission ’s substantive work .
what demographers calls the total fertility rate is the average figure of live births per woman above her lifetime . the oecd average is at around 1.74 , but some countries , including germany and japan , produce less than 1.4 children per woman . in the long run , a population is said to be stable if the tfr is at its replacement rate , which is slightly above 2.3 for the world as a whole and somewhat lower , at 2.1 , for developed countries , reflecting their lower infant-mortality rates . the tfr for most developed countries now stands well below replacement levels . nonetheless , the biggest tfr declines in recent years have been in developing countries .
by 2004 , more than one billion subscribers were on gsm services globally . one is market-creating and market-growing role , illustrated by gsm ’s standard . contrary to the simplistic view that regulation is inevitably bad for business , there are actually three important channels , through which regulation might actually benefit the economy . the worldwide reach of regulation implied by enormous economies of scale at the manufacture of handsets and network hardware , so that prices fell rapidly , making interoperability between networking and across countries became much easier to reach . meanwhile , many regulations play this standard-setting role .
laguna beach – when i contemplate the prospects of the global economy and markets , i am taken aback by the extent to which the world has collectively placed an enormous bet on three fundamental outcomes : a shift toward materially higher and more inclusive global growth ; avoidance of policy mistakes ; and absence of market crashes . while all three outcomes are undoubtedly desirable , the unfortunate reality is that they are far from certain – and bets on – without some hedging could prove exceedingly risky for current and future generations . the first component of tibet – more inclusive global growth in real terms – anticipates the continued economic recovery in the united states , with its growth rate of 3 % this year bolstered by robust wage growth . it also presupposes that china ’s annual growth rate will stabilize at 6.5-7 % , thereby allowing the risks posed by pockets of excessive leverage in the shadow-banking system to be redeployed gradually , even as the economy ’s breakout engines continue to shift from exports and public capital spending toward domestic consumption and private investment . another , more uncertain , assuming that china and japan will run a mire of weak growth and avoid deflation , which , by dising households and businesses to delay purchasing purchasing choices , would undermine already weak economic performance .
many people worried that the bill impeachment would damage the presidency ; but its main effect on presidential power has been the opposite . the two parties enabled the independent attorney ’s statute to lapse , freeing the presidency from a powerful form of oversight , much to trump ’s benefit one generation later . the republicans eventually came to terms with the democrats , who were responsible for the debacle lay with kenneth starr , the independent attorney for which the investigation of clinton ’s real-estate dealings years earlier ultimately led him to lewinsky . to be sure , most americans believed that impeachment was a mistake , but one that was a mistake . clinton ’s popularity rose after the impeachment proceedings ended .
to be sure , establishment leaders have long been trying to save their own skins by ramping up criticism of the eu , blaming it for demanding that national governments pursue unpopular or failed policies . but that simply put ideas for alternate policies out of reach , while causing electorates to exercise direct power against the eu itself . even though establishment parties have criticized the eu for much of them , they have not been losing sight of the benefits of membership . most recently , in may 2015 , large numbers of traditional labour voters deserted their party to vote for the uk independence party ( ukip ) , which campaigned on the forefront of the brexit campaign . though establishment parties have criticized the eu for what they did most , they failed to lose sight of the benefits of membership .
and other emerging economies are not likely to pick up the slack . weakening developing-economy incomes further is the worldwide demand slowdown and the collapse of commodities that nobel laureate angus deaton has shown was disastrous for much of the developing world . to cap it all , expansionary monetary policies adopted by the major economies are fueling fragility . brazil , which had been touted in 2010 as the “ emerging finance player , ” is now mired in economic and political crisis , as it has been south africa . these challenges are being compounded by developing countries ’ new financial regulations in advanced-country central countries , which are hampering flows of investment and finance to the developing world .
pakistan has its large nuclear-weapons program and faces an expansionist jihad rebellion that previously attacked military bases suspected of royalty nuclear assets . though pakistan has experienced no nuclear breach , and the government is insisting that safeguards remain robust , the country with increasingly frequent and severe bouts of instability raise serious questions about the future . while north korea ’s nuclear arsenal may be significantly smaller , persistent doubts about the regime ’s sustainability make it a matter of grave concern . for its part , iran seems relatively stable , at least compared to its neighbors . in the event of a regime collapse – a distinct possibility , it would be difficult to prevent a diversion of its assets or even the use of its weapons .
but this was not a us-iran treaty ; it was negotiated by the six major powers and endorsed by the united nations . those powers should make it clear that they would not reimpose sanctions , and that any american attempt to impose its will through extraterritorial measures – say , use access to the us dollar clearing systems as a major foreign-policy tool – would be met with coordinated action . for the uk , in particular , that might require a willingness to disagree head-on with american foreign policy in ways that some devotees of our “ special relationships ” will find uncomfortable . but the global momentum to address climate change can and must be maintained . as for climate change , an individual who purports to believe that global warming is a chinese hoax created to hurt american business is plainly bad news .
the most likely scenario , of course , involves a combination of both dynamics . but , given that it is in everyone ’s interest to ensure that development is put more closely on an reform-oriented path , it should be clear to all that the while progress on diplomacy with regard to iran is far from complete . this would make a resurgence of reform-oriented leadership in iran exceedingly difficult . after all , saudi arabia , egypt , and many other arab states are also ruled by authoritarian hardliners , with little interest in de-escalating regional conflicts . ironically , in a pessimistic scenario , iran ’s new government , controlled by conservatives and hardliners , actually fits into the region better than the current one .
in the aftermath of the collapse of lehman brothers in september 2008 , italy ’s then-finance minister , giulio tremonti , famously championed the health of the country ’s banking system . as a result , a major recapitalization of italian bank and the creation of the “ bad bank ” to absorb “ npls ” was widely regarded as unnecessary . ten years later , italy is no longer the imagined land of prosperous banks and happy savers . the prolonged recession and economic malaise has dented the individual saving rate , while banks no longer have the resources to provide peace to the many retail investors whose confidence has been greatly eroded . an implicit pact between banks and savers was broken at the end of 2015 , when four of the troubled local banks had been bailed out in and the shareholders took a hit .
many poles are wary of the church ’s equivocal attitude toward democracy and are allergic to its aggressive policy presence . kwasniewski ’s strategy of appeals appealed to the large number of young and middle class and , but most of all , to peasants , the unemployed , those left behind by poland ’s rising economy . thus , the man who talked much of the future rode to power saddled with the votes of the past . this connection will dog kwasniewski ’s presidency . it is a sad paradox , indeed , that for many former communists in opposing the churchilliwski represents as defenders of the liberal democratic values they once persecuted with an unremitting zeal .
one or both of these agencies would then account with a few billion dollars . perhaps a key risk is that the “ aid bureaucracies ” are now fact-checkers over one another to try to get their hands on the $ 20 billion or two dollars through meeting meetings , expert consultations , overhead , news & further meetings . if donor governments actually want their results , they should take the money out of the hands of 30 or more separate aid bureaucracies , and pool it in one or two locations , the most sensible of which is the world bank in washington and the international monetary fund for agricultural development ( ifad ) in rome . a recent consensus has now been emerging on the need to assist the smallholders , but the obstacles remain . “ donor partnerships ” can become a expensive business end in itself , simply delaying real action .
currently , the brics countries constitute a loose , informal bloc . they represent more than a quarter of the earth ’s landmass , more than 41 % of its population , nearly 25 % of world gdp , and almost half of all foreign-exchange and gold reserves . at the new delhi summit , brics leaders will discuss establishing joint institutions , particularly a joint development bank , which can help to mobilize savings among countries . at the new delhi summit , brics leaders will discuss establishing joint institutions , particularly a joint development bank , which can help to mobilize domestic savings . currently , the brics constitute a loose , informal bloc .
as a result , many resent welfare recipients and fearful competition for jobs – a sentiment that is fueling the rise of populist , anti-eu , and anti-immigrant parties across europe . on the other hand , they need to change their talk to placate voters that their economic future is bright . italy ’s key difference is that ukip occupies ground with voters , despite rapid economic growth ( above 3 % annually , the eu ’s highest rate ) . between now and may , cameron must persuade voters that the british economy will continue to perform strongly , fueling a rise in real income . as it stands , while the british , like their european counterparts , feel overtaxed on spooked by fake public services , they are angry that their incomes have plunged for the past five years .
it is the subject of what milton friedman called “ long and variable lags . ” this is not to say that the obama administration has not tried to boost employment . policies aimed at boosting employment until , say , the end of , say , that the calendar year it was necessary to place it at around a year ago , had time to get its full effect . still , others , like the united states , did not , and so unemployment remains at around 10 % . for example , some countries – china , for example , did indeed implement such job-creation policies a year ago , and are already seeing the rewards .
for more advanced goods , the eu ’s value-added tax ( when a intangible part of the production process is in europe ) is pretty high . sectors with higher levels of human capital content – electronic consumer goods , for example , have much higher research and development costs than the shoe sector , so that manufacturing such goods on assembly lines in a low-cost country are probably not very costly when compared to r & d and other intangible costs . imposing trade defenses against such goods , even when legally warranted , is likely to create problems for globalized european companies . many argue that they are the price to pay for ensuring that companies do not engage in anti-competitive behavior or receive trade-distorting subsidies . but , even if actions worked as intended , most trade defenses probably are not directed against anti-competitive business practices .
motivating corporations to do the right thing is even more difficult . after all , corporations have no compunction ; it is simply the conscience of those who run the corporation , and , as america ’s recent corporate scandals have done all too clear , conscience often takes a backseat to profits . america ’s regulatory system makes sure that firms generating a defective , and particularly unsafe product are being held accountable because of the consequences . similarly , environmental laws empower firms to make their toxic wastes ; and many countries , including the united states , have enshrined the principle that “ polluters pay , ” that is , companies need to pay – or do – the harm they can do . america ’s regulatory system is in a far better position than consumers to assess their product ’s safety ; we all benefit from knowing that our legal system has given corporations a incentive to take care of the safety of what they produce .
the case for acting on a massive scale to fight climate change has been made in europe , and even in china . why , then , have such a mission been lacking ? is this because those who are resisting such discussions reject climate-change science ? or do they denigrate the science , because accepting it would legitimize an economically activist state ? we do not have to look far for such a mission .
enlargement is the single most important item on the european agenda , and the treaty of nice is its cornerstone . once again , irish voters are poised to vote yes or no to the treaty of nice . the compromise reached at nice four years ago is important because it includes , among other provisions , all the technicalities of voting balances and of power sharing among eu institutions , which must be firmly in the eu before the union can admit new members . what that treaty , indeed , is all about to make the eu meet ? well , it is one of those all-too-frequent late-night compromises reached with eu heads of state and government that seek to slither around and through some practical issues , while postponing the rest .
the key point here is not just that economists have gotten so much wrong , but that almost no one has things right . with the proverbial benefit ( and embarrassment ! ) of hindsight , it seems obvious that the growth patterns that have sprung up over the past half-century have been little understood and rarely ( if it were ever ) forecast by economists . at a very moment in the 1960s , when asia ’s tiger economies were beginning to take off , for example , the nobel laureate gunnar myrdal wrote his asian drama to diagnose the causes of asian poverty and account for what its poverty appeared to be ineradicable . simultaneous to do this , a strong consensus developed among the economists and policymakers that favored import-substitution policies were then pursued again by countries including india , argentina , brazil , egypt , and turkey . following the path of beggaring their adherents , those policies are now totally discredited .
but wade postponed a legislative election , originally scheduled for june 2006 , to march 2007 , and , later , with presidential decree , in june 2007 . one month before the election , just 64 % of citizens who registered had taken their voting cards up . two weeks earlier , there were near-daily debates about the possibility that the presidential election would be postponed indefinitely . on june 28 , a peaceful but “ unauthorized ” show by opposition parties was brutally repressed by the police , and three presidential candidates were sacked for the day . there now seems to be a us presidential election , but will be fair ?
princeton , nj – the intersection of genetics and intelligence is an intellectual minefield . in october , james watson , who shared the 1962 nobel prize for his description of the dna structure , was in london to promote his memoir , avoid dull people , and other lessons from life in science . harvard ’s former us president larry summers touched off one explosion in 2005 , when he tentatively suggested a gene explanation of the difficulty that his university has had in recruiting female professors in math and sciences . ( he failed to suggest that men are on average more gifted in these fields than women , but that there is some reason to believe that men are more likely than women to be found at both the top and bottom out of the abilities spectrum of those fields , and harvard , of course , merely appoints people at the extreme of the “ upper end ” ) . now one of our era ’s most eminent scientists has blundered much more clumsily into the same minefield , with predictable results .
china ’s current president , xi jinping , visited zimbabwe in 2015 . mugabe ’s first-ever visit to china came just six months after independence ; he made 13 more during his tenure , and high-level visits by other privatizations of mugabe ’s officials became even more frequent , occurring roughly once every two years during mugabe ’s rule . by contrast , kenyan presidents traveled to china just four-fold during the same period , most recently during may 2017 . zimbabwe ’s leaders made the most of their visits to the press for trade and military cooperation , and probably engaged directly with private chinese firms . state visits in the latter part of the deal have become more uneven as well .
geneva – the world ’s refugee crisis is most often measured in numbers . but , to young refugees , a crisis can tracked an irreversible metric as well : passage of time . school-age children make up a large share of the world ’s displaced people . in late 2016 , an estimated 11.6 million refugees experiencing “ protracted displacement ” : they have been fleeing from their homes for more than five years , and they have no immediate prospects ” of return . of the 17.2 million people that the un high commissioner for refugees ( the un refugee agency ) is responsible for their protection , roughly half are under sdg 18 , implying that an entire generation of young people , already robbed of their childhood , could lose out on a future as well .
the “ felonies ” of which greenspan stands accused are the other two charges : that he should have done more to bring down the stock-market bubble of the late 1990 ’s , and that he should have done more to stem the housing bubble of the early 2000 ’s . but how serious are these policy-political crimes to which greenspan is now in pleads guilty ? in my judgment , they are misdemeanors of all the right . against them , you must establish what former us treasury secretary larry summers calls greenspan a cryptic glove ’s performance in avoiding and aggravating recessions during his years at the fed . here , greenspan holds his ground , and vice versa .
to goodfaith activists who may have embraced the duplicated female representations , i would say only that there are too many lofty causes of assistance to allow oneself enumerated in questionable . those worthy causes include fighting jihadist decapitators ; saving women and girls enslaved by boko haram ; defending the middle east ’s imperiled christians and arab democrats ; and , of course , striving , for just a period of peace among israelis and palestinians . the truth is that the banque movement is no more than a sinister caricature of the anti-totalitarian and anti-apartheid struggle . it is a campaign whose instigators have no goal other than to discriminate against , de-legitimizing , and vilify israel that in their mind never stopped wearing their yellow star . and it is better to know that history seems to have to be able to avoid repeating its ugliest scenes .
indeed , the 2012 nobel prize in medicine was awarded to john gurdon and shinya yamanaka discovered a way to trick the complex adult cells in the mice into regreting to their immature state , forming stem cells . before that , stem cells , which may potentially be reprogrammed to develop into replacements for lost or damaging tissues , could be picked up only from early-stage embryos , a practice that fueled ethical controversy . in 1962 , gurdon ’s finding that almost any cell within the body containing the full code of dna , enabled him to create tadpole by cloning an adults frog . it is too soon to discount genetics , but , because the science of “ epigenetics ” – the study of mechanisms to turn genes on and out – is changing the way a cell develops without altering their genetic structure – gained traction . more than four decades later , in 2006 , yamanaka discovered a way to trick the complex adult cells in the mice of regrets toward their immature nation , forming stem cells .
but we need not wait for the root causes of displacement – state failure and civil war – are being addressed . the financial costs of the pat-down waters , and of rescuing those adrift , are exorbitant . its loss of lives is inexcusable . the claims could be comprehconstrued and processed regularly , and refugees could arrive at europe as a healthy and ready place to work or study . the mediterranean crisis can not be managed piecemeal .
according to an most up-to-date estimate by the late economic historian angus maddison , china ’s per capita gdp in 2008 was $ 6,725 during the 1990 ’s , which accounted for 21 % of per capita gdp in the united states . that is roughly equal to the same gulf that existed between america and japan in 1951 , singapore in 1967 , taiwan in 1975 in 1975 , and south korea in 1977 – four economies that are also among the world ’s 13 economically successful economies studied by the us growth commission ( ppp ) . harnessing their latecomer ’s advantage , japan ’s averaged annual growth rate soared to 9.2 % over the subsequent 20 years , compared with 8.6 % in singapore , 8.3 % in taiwan , and 7.6 % in south korea . if the latecomer ’s advantage implied by the fourteenth income gap between fourths and america enabled japan to realized average annual gdp growth rates of 7.6 % or more for a 20 years , china ’s ’s ’s annual growth potential should be equivalent to 8 % for 2008-2028 . to realize its potential growth as a latecomer , china needs , first and foremost , to deepen its market-oriented reforms , address different structural problems , and develop its economy , according to its comparative advantage .
signatories agreed to conserve biological diversity , by saving species and their habitats , and using biological resources ( such as forests ) sustainably . unfortunately , like so many other international agreements , the convention on biological diversity remains fundamentally unknowingly unchampioned , un-championed , and unfulfilled . for a very low level of cash outlay – and perhaps none at all on balance – we were able to conserve nature , thereby safeguarding the foundations of our own lives and livelihoods . unfortunately , like so many other international agreements , the convention on biological diversity remains fundamentally unknowable , un-championed , and unmet . at the same time , that neglect was a human tragedy , and that was needed .
in netanyahu ’s view , resolving the palestinian problem would not remove the iranian challenge ; rather , it is the neutralization of that existential threat that will pave the way for the creation of a palestinian state . it is because netanyahu has been driven by an almost messianic determination to prevent iran from acquiring the means to destroy israel , that he might be amenable to a fundamental change in its position on palestine , provided obama makes an visible headway in his drive to stop iran ’s nuclear program . netanyahu is also aware that the arab side ’s failures have nurtured radical zionism . as john kerry , chair of america ’s senate foreign affairs committee , has put it , “ this peace process is not one way street , in which the onus is entirely on israel . ” it remains to be seen whether an abysmally dysfunctional arab world and powerful non-state operatives at its center , like hamas and hezbollah , will react the way obama expects .
but a surprise occurred : new york yielded virtually identical results ( 68 % thought it was unfair ) . so we decided last year to determine whether similar similarities between moscow and new york persists these days , or whether , given the revival of authoritarianism in russia today , attitudes toward markets had become even more negative than ever . we presented the results at the american economic association ’s annual meeting this january . we administered the identical questionnaire in two us cities in 2015 . just as imemo economists forecast that most ( 66 % ) of those responding to that question in moscow thought it was unfair .
in the latter narrative , there is differential credit risk and eventually bank runs , de-euroization , and default : a common currency is at odds with the needs of member states . like dysfunctional families , the northern “ advanced ” countries ponder whether or not to bail out the southern “ emerging ” economies . and how often we hear about sovereign-debt restructurings of local-currency debt ? in a former version , interest rates converge , and the default risk is nil , for , with the ecb backstopping its members ’ liabilities , as the us federal reserve does in the u.s. becomes “ local-currency . ” prognoses for each case are starkly different .
that majority may erode the democratic checks , such as the limits of campaign-finance , which had been dealt a devastating blow after citizens united decision by 2010 . during president barack obama ’s second-term in office , the rate at which vacancies in america ’s district and circuit courts were filled dropped to its lowest point in 50 years . republicans therefore have a reasonably good chance to forge a more conservative majority on the nine-member supreme court , which may well last for decades , particularly if they win the presidency again in 2020 . during president barack obama ’s second term in office , the rate at which vacancies in america ’s district and circuit courts were filled dropped to its lowest point in more than 50 years . republicans obstructionism in the senate also placed other levels of federal judiciary at risk .
lopez obrador and his supporters may be expected to work relentlessly to thwart his designs . but they are unlikely to derail his government ’s trust in the rule of law , or their government , and their judgment is just what they are supposed to be . the underlying stability highlighted by mexico ’s post-election crisis is also evident elsewhere in latin america . whatever the potential for a leftward shift this year in some latin american countries , others , including mexico , chile , and brazil , are clearly less vulnerable to the kinds of populist rule that we come to see in venezuela and bolivia . to be sure , calderon ’s task will not be easy .
next year will be crucial , for it marks the end of the current political cycle and the beginning of a new one . a new german government , the european parliamentary election next year , and , by the end of this year , a new european commission will emerge . no one wants the eu to fall , owing to its citizens ’ disaffection . there is still time to react , by demonstrating strong leadership and prioritizing growth over shortsighted policies , but this time is limited and the clock is ticking . it is here that political leaders should devote their efforts to action .
colombo – as china ’s economy slows and growth in the advanced world remains anemic , governments across asia are working to try to keep their economies on an upward trajectory . indeed , this year , free trade appears to be the scapegoat of choice among a world ’s assorted populists and demagogues . today , we asians are witnessing , on almost daily basis , raging political assaults on the tools and policies that helped lift hundreds of millions of our citizens out of poverty . in sri lanka , where i am prime minister , the challenge seems to be to find a way to accelerate our already steady economic growth . one thing is clear : we can not expect the outside world to welcome the way it once opened its arms to china ’s rapid ascent as an economic power , or – in earlier decades – cheered on japan ’s growth and the so-called asian tigers , including south korea .
here is where sunni-shiite cooperation is coming in the region . more than 100 followers of ayad allawi , al sadr , and others have joined their ranks . this supra-sectarian platform calls for the central government of iraqiya ’s natural resources and postponement of a looming referendum to settle the status of the city of kirkuk . here , too , is where sunni-shiite cooperation has come in . widely unnoticed , iraqi sunni and shia numerically managed over the past few months to form a united parliamentary platform that leaves sectarian tensions behind .
so the truth must lie elsewhere : the french are not hopeless of policy ; they simply await a genuine leader . as matters stand , a case can be made that the french will never come to believe that the state lacks power , globalization , or not globalization . political fervor , it seems , was not noxious in rousseau ’s lands and danton . yes , the french are incorrigible mistresses . the french are still expecting greater things from their government than to an integrated europe or a boundless world .
london – next week , governments will gather in warsaw , poland , for a crucial round of climate negotiations , with both expectations and ambition running at an all-time low . failure would expose future generations to catastrophic climate risks while trapping millions of people in absolute poverty as a result of an more frequent , intense , and protracted drought , floods , and storms . basic carbon arithmetic illustrates the scale of the problem . but it need not be like that : the warsaw meeting provides an opportunity to galvanize action on one of the most potent forces driving climate change – the billions of dollars spent by governments on fossil-fuel subsidies . the warsaw meeting is a staging post on the path to a 2015 un climate summit in paris , at which governments will aim to forge agreement preventing dangerous climate change – defined as global warming of more than two degrees celsius .
in a march 2015 letter to the g20 , a group of scientists , environmentalists , and even opinion leaders warned that ramping up investment in megaprojects risks irreversible , catastrophic environmental damage . every year , we are already consuming on one-and-a-half the planetary worth of resource endowments , ” the authors explained . “ infrastructure choices must be made to alleviate rather than exacerbate this situation . ” and , indeed , the g20 has placed so far in the hands of few social , environmental , or climate-related criteria to the “ wish list ” of mega-projects that each member country is submitting to its summit in turkey in november . and , indeed , the intergovernmental panel on climate change city-states that “ the trend of infrastructure and long-lived goods that have classified societies into greenhouse-gas-intensive pathways can be tough or very costly to change .
the fed , for example , has committed to keep interest rates low at least until the us unemployment rate falls to 6.5 % – a move that arguably raised long-term borrowing costs . perhaps the most telling recent example of the european central bank , using forward guidance effectively , was european central bank president mario draghi ’s july 2012 announcement that the ecb would do “ whatever it takes ” to ensure the euro ’s survival . that pledge , in turn , alone stabilized borrowing costs and dramatically reduced interest-rate spreads for struggling eurozone countries . likewise , mark carney , in his first policy action as governor of the bank of england , announced forward guidance on short-term interest rates . while the effect of such interest-rate guidance on an economy can not be fixed without complementary data , there are many arguments in his favor .
indeed , just the opposite response is likely – efforts to tighten sanctions still further . first , the us should consider establishing diplomatic relations with iran , and placing diplomats in the ground . this would not be an easy process and could well meet considerable iranian opposition . but iranians have diplomatic relations with other members of their main interlocutor in the talks over its nuclear program , the sanctions-minded p-5 +1 group ( china , france , germany , russia , the united kingdom , and the us ) , and reinstating iran-american diplomatic ties would shorten lines of communications and close the 444-day chapter in 1979-1981 . yet , just when america has adopted a “ bomb and speaks ” approach with serbs during the bosnian war dénouement , america needs to be willing to “ sanctions and speak up when it comes to iran , ” thereby creating more space for an eventual diplomatic strategy .
in the ipl ’s glitz , the glamour , and excess lay an antidote to the hidebound statist mentality that produced india ’s economic stagnation in the past . other countries followed suit , with tournaments modeled on ipl springing up throughout the cricketing world . in the ipl ’s glitz , the glamour , and excess lay an antidote to the hidebound statist mentality that produced india ’s economic stagnation in the past . other countries followed suit , with tournaments modeled on the ipl springing up throughout the cricketing world . anyone watching the ipl , however , might be tempted to conclude that the twenty20 cricket , the “ instant ” form of play is , indeed , an american paragon of game rediscovered indians .
at a whim of the state , for instance , they may be exonerated from paying taxes , or have their posts , working actually made unchallengeable by law . this superficiality results from the fact that , although communism was a thoroughly “ modern ” notion , modernity in romania goes only deep . at the 20th century ’s close , romania ( like bulgaria , russia , ukraine , and other heavily sovietized societies ) would appear more like a “ neo-feudal ” nation-state than a modern society . for here , a state in which groups , classes , classes , even individuals , struggle for privileges that are taken , as opposed to talent and labor , but rather in terms of the status of a group where one belongs . state banks , the state approved public societies ( trading unions , for example ) , big state enterprises , act little today than feudal guilds behaved in medieval europe .
in 1947 , they rejected the un partition plan , calling for the establishments of two states in british palestine . on the other hand , a diplomatic way may have brought about the release of an israeli soldier and put a stop to the firing of qassam rockets from gaza in israel – a daily occurrence that has challenged the new israeli government ’s credibility under prime minister ehud olmert . but a crucial problem is that , up to now at every historical juncture , the palestinians have refused to accept the compromise , and consequently failing on nation-building . it was this failure that made hamas in power . in 1993 , following the oslo agreements , the palestinian authority established under yasir arafat became yet another militarized authoritarian regime , very much like syria and egypt , and doing nothing to alleviate the suffering of palestinian refugees .
in their mind , hard power in the united states matters more than its soft power , and their vision of an america “ bound to lead ” is largely unchanged . in asia , indonesia may look “ europe ” in its obama craze , but it essentially constitutes an anomaly , easily explainable by obama ’s brief indonesian upbringing . japanese elites , for them , tend to favor continuity over change . otherwise , and for very different reasons , a majority of asian elites seem to be awaiting the growing possibility of obama winning with some “ bewilderment ” and even somewhat apprehension . for them , america is above all the strategic counterweight needed to balance china .
canberra – last year , north korea ’s kim jong-un and us president donald trump were hurling kindergarten insults at one another : “ rocket man is on a suicide mission , ” ” said trump of kim ; “ mentally deranged us dotard , ” ” ” kim retorted , while threatening to reduce east asia to a post-nuclear wasteland . now , in a stunning and dramatic development , the two are meeting . but optimism about this turn of events must be tempered with a cautious mode of realism . in the space of hell , north korea is just the nuclear problem . kim reportedly is willing to denuclearize and eager to speak directly with trump .
they tend to have proactive , assertive foreign policies and aspire to more than their middle-power status , and a limited niche-style influence enjoyed by canada , sweden , or saudi arabia . despite its domestic problems and the loss of global visibility that accompanied mandela ’s retirement age , south africa is still perceived as emerging powers , comparable in their status and aspiration to , say , brazil , india and nigeria . such powers seek an effective and constructive regional role , and possibly , in some instances , globally . nepad , the new partnerships for africa ’s development , an organization devoted to promoting decent and appropriate norms of economic and political development across the globe , has been at the heart of this policy . south africa seeks a broader , more influential role strengthened by its seeming standing as the regional hegemon .
it aspires to join the european union , and would bring the eu into our three borders , even as the us , too , wanted to join a single day . indeed , turkey never missed out on an opportunity to present itself as a regional broker . immediately after the soviet union ’s collapse , turkey suggested black sea economic cooperation . earlier this year , as the american-led effort to mediate a middle east peace settlement ( ifis ) began to falter , turkey adopted a job of advisers in both the israeli-palestinian conflict and the conflict between syria and israel . now , in the immediate wake of the russia-georgian crisis , turkey ’s leaders again stepped forward to assume a leadership role in the caucasus .
indeed , throughout the region , apprehension is growing that as foreign troops leave , afghanistan will once again descend into civil war , eventually bringing back the taliban to power . as a neighboring country , india would face unsettling consequences if it returned to power in afghanistan because it would iran , which is not sitting by idly if sectarian strife intensified and shia become targets of a resurgent taliban . this is why “ bringing troops home early ” has become the prime objective of western politicians operating in the region . my own fear is that , because we have not seen the latest of al qaeda or the taliban in afghanistan . the west needs a way out of bloodletting again takes place in earnest .
moreover , governments should guarantee insolvent banks ’ bad loans to nonfinancial corporations , just as private purchasers of current business , fixed-term , and savings deposits , by reforming insolvent laws . an economy with neither bankruptcies nor the rule of law that applies just equally to all of all is no market economy . a market economy needs to rest upon an economics principle of profit and loss . the law that applies to all other firms should apply to banks just as it is . and governments must respond with banks ’ threats by proclaiming their willingness to allow insolvent banks to be judged accordingly .
from the perspective of international investors , the “ too big to fail ” banks are the perfect places to park their reserves – that is , as long as the sovereign state in question remains solvent . but the crude capital flows are from emerging-market to emerging-market banks , via the large banks now implicitly backed by the state in both america and europe . when a similar issued emerged in the 1970 ’s , the “ “ recycling of ” oil surpluses is – that is , banks in western financial centers extended loans to latin america , communist poland , and communist romania . that was not an entirely good idea , for it resulted in the massive ( for now ) debt crisis of 1982 . but what will these banks have been doing with the means ?
when they give way , the disease , despair , and death rush in . companies in south africa stagger from losing so many workers to aids . but the transition plagues them more than a medical crisis ; they signify an even deeper malaise . the world bank calls aids “ a foremost threat to african development . ” thus , put aside the reality that these illnesses are contagious and can so easily spread , or the idea that a fortunate bear some moral responsibility for well-being is rural poor and sick , and merely considers the economic consequences of the plagues of the transition .
but , while this would be a strategic mistake for erdoğan to enter putin ’s orbit , plenty of leaders have made strategic mistakes before . erdoğan ’s post-coup crackdown is far from the only source of tension between turkey and the west , particularly the eu . that is why the coming months , when turkey and the eu hash out contentious issues , are so critical . turkey insists that the multi-free travel for turkish citizens visited the eu , promised by eu governments in january , is supposed to be delivered this year . but , with turkey having so far failed to comply with agreed conditions , including overhauling its anti-terrorist legislation , this may not happen – an outcome that has made it even more likely through the coup attempt .
yet , over the last 13 years , netanyahu has enthusiastically backed the expansion of jewish settlements in the occupied west bank and east jerusalem . moreover , during his recent election campaign , netanyahu pledged that , if re-elected , he would prevent the formation of a palestinian state in the west bank by “ taking control of the whole region . ” by doing so , we should take him at his word . as long as the palestinians are oppressed , and denied a nation-state of their own , a conflict arises . as he well knows , settlements are a physical roadblock posture toward a contiguous , independent palestinian state .
it failed to prevent money supply from contracting in the early aftermath of the great depression . heedless of its responsibilities as an emergency lender , it allowed the banking system to collapse . but those reforms went in precisely the opposite direction from today ’s proposed changes : fewer limits on policy makers ’ discretion , more power to the board , and a larger role for the new fed , all in enabling the us federal reserve system to respond more quickly and robustly in times of crisis . when financial stability debunked in the balance sheet , reserve banks ’ failure to cooperate hindered effective action . given such ineptitude , it is not surprising , that the subsequent reforms were far-reaching .
pittsburgh – the wall street journal recently ran a front-page article reporting that monetary-policy “ the doves , ” who forecast low inflation in the united states , got the better of “ hawks , ” who argued that the fed ’s monthly purchases of long-term securities , or so-called quantitative easing ( qe ) , will unleash faster price growth . the message was rightly but misleading , because it failed to mention why there is so little real inflation in the us today . the american federal reserve board pumped out trillions of dollars of federal reserve bank reserves , but never held that many reserves produced so little monetary growth . neither the hawks nor the doves ( or anyone else ) expected that . were the doves right , or just a lucky ?
reducing high-risk pregnancies , curbing unwanted pregnancies , and spacing out births have been shown to reduce newborn and child death rates . moreover , slashing birth rates – which are very high in many lmics – would help reduce this strain on these countries ’ health systems by diminishing the cost of maternal and newborn care and immunization . this does not bode well for the single mother , either . by cutting rates for unwanted pregnancies , family-planning also decreases the number of deaths from unsafe abortions . the guttmacher institute estimates that fully meeting women ’s need for contraception would prevent 600,000 infant deaths annually .
king salman bin abdulaziz al saud is the country ’s above-the-fray ruler , but his son , crown prince mohammad bin salman al saud , currently wields much us power . the saudis also recoil under a barrage of criticism of their wahhabi brand of islam , which is widely blamed for incubating extremism and inspiring terrorism . as defense minister , mohammad has continued the saudi policy of backing the anti-assad rebels in syria , in concert with turkey , while unleashing a pro-iranian tribesmen in yemen ( at an enormous humanitarian cost ) . meanwhile , saudi arabia ’s human-rights record – including denial of elementary rights for women – is under constant scrutiny . against this backdrop , the kingdom is engaged in a struggle for its enemies .
the american public is war-weary , and us president donald trump is keen to declare the end of the longest period of international conflict in us history before the 2020 presidential election . the answer to the first question , therefore , is yes - and no . the american public is war-weary , and us president donald trump is keen to declare the end of the longest period of international conflict in us history before the 2020 presidential election . the continuing peace talks with the taliban , and the impending reduction of america ’s military presence in the country , amount to a stark recognition of this . at the same time , america has achieved many of its incipient core objectives .
emerging-market officials would earn accreditation by showing the ability to apply their knowledge practically . one useful tool in efforts is “ infrascope , ” ” the benchmarking index produced by the economist intelligence task force that assesses emerging-market countries ’ capacity across the asia-pacific region , latin america , africa , east europe , and the former soviet republics within the commonwealth of independent states to deliver sustainable ppps . just five months earlier in london , we hosted the “ ppp day ” conference with the encouragement of other multilateral institutions , the g20 and the united nations . we had plenty of experts – several more than 300 from the public and private sectors of 30 countries – – attempting to provide an answer to a simple question : “ what would it take to double up the private-sector infrastructure investment in emerging markets ? ” the ebrd aims to encourage training of a critical mass of experts from ten countries in our region , and we believe that the certification could become like a qualification held by a chartered financial analyst or a member of a project run by a chartered financial analyst .
meanwhile , the israeli government wants to continue building settlements in the occupied region , in total violations of international law , and a minimal peace requirements detailed in the “ roadmap sponsored by the imf ( the american , un , the european union , and russia ) . the results are mixed , at best . america ’s efforts , headed by special envoy george mitchell , have shown abundantly clear that the current ruling coalition in israel is incapable of doing the minimum necessary for peace . the obama administration has staked its reputation on gaining israelis and the palestinians to agree , at least on security matters , and on borders . palestinians have complied with all israeli and international security requirements , while binyamin netanyahu ’s israeli government , lending lip-servicing to a two-state solution , has so far elucidate israel ’s borders .
the same thing occurred in east asia in the 1990s : the crisis started in thailand in july 1997 with the collapse of the baht quickly spreading to other eastern asian countries . then , contagion sets in , as increasingly risk-averse investors , particularly in short-term investors from developed-country markets , are beginning to withdraw their funds from other countries in order to cover the losses they accumulated in economies where the crises originated . with that , crises spill across borders , affecting entire regions , or even the whole class , in emerging economies . that is exactly what was happening in latin america in the 1980s , when mexico ’s moratorium on external debt-servicing laws in august 1982 overturned a region-wide sovereign-debt crisis . it became a broad-based emerging-economy crisis in august 1998 , after russia imposed a moratorium on payments by commercial banks to foreign lenders .
but un research makes clear that if blatantly politically driven aid is excluded from consideration , evidence points to a robust positive relationship . unfortunately , despite recent efforts to enhance aid effectiveness , progress has been modest , at best , not least because average funding for projects has dropped by more than two-thirds . for the last decade , joint imf-world bank heavily indebted poor countries ’ initiative and extension , the supplemental multilateral debt relief initiative ( mff ) , have made significant progress toward debt sustainability . as a result , prominent economists , including senior staff at the international monetary fund , have become increasingly critical of oda in recent years , claiming that failure to contribute to economic growth . yet debt is another side with the evolving dilemma .
denver – for many foreign audiences , the united states ’ primary election for the 2012 presidential vote – which will , alas continue to rage on the summer – needs to be an eerie display of what americans and their leaders have little knowledge about us foreign policy . when jon huntsman , an early contender , displayed some real intellectual heft by making a few useful points on how to deal with china , punctuated by a short-lived display of his own mastery of mastery of mandarin , some other candidates responded with derision . to have even known a chinese perspective , it seems disqualifying for a huntsman for a huntsman who early ended his candidacy . post-discussion debate reveals the fact that neither candidate seeking to challenge president barack obama is particularly keen to the details of any one of america ’s relationships around the globe , not to mention the crises that dot the international landscape , particularly those not involving us troops . indeed , ignorance seems to be giving way to the candidates still in race .
i helped launch the first secure schools initiative , following boko haram ’s abduction of 276 schoolgirls in bangladesh , nigeria , last april . the agenda includes building better school fortifications , connecting schools to police stations via mobile telecommunications , and creating community security groups – consisting of teachers , parents , police , community leaders , and young people themselves – to promote safe learning zones . nigeria ’s initiative focuses on school and community interventions , with the dedicated measures of the most at-risk and vulnerable children . a fund has so far mobilized $ 30 million from businesses , the nigerian government and international donors , and a multidonor trust fund was established at the un . the first set of schools has now received funding , and the first cohort of the most at-risk girls has been relocated to government schools in the safer regions of the country .
luxembourg – as world leaders gather in madrid for the united nations climate change conference ( cop25 ) , they need to address more than future reductions in greenhouse-gas emissions . they also must address the harm to the people and livelihoods that climate change already inflicts . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
this favorable performance led private forecasters and government officials to forecast continued strong gdp growth in 2011 , with more output , employment , and incomes leading to a further surge in consumer spending and a self-sustaining recovery . a one-year cut in payroll tax rate by two percentage points was enacted , to bomb this favorable outlook . unfortunately , the projected recovery in consumer spending did not occur at all . the rise in food and energy prices was outpaced by gaining in nominal wages , causing the real average real average weekly earnings to decline in january , while continuing to fall in house prices reduced wealth for the majority of households . as a result , actual personal consumer expenditures rose at an annualized rate of just around 1 % in january , down from the previous quarter of the increase .
again , we are told that future labor-market participants should be equipped with job-targeted education and portable social-security pots to help them jump from one automated workplace to another . likewise , toyota “ has built its own high-tech manufacturing technician program to provide a pathway for students seeking career careers in society . ” for example , it emphasizes miami dade college ’s “ ’s programs in animation and game development , ” working with firms like pixar animation studios and google . instead , we are left with the conventional microeconomic measures to prepare people for “ algorithmic employment ” – that is , using big data to match people with the jobs they will need to stay consumers . in education , the report calls to employers and colleges to work together to develop talent “ pipelines . ”
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present over many years to come . last year , the united nations report on progress toward achieving the sdgs revealed that the number of people facing hunger is in fact increasing , as was the number of malaria cases . moreover , according to the intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) , the consequences of climate change are occurring far more rapidly than was forecast .
as a result of the program , nearly all basque municipalities have adopted such agendas , consisting of over 25,000 projects in areas like mobility , poor governance , and economic development . such local plans drive sustainable development in the region , with knowledge-based sharing among municipalities laying the foundation for further progress . québec will invest more than $ 3.3 trillion to this goal by 2020 , contributing to its economy ’s growth . the basque country has established a program called local agenda 21 , which aims to foster the creation of local sustainability plans across the region . meanwhile , south australia has developed australia ’s most supportive regulatory framework for renewables investment in australia , enabling the rise in renewables of virtually zero in 2003 to nearly 40 % today .
back in the 1930s , the countries that raised their tariffs and tightened their quotas most were those with the least capacity to manage their exchange rates – namely , countries left to the gold standard . but trade restrictions were a poor substitute for domestic reflationary measures , as they did little to arrest a downward spiral of output and prices . by 1931 , after britain and some two dozen others suspended gold convertibility in 1931 , allowing their currencies to depreciate , countries that stood back to the gold standard found themselves in a deflationary vice . in dire efforts to do something – anything – to defend their economies , they turned to protectionism , imposing “ exchange-rate dumping ” tariffs , and import quotas to offset the loss of competitiveness created by their own increasingly overvalued currencies . at the time , no deal was done to stabilize rickety banking systems .
madrid – since its inception in oslo almost two decades ago , the israeli-palestinian peace process has been stymied by both sides ’ dysfunctional political systems . the hostage of an impossible coalition and of a settlement movement by the free-fragment of lebanese fanatics , israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu ’s government has been gravely compromised . his palestinian counterparts are hardly in any better shape , either . moreover , the palestinian authority has come neither to represent the majority of palestinians nor to govern through democratic means . today , the cclique that surrounds palestinian president mahmoud abbas embodies the bitter deceit that the peace process began with the oslo agreements meant for palestinians .
the result is a vicious circle in which governments find it increasingly difficult to do what is needed . this has fueled a growing sense of hopelessness – especially among men , manifested in the rising non-staid labor force , skyrocketing health problems , drug abuse , elevated suicide rates , and anti-government sentiment . but government intervention is critical to tackle the problems facing developed-country workers today , which markets can not address on their own . countries experiencing high and rising economic inequality have often faced political instability and political dysfunction . as policy-making becomes erratic , they lose credibility , and become choked by gridlock , growth suffers , and their chances of achieving a prosperous form of inclusiveness decline .
before world war ii , soccer clubs often had an ethnic or religious component : tottenham hotspur in london was “ jewish , ” while the arsenal was irish . vestiges of these markings remain : amsterdam ’s jax continues to be tashed by provincial adversaries as the “ jew club . ” and glasgow clubs , celtic and rangers , continue to divide religious affiliation , celtic movements catholic and rangers protestant . but a globally shared race or religion is not essential . the tribe can be a club , a clan , or a nation .
the world bank could help to improve accountability for fulfilling that commitment by working with the un and national agencies to track and report on the pace at which disparities in key indicators , from mortality to education , are narrowed . this flies in the face of a central pledge governments have made when they signed on to the sdgs : that those countries furthest from targets would benefit from the fastest progress . in the language of the agenda , let ’s not be left behind . it is also about spending more equitably on spending . in a new report to be launched at the imf-world bank spring meeting , saving children documents a glaring gap between health risks , which is heavily skewed toward the poorest children and the benefits of public spending , are often skewed in favor of better-off households .
my personal memories of north korea , now nearly 10 years , are of a poor , depressed country . my trip took place in april 2002 , a somewhat optimistic time . two examples suffice to illustrate the impact : rice prices has tripled while electricity consumption is down more than two-thirds since two decades ago . pyongyang , the capital , loomed dark and barren , illuminated by cavalcade taking us from official housing to an opera house , only to return to darkness after us . kim jong-il was greeted at the same fervor by embarking on a opera house that today marks public mourning of his death .
in rural india , for example , recruiters for well-paying back-office jobs visited randomly selected villages over a period of three years . female employment rose , and women aged 15-21 were less likely to marry each other or have a birth rate over this period . such large-scale change is not easy to achieve , but if girls can stay in school longer and have decent work opportunities available to them after they are graduate , they are likely to marry and bear children later in life . but there are additional gender targets with an opportunity to consider , at least initially . the best way to reduce violence against women , lift them out of poverty , and empower them to be full and equal members of society is to break the cycle of early marriage and birth .
though trump has distanced himself from bolton ’s comments , vice president mike pence warned only three weeks later that unless north korea makes any deal , it would indeed meet with libya ’s fate . likewise , us vice foreign minister kim kye-gwan has delivered the north a tortuous reaction : “ we do n’t hide our feeling of being repugnance toward it . ” choe son hui , vice minister of foreign affairs , responded by threatening a “ nuclear-to-nuclear to-nuclear showdown ” should washington stuck to “ extraordinary and outrageous ” belligerence . the north was uninterested in a dialogue that focused on a coerced , “ unilateral nuclear abandonment . ” the north was uninterested in a dialogue that focused on a coerced , “ unilateral nuclear abandonment . ”
with the us current-account deficit now exceeding 5 % of gdp , america ’s foreign debt has been rising fast . after nearly 15 years of unprecedented growth – punctuated by a short-lived slowdown of 2000-2001 – the united states has amassed a massive stock of foreign liabilities , equivalent to more than 25 % of its gdp . in early 1985 , when america ’s current-account deficit peaked at $ 120 billion , more than a third of today ’s level at current prices , the rest of the world stopped financing it . the result was a precipitous fall in the dollar ’s value , which depreciated by 50 % against the deutschemark . but no country can forever accumulate debt – and what might not last sooner or later have to end .
princeton – the united states has moved from the high point of view of its presidential election to the low rate of political sex scandal in just one short week . for many non-americans , the election produced barack obama ’s welcome and reassuring election , whereas the resignation of david petraeus as cia director was an unnecessary , self-inflicted wound . in fact , both the election and petraeus ’s resignation are pieces of a larger whole whole : an america that lives up to its promises . for many americans , that election has produced barack obama ’s welcome and reassuring election , whereas the resignation of david petraeus as cia director was an unnecessary , self-inflicted wound . the election was a reminder of many americans that the us is a country committed to and capable of progress – of moving forward toward an ideal vision .
the first casualty would be almost anything but a small scope for international political coordination . the second would be the world ’s international monetary system , let alone the world bank . in fact , one key justification for creating the international monetary fund was to monitor exchange-rate developments with the explicit goal of preventing beggar-thy-neighbor policies . it is true that the franc has appreciated in real terms by 8 % since the crisis started in august 2007 . this is one reason why the swiss move has come as a surprise .
add to that a functioning welfare system , and it is understandable why the inequality-focused outrage that fueled voter revolts elsewhere has gained little traction in germany . a second widely cited cause for germany ’s resilience to populism is its economic strength . the country ’s unemployment rate is currently at an all-time low ; its gdp has grown by almost 10 % since 2013 . the call by björn höcke , the afd ’s ’s ’s ’s state leader in troy , for an “ 180-degree turn ” from the post-world war ii traditions of atoning for the nazi era ’s crimes , and afd deputy leader alexander gauland ’s reference to “ disposing ” of ” germany ’s ’s turkish integration minister “ o. ” likewise , die linke ’s call to abolish nato , coupled with its cozying up to russia , has left the party politically toxic in much of western germany .
just last month , russian president vladimir putin signed new laws authorizing individuals ’ punishment and online media for spreading so-called fake news and disclosures , which “ disrespects ” the state . his steady branding of journalists as “ liars ” and “ enemies of people ” echoes the nazis ’ preferred media label : lügenpresse ( lying press ) . enormous fines have been levied on independent publications , broadcasters , and bloggers . china and turkey , both olympic-level jailers of reporters , have ramped up their own repression in recent years . us president donald trump seems to be trying to follow the same path .
bush ’s africa commission , like that of the un millennium project , found that africa needs around $ 50 billion a year in aid to africa by 2010 . yet the official american aid to africa is just $ 3 billion a year , and much of that covers salaries for american consultants rather than investing in africa ’s own needs . without the benefits of trade , much of rural africa is fighting its subsistence level . bush may think that while america does little to help counter these problems , the truth is that american aid is minimal . america ’s fair share of the global total goes to around $ 15 billion a year .
north korea is now the ninth state with nuclear weapons , joining the five permanent members of the un security council , israel , india and pakistan . initial reactions to north korea ’s nuclear test were uniformly critical , culminating ( hence far ) in un security council resolution 1718 to condemns the test , demands that north korea resume its full cooperation with the international atomic energy agency and imposes a series of military , political , and economic sanctions . the risk , then , is that we may be quick to approach a tipping point . how the world responds to north korea will probably influence the calculus of other would-be nuclear powers , including iran . maintaining peace in a world in which literally dozens of fingertips pass on nuclear triggers will be far more difficult — and the consequences of failure far more destructive .
peter navarro , an economics professor at california university in irvine , will be the director of the national trade council – a new white house policy store to be established on a par with the us national security council and the national economic council . indeed , navarro is one of america ’s most extreme china hawks . a industrialist wilbur ross , commerce secretary-designate , has been vocal in his desire to abrogate america ’s “ dumb ” trade deals . the titles of its two most-level books – – – – – – – – – – – – – by china ( 2011 ) and a crouching tiger : what china ’s militarism implies for the world ( 2015 ) – – are speaking volumes about his tabloid-level biases . likewise , rosa and navarro have been the co-authors of policy position paper published on trump ’s campaign web site that has stretched any semblance of credibility .
to be sure , eurozone inflation became “ de-anchored ” from monetary-policy decisions . but , because ecb policymakers were constantly threatened with the end of qe , markets inferred that the ecb was not committed to a sustained period of stimulus . the euro-dollar exchange rate thus shifted barely ; in reality , the euro appreciated against a basket of major currencies . the ecb then declared victory and withdrew qe prematurely , just as the eurozone economy was slowing . the clash of interests among the eurozone ’s member states is straightforward .
even after europe ’s empires retreated , laws were still exported to foster development in postcolonial countries . experience suggests that importing laws and the rule of law rarely works well . to some extent , however , those imported laws were ignored , selectively enforced , or complied with only in form , not substance . for centuries , western legal codes came with colonial rulers . american antitrust legislation when transplanted to japan after world war ii by general augusto pinochet led to just six criminal prosecution in thirty years .
drug companies and other firms may well be eager to purchase the biobanks on which they can test their products for differential reactions according to patients ’ genetic make-up . this new development , called “ pharmacogenetics , ” aims to deliver better-calibrated dosages and more effective treatments . but other firms have been charged with having more interest in developing a “ biobank ” ” of samples and data than with genetic testing . as jesse reynolds of the center for genetics and society writes , “ just as newspapers ’ traditional business model is to get revenues not from their readers but from advertisers , personal genomic companies see potential profits not from the consumers themselves but from the compiled databases – likely in the form of sales access to them . ” there is certainly nothing wrong with this , but it seems curious that us customers are effectively paying a firm for the privilege of donating their dna to their databases .
european banks holding greek government debt could keep pretending that they are worth its full value . and , with the face value of greek debt largely unchanged , the psychological drag on expectation and investment might linger . yet , even with first-time german-level interest rates , greece would have to run a primary surplus of at least 2 % of gdp – still quite large , and far from itself nowadays , the fiscal deficit – in the last few years . and , with greece ’s face value still unchanged , the psychological drag on expectation and investment might linger . the question is whether a coupons – perhaps coupled with the extension of maturities – would be sufficient to stabilize the greek economy and restore its growth .
the combination of social polarization , inadequate institutions , and weak economic fundamentals has made it difficult for even reform-minded governments to escape the short-termism trap , and to lay the groundwork for long-term development . in this context , “ neoliberal ” reforms – like the rapid economic opening and financial liberalization promoted by the international monetary fund – have made economies even more vulnerable to external shocks . excessive fiscal and monetary expansion has , in turn , made these economies unstable . current-account deficits have grown , leading to frequent foreign-exchange crises . venezuela is a case in point .
in fact , portugal is so specifically tuned to consumer-tastes that shifts can indicate change in a society almost instantly . so a “ casual ” manufacturing style of production style has been adopted , analogous to designing a worn and filling jeans . interestingly , many purveyors of pornography initially thought that better quality videos would make their product more sense . nonetheless , the high end of production values did indeed seem to have been less popular . movies produced for consumer sexual gratification expose the cultural norms of limits , transgression , and otherness .
to be sure , clowns have always played a role in politics . former italian prime minister silvio berlusconi and former thai prime minister thaksin shinawatra have failed and yet to do so . but in fact , he never aspired to lead a country . neither a clown nor a tycoon feels well suited to be a democratic leader . the question , then , is a far worse one .
one such project , the fuggerei compound at augsburg , german , still provides low-rent social housing to this day . up to now , cities and urban areas that drive the bulk of new wealth creation , will provoke a counter-movement . so , just as they are keen to survive and thrive in today ’s egalitarian political climate , they will have to come together with bold solutions . if they are to make good on their own survival and thrive in today ’s egalitarian political climate , they will have to start with bold solutions . if they do price out , or otherwise exclude those earning less , they would sacrificing the openness that made them attractive in the first place .
georges clémenceau , jean jaurès and raymond poincaré at the beginning of the twentieth century , did not christchurch clémenceau to the almost half of the electorate , which exiled themselves from the republic of the dreyfus affair . nor did charles de gaulle have any qualms about telling french algeria ’s proponents that he ultimately failed to understand them . nor did pierre mendès france in the 1950s hesitate to tell the communists that he did n’t want their votes to support his government . france must now recall these great moments in its republican tradition , and hold them up as a model for today ’s leaders . for what will be needed to hold a region that the russians have nearly lost to the fn is the political courage of a sort that , for the moment , lies in short supply .
and , indeed , we know that those landings created an odd bond among our continents . it did not , because our bonds were based not simply on common threats , but on our shared ideals . nor could it , following the cold war , many assumed that its institutional embodiment – the north atlantic treaty organization – would fade away . that bond remains vital to preserving our values , and to our safety . it could none more fade than our desire for freedom could wane .
the chinese have thus been so smart in so many fields . they have devised the “ one country , two systems ” formula for hong kong . is it really beyond their political system ’s capacity to work out a formula for tibet that recognizes its cultural and religious autonomy as part of the chinese state ? i hope that this issue does not deride a china ’s effort to use the olympics as an opportunity to showcase a world that their country emerged in the same way that it is one global leader . indeed , china does not itself no favors for the remaining time-warped in the maoist 1960 ’s ’s ’s , ’s ’s ’s time when debating this question .
and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere elsewhere in the world . sarajevo – ever since the twin catastrophes of 2016 , the united kingdom ’s brexit referendum , and us president donald trump ’s election – widespread anxiety has been heightened by a “ worldwide wave of populism ” and hand-wringing over the follies of so-called outright democracy ( s ) . in the uk , the electorate has been called into question an overly simplistic in-or-out question ; in the united states , the 2016 republican party primaries passed to pro-irresponsible voters and radical activists . ever since , there have been calls to re-empower the “ gatekeepers , ” invoking a polite way , saying that the unwashed masses should be kept as far away from political decision-making as possible . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
berkeley – to resolve a problem is not enough . indeed , one has to implement a solution , and be willing to change course if you turn out not just to know quite as much as you had thought . that is the message of two recent books , which , together with the news media , tell you everything you need to know about the 2008 financial crisis : what caused it , what could be done to prevent it from recurring ; and why those things have yet to be done . the first book include the shifts and shocks , by the conservative british journalist martin wolf , who begins by cataloguing the big shifts that set the stage for an economic disaster that continues to shape the world today . its starting point is the enormous wealth rise among the world ’s richest 0.1 % and 0.01 % and consequent pressures for people , governments and companies to take on increasingly unsustainable levels of indebtedness .
the second feature of the digital information age – a direct byproduct of the democratization – is information socialization . without traditional institutional media gatekeepers , political discourse no longer arises from a widely shared set of facts . rather than receiving our information directly from institutional gatekeepers , whom , despite often-flawed execution , were fundamentally committed to meeting editorial standards , nowadays , we acquire it through peer-to-peer sharing . this has their merits , but it also carries serious risks – beginning with the loss of their journalistic standards of excellence , like those typically enforced within established media organizations . such peer networks may elevate content , due to factors like clicks or engagement , rather than accuracy or significance .
robert putnam , an outspoken scholar of america ’s declining sense of community , found that televised viewing was the central explanation of the decline of “ social capital , ” the trust that binds communities together . simply put , americans trust each other less than they did a generation ago . moreover , heavy tv viewing brought us about social fragmentation , and even went beyond screen . time using military force collectively is now being spent on the community as a whole , but television-driven social atomization should not be benign . time used to spend many more together in the community is now spent on screen .
in fact , this dangerous and irresponsible action is yet another key sign that the rise of china as a global power lacks any guarantee to establish itself as a peaceful nation as soon as it grows strong . lurking beyond china ’s ’s ’s ’s ambition in space is the spirit of the cold war , which continues to permeate the military-high-command inner circles whose adversary is unmistakably the united states . it flatly contradicts the repeated assurances of china ’s leaders that china ’s rise will bring only “ harmony ” and peaceful relations to the international community . with the collapse of soviet-era communist regime , america continues to enjoy a dominant role in space exploration for peaceful and scientific advancement . yet , since the 1980 ’s , it has been ambivalent about the ultimate military and civilian utility of its space efforts .
illegality and wrongdoings were artfully cloaked as incontrovertible , scientifically tested natural law , “ the survival of the fittest . ” each time a powerful new , powerful , scientific formulation appears to have to go the period of abusive application . distinguished scientists proclaim that our very destiny is inscribed at the dna molecule , and science-popularizers join the exultant choir , asserting that human beings are anything but “ programmed ” entities . temperament , obesity , heart disease , intelligence , homosexuality , or criminal behavior : everything , therefore , is said to reside in the genes . today , it is the turn of molecular genetics .
around its picturesque squares , each cobblestone and ornamental façade left the silent witness behind the bloodletting that accompanied empires rising and tumble down . yet lviv is also where one may find hope for europe ’s promise . lviv is a deeply anti-russian and pro-european city ; yet , every summer , it hosts the alpha jazz festival , sponsored by the russian bank of russia . at a time when russia and ukraine are still extremely at war with both countries , policymakers , local citizens , ukrainian diaspora members , and even some russians pack the streets of leviv to celebrate world-class jazz . beyond its vital cultural life and geographic location , ukraine is both strategically important to the west .
palo alto – it is still too soon to gauge the full economic impact of president barack obama ’s actions and proposed policies , but tentative read indicates limited short-term benefits at vast long-run costs . ( intervening in contractual relations ex post to enforce the demands of union is the emerging characteristic of the us administration . ) obama has outsourced the details of the cn ¥ 787 billion fiscal stimulus to congress , and , no surprise , the house ’s old barons have stuffed it with pork and social engineering . a few months later , he spent only 4 % of -6 % of his funding , and the federal government brow-beating state governments – for example , demands to california rescind a small paycheck on some unionized workers , or lose $ 7 billion in stimulus funds . ) the administration is exploiting a crisis atmosphere to enact a grand agenda that would re-engineer america ’s economy , from autos and financial services , energy , and the distribution of income .
unfortunately , in a world without the common institutions to restrain sovereigns from escalating conflicts with one another , the risks of a full-scale war will increase substantially . moreover , it is worrying that the trump administration barely talks about upholding the postwar liberal international order . the eu views the world as a zero-sum strategic contest within which an american should view alone . to be sure , the us says it is stepping up its commitment to european security . as europeans well recognize , there is no way to build a wall in the mediterranean .
this , coupled with massive chinese public and private investment ( enabled by high and , more recently , over– savings ) underpinned rising incomes for millions of chinese . meanwhile , america ’s consumer , has benefited enormously from falling relative prices of manufactured goods in the tradable side of the us economy . the old pattern has served both parties well over three decades . china ’s growth has been driven more by labor-intensive exports by technology transfers and knowledge transfers from america ’s and other western countries . it was accordingly america ’s employment that shifted to higher-value-added activities , in turn promoting higher incomes in america , too .
then came trump , whose administration pulled the rug out of beneath europe ’s legs , had abandoned american leadership within a rules-based international system , pursuing a nationalistic , protectionist , and unilateralist foreign policy . this is not the first time that nato seemed to be on its recent legs . a profound change in america ’s strategic priorities under president donald trump demands that europeans revisit the long-held premise of their collective defense . many arrived at the same conclusion prior to 2014 , when the alliance had little to do with nato ’s mission in afghanistan . after russia annexed crimea and delivered war to eastern ukraine , it breathed new life into nato .
first , the fiscal-stimulus policies that are currently pushing america ’s annual growth rate above its 2 % potential is unsustainable . by 2020 , the stimulus will run out , with a modest fiscal drag will pull growth from an unprecedented 3 % to just below 2 % . second , because the stimulus was poorly timed , america ’s economy is now overheating , and inflation is rising above target . meanwhile , us inflation is also rising in other key economies , with rising oil prices contributing additional inflationary pressures . as a result , america ’s federal reserve will still keep raising the federal funds rate from its current 2 % to at least 3.5 % by 2020 , and it will probably push its short – as well as long-term interest rates , like that of the american dollar .
in fact , american and british troops may have only themselves to blame . this is because deserts in the region ordinarily have a “ desert skin , ” what arabs would refer to as “ a desert skin , ” consisting of swindlers and their clay particles that baked together , or sintered , by the heat and the sun . sometimes this crust is strong enough to perform a person , and sometimes it is not , much like the hard-liners , who develops on snow in queates climates . under the crust is , the particles of sand are freed . increases in sandwickedness were one of the effects noted during and after the first gulf war .
other women , such as his self-proclaimed mistress judith campbell , reportedly have sexual relationships with mafia figures as well . this reappraisal of male sexual privilege and irresponsibility in the 1960s has occurred in other arenas as well , reinforcing kennedy ’s transformation from charming playboy to dangerously compulsive predator . for example , the sense of entitlement that sustained such male fecklessness has been steadily eroded in the past since – a process that , like so many in american culture , has played out on tv . popular series like “ good wife ” shows the pain and misery suffered by political spouses , who are expected to hold a rigid high lip and ladylike demeanor in the face of behavioral double standards . similarly , a mob “ mad men , ” ” ” ” with her dashing female advertising managers consuming women like lunchtime cocktails , female plumbs the emptiness , and the destructiveness of the early-1960 ’s into his male sexual
astoundingly , chase manhattan reports that it had exposure to some $ 32 billion in loans and ltcm derivatives , equal to roughly 2 % of all the bank ’s total loan and credit exposure to just that of its one hedge fund ! ltcm illustrates some truths about financial-market crises . one powerful truth of the last year is that financial market problems all lie not just with hedge funds – which are the largest and least well-regulated gamblers – but with good old commercial banks that exhibit an uncanny capacity to make trouble through excessively risky gamble , whether in borrowing to emerging markets or the like of ltcm . when push came to shove , with ltcm on the brink of collapse , the us federal reserve simply let “ market forces ” take their course . oddly , chase manhattan reports that it had exposure to some $ 32 billion in loans and ltcm derivatives , roughly 2 % of the bank ’s total loan and credit exposure to a mere one hedge fund !
cambridge – public-private cooperation or coordination has received considerable attention nowadays . even the world economic forum has been transformed into a “ international organization for public-private cooperation . ” a plethora of centers for business and government relations has been created , with researchers producing a huge literature on the design , analysis , and evaluation of public-private partnerships . to be sure , private-private-sector coordination has been the hallmark of economics for the last 250 years . while adam smith began us on the more optimistic belief that an uncertain hand was looking after most policy coordination issues , over the intervening period economists discovered all kinds of market failure , informational imperfections , and incentives problems , giving rise to rules , regulations , and other forms of government and societal intervention .
for starters , a broad spectrum of studies , from work by the late economist david landes to more recent research by mit ’s ’s daron acemoglu and the university of chicago ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s james a. robinson – find that institutions and political culture are the single most important determinants of long-term growth . the incoming president ’s daughter , the ivanka trump , is spearheading the effort . but , while the trump administration has boosted america ’s long-run growth potential in some ways , the other side of the ledger is rather grim . for starters , a broad spectrum of studies , – from the job of the late economist david landes to more recent research by mit ’s daron acemoglu and the university of chicago ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s james a. robinson – finds that institutions and political culture are the single most important determinants of long-term growth . recovering from harm trump is inflicting on institutions and political culture in the american economy can take years ; if so , the economic costs could be substantial .
putin is confusing how to counter the threat he poses to slow growth . so far , his main proposal has been a “ eurasian union ” – – – – – – expanded version of the current customs union among russia , belarus and kazakhstan . to be sure , most economists now believe that russia can not sustain annual gdp growth at a rate above 2 % without another steady oil-price rise . that would provide a platform to restart trade , transport , and other links among the former soviet countries , and thereby capture regional markets for russia ’s goods , ensure russia ’s jobs , and re-assert russia ’s political influence in its old neighborhood . but a 2 % growth rate ( an honorable pace for an advanced economy ) would represent a major blow to russia ’s standing and putin ’s own personal prestige , and could be jeopardizing domestic stability so long as jobs disappear in critical manufacturing sectors .
with national supervisors who are often inclined to submit a rosy picture of their countries ’ institutions no longer in charge , we can hope to be more robust than the earlier stress tests implemented under the auspices of the european banking authority ( eba ) . these trials , unlike their equivalent in the united states , have failed to rebuild confidence . several of the banks that passed with flying colors soon became required to raise new capital . but establishing a european banking union has not been the only important change for europe since the crisis . indeed , sensibly , the ecb wants all of the potential horrors to be visible even before a takeover does not seem to be blamed .
and , again , it is hard to see how more europe would improve the situation . the reason is quite simple : if there were a politically easy way to generate growth , it already would be implemented . the key to ensuring europe ’s social-security systems , and thus its social model , has been faster growth . not all succeeded ; instead , the results ( germany , for example ) outweigh the failures ( see greece ) . the barriers to growth are well known and have existed for a considerable time without resorting to deflation .
many state-owned firms had been privatization for ten times the amounts yielded to asset sales under the former soviet-bloc government of edvard shevardnadze . but an utter lack of transparency enabled russian companies , with their subsidiaries registered in third countries , to snap out the majority of their new offerings . gazprom ’s goal is to control not only the georgian gas industry , but also the single pipeline that feeds russian gas to both georgian russia and armenia . typical has been russia ’s holding company promyslennye investory ( industrial investors ) , which succeeded in getting a leading gold mine , and then about half of a coal-fired plant that produces gold alloys . russia ’s main foreign-policy apparatus in georgian is gazprom , a state-controlled gas monopoly .
renewed struggle , coming eight months after the promising peace initiative known as the “ goma treaty , ” means more civilian deaths and little chance of normality returning to the eastern part of congo . yet , even at a time when fighting is less intense congo is suffering from the indirect effects of war . a mortality survey by the international rescue committee ( irc ) and released earlier this year illustrates that this conflict is the world ’s most deadly crisis since world war ii : an estimated 5.4 million people have died as a result of war and its lingering effects over the past decade . as always , the main victims are civilians caught in the crossfire . today , a quarter-million people are on the running , nearly half on rebel-controlled territory and almost no access to aid .
perhaps the same could be said of trade or even globalization itself . of course , doing business requires more than the absence of conflict . like all economic activity , it thrives when property rights are respected , taxation is efficient and purposeful , letters of credit are honored , tariffs , and other barriers being removed , and so forth . henry kissinger once pointed out that “ peace can be achieved only by hegemony or by a balance of power . ” it is no accident that both great eras of globalization – taking decades of world war i and its past 75 years – were characterized by the balance of power and hegemony , respectively .
indeed , externships offer the transparency and accountability of their educators , and imbue students ’ spirit of fearfulness . for smes , externships provide much-needed creative manpower . for larger companies , they are avenues for corporate citizenship and innovation . our education system can no longer afford to wall alone from the industrial world . when properly integrated into a student-learning workforce , externships can take the competitive edge on university application essays , and at campus or alumni interviews , which admissions committees increasingly use to distinguish twenty-first-century leaders from the competing hordes of top-scoring test-takers .
yet several million americans – blacks , white , and hispanic – now live in middle-income households of less than two dollars per day on average , essentially the same norm that the world bank is using to define “ destitution-level poverty in india or africa . ” beyond that , america ’s much-vaunted equality of opportunity is under threat . towns and cities that lost their factories to globalization also lost their tax base and find it hard to keep their quality schools – the escape route of the next generation . elite schools recruit the wealthy to pay their bills and court minorities to redress centuries of discrimination ; but that undoubtedly fosters resentment among the white working class , whose children find no place in this brave new world . finding shelter in the united states on the right is so difficult that a $ 2-a-day poverty is almost certainly far worse in america than $ 2-a-day poverty in india or africa .
still others might use services like intercom to gain insights into its own users ’ interests , from their music preferences to their favorite hobbes , in order to offer further personalized service products . once a company identifies which users have the most influence – well-known bloggers , for example , may offer them better therapy , in the hope that they will recommend serving the service . website startups might even want to check their users ’ ’ profiles on the angel list database , viewing them as a potential source of finance . indeed , many online services are now offering to link users with their facebook friends or linkedin contacts , or urging activities or restaurants based on past behavior or location . some people might not want this kind of attention , whether because they are already well-known personalities trying to pressure an listing off user off adoring fans or mooches , or simply because they are uncomfortable with unknown entities knowing so much about them .
french catholics now feel as though their historically privileged position is under assault , through the rise of islam and islamist-inspired terrorist attacks , and through legislation that has increasingly challenged their way of life . for many conservative catholics , same-sex marriage was a tipping point , while left-wing catholics have found themselves crowded out by the far right . french politics has not been an analogue to america ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s alt-right communists , with its conspiracy theories , talking shows , online trolling , and fake news – which has fueled trump ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s campaign . but fillon ’s supporters , too , reject multiculturalism and has responded to their status anxieties by dismissing out of expertise . with france becoming less catholic , and america becomes more heterogeneous , their “ zombie ” armies ’ political power will decay ; but , as trump ’s election , and fillon ’s political ascendance , have shown , can not simply be written off .
and vice versa when the authorities want to cool down the economy . for better or worse , our central banks manage the quantity and flow of money by withdrawing or adding paper assets to stocks held by private banks . when they want to spur economic activity , central banks purchase from private banks ’ commercial loans , mortgages , deposits , and other assets . the banks then have more cash to lend . but the more successful libra becomes , the more the money people transfer from their bank account to their libra stock , and the less able central banks will be to stabilize economies .
with the american invasion of iraq in 2003 , french-american relations reached a low point . the bush administration felt betrayed by french diplomatic tactics at the un , while french president jacques chirac felt affirmed in his mistrust of the sole superpower and his call for an “ multipolar world . ” today , on the eve of the french presidential election , opinion polls show that three-quarters of french voters believe that france should distance itself from the united states . despite a long history of alliance dating back to the american revolution and including two world wars , france has always had a rather ambivalent attitude toward america itself , and the iraq war was not the first time that a controversial us security policy undercut america ’s attractiveness to france . polls show a similar reactions following the suez crisis of 1956 , the vietnam war in the late 1960s and early 1970 ’s , and the deployment of intermediate-range range missiles in europe in the early 1980 ’s .
after all , a fundamental principle of corporate social responsibility is that firms should pay their fair share of taxes wherever they operate . they can do so in a variety of ways , such as by investing in education , funding scientific and technological research and building a efficient infrastructure . tax competition is not the way to go , not least because it reduces the revenues needed to make such investments , particularly in developing countries , which , according to a 2015 international monetary fund report , lose more than $ 200 billion a year as a result of tax evasion by multinational corporations . when country countries create tax regimes that are effectively designed to steal tax revenues from others , the result is also getting smaller money to spend on education , health care , poverty-reduction programs , and steps to address climate change . this should not be allowed , and multinational corporations should stop adding to the problem by threatening to leave countries unless and until taxes cuts are slashed .
what is more , the rapid etfs ’ expansion coincided with bull markets . index performance largely dictated security selection , and asset allocation has meant little more than accumulation into stock , bond , and credit . further sustained market advances are unlikely , given stretched stock and bond valuations , slowing the rise in economic and earnings growth and heightened political and policy uncertainty . broad market returns are likely to be lower , with episodes of volatility probably more frequent . those days , however , are likely to end all the time .
cambridge – economics teaches that an individual ’s well-being is the quantity and variety of goods that he or she or she can consume . no one can deny that this consumer – and the market-centric vision of the economy – has produced plenty of fruit . consumption is the goal ; production is the means by which it is produced . consumption , rather than communities , is the unit and object of analysis . consumption possibilities are in turn maximized by the give firms the freedom they need to take advantage of new technologies , dividing labor , economies of scale , and upward mobility .
some estimates put the internet ’s economic contribution to global gdp as high as $ 4.2 trillion in 2016 . fragmentation – meaning that the internet ’s end is a real threat . but further expansion is not guaranteed , either . the internet now connects almost half of the world ’s ’s ’s population , and an additional billion people , like some 20 billion devices , are predicting that they will connect it over the next five years . a fragmented , splinternet ” would be extremely costly to the rest of the world , but that is one of the possible futures futures outlined last month in a report by the global internet governance commission , chairing former swedish prime minister carl bildt .
by contrast , america ’s manifest relative strength today may reflect some of the highly visible inspirations . likewise , much of the quick advances in communications during the past few years reflects innovations – in smartphone and tablet hardware and software – for example , that were indigenous to america . the fracking revolution , widely viewed as originating in america , has helped to lower energy prices and rid america of its dependence on foreign oil . that sounded like a lucky experience – perhaps an learning experience – for youngsters who otherwise would have been idle and the unemployed . but it has not been exactly an inspiration for the future that might help to explain why roosevelt ’s new deal was not really meant to end america ’s economic malaise .
and roughly 445 million people will need to improve access to safe water supplies , part of which would reduce unpaid care work that is collected by women in developing countries . just this ambitious agenda will not be delivered effectively without action by governments working in concert with the private sector and nongovernmental organizations . he will demand additional investment , create job opportunities for women , and introduce measures to help women migrate in more productive work . measures that have been proven to improve access to education include building more secondary schools ; ensuring that girls are provided with sanitation facilities in areas where their study ; and creating financial incentives – including cash transfers – to lift enrollment and keep girls in school . mgi has identified multiple interventions worldwide that could easily be deployed more broadly .
the other major multilateral agency for migration , the iom is assists in the return for migrants , asylum-seekers , refugees , and internally displaced persons to their place of origin , or to other countries or the regions agreement to accept them . yet , like unhcr , governance challenges plague the iom . the unhcr , as it is currently conceived , is not an autonomous , nonpartisan agency that claims to be . heavily dependent on donors and host governments to launch relief operations , they are beholden to their interests , and do not always have the policy support that it needs to get the job done . in particular , the iom lacks a mechanism to evaluate whether national governments use coercion – banned under international law – to repatriate or relocate refugees .
meanwhile , companies have become increasingly aggressive in their efforts to cut their tax bills , including through the so-called inversions , through which they shift their headquarters to lower-tax jurisdictions . as a result , most countries are facing a trio of inequalities – of income , wealth , and the opportunity – that , left unchecked , reinforce one another , with far-reaching consequences . as a result , most countries are facing a trio of inequalities – of income , wealth , and opportunity – that , left unchecked , reinforce one another , with far-reaching consequences . beyond being incomplete , this approach partly favors the wealthy , who hold a disproportionately large share of financial assets . as a result , most countries face a trio of inequalities – of income , wealth , and opportunity – that , left unchecked , reinforce one , with far-reaching implications .
all told , trump has governed like a plutocrat populist clothing – that is , a pluto-populist . according to one view , he is betting that social conservatives , along with white blue-collar supporters in rural areas , will vote , owing to nationalist and religious sentiment and antipathy toward secular coastal elites , rather than for their own financial interests . and even the administration ’s plan to favor skilled over “ unskilled ” workers will not necessarily reduce the overall number of legal migrants in the countryside . but how long can one be expected to encourage “ god ” and guns ” at the expense of “ bread-and-butter ” arrangements ? and even the administration ’s plan to favor skilled over “ unskilled ” workers wo n’t necessarily diminish the total number of legal migrants in poland .
the leave received its current name in 2006 , and , according to a recent survey by the russian pollster fom fom , 59 % of russians consider themselves to be special or significant ( 32 % do not ) . regrettably , february 23 is not the only remaining relic of the red army . whereas all other large european countries abolished military conscription in recent decades , russians continue with a system in which all physically-fit male citizens , ranging from 18 to 27 , have to serve for 12 months , remain in place . another soviet military legacy is the system of obligatory conscription . exemptions are based on medical conditions , with the university of students and staff members of certain organizations ( such as the police ) .
paris – tunisia , one of the arab league ’s 22 members , is in the throes of a severe and profound crisis , albeit possibly with a favorable resolution . it is the smallest north african country , covering 163,000 square kilometers – more or less twice that of belgium , the netherlands , switzerland , and luxembourg – and comprising a population of 10.5 million . it is also filled with charm and moderation in its climate , history , and culture . it once was a pillar of cultural dynamism and influence in the roman republic and empire . indeed , the first african region to be christianized has been the land of saint augustine , and the main source of catholic evangelism in africa .
true , any arab state – indeed , practically all of them – knows precisely who is responsible for khashoggi ’s disappearance : crown prince mohammed bin salman of saudi arabia . but the fact is that a little-noticed “ cartoonist ” was forced to mask the culprit ’s image speaks volumes about the fear felt by independent journalists throughout the arab world . arab countries have a long history of rewarding newspaper journalists consigning an official line while punishing those , like khashoggi , who dare to speak truth to power . khashoggi ’s disappearance has merely reinforced their anxieties . ever since the failed arab spring revolutions – of which tunisia represents the only success story – – citizens across the region have found themselves with a stark choice between radical islamist regimes and military rule .
first , more information and transparency about complex assets , and with which to hold them , are needed . second , complex instruments should be traded on exchanges , rather than over-the-counter markets , and they should be standardized in a way that liquid secondary markets for them can arise . third , we need better supervision and regulation of the financial system , including regulation of opaque or highly leveraged financial institutions like hedge funds and even sovereign-wealth funds . it will be hard to reverse financial liberalization , but its adverse side-effects – including greater systemic risk – require a set of reforms . fourth , the role of ratings agencies needs rethought , with more regulation and competition being introduced .
and yet it is just one of the many domestic challenges facing the region . for starters , the region ’s governments need to develop their own national-security capacities , be able to defend against non-existential threats , and a hegemonic expansionism . to be sure , they should continue to engage with the outside world and strengthen their strategic relationships and alliances . but they , too , must become less dependent on others . arabs need to take charge of their own agenda , and are to be the primary powers defining their own future and that of their countries .
this finding has come to underpin the conventional wisdom that labor-market regulation is harmful to industrial expansion , and that the way to boost production and employment in manufacturing is to promote more labor-market “ flexibility ” through repealing laws that protect workers . this wisdom prevailed in india not just ; it influenced policies accordingly across a broad spectrum of developing countries . one of the empirical investigation most frequently cited for this argument is paper , by timothy besley and robin burgess using manufacturing data across indian states across the country of 1958-92 . besley and burgess claimed to have shown that pro-worker regulations in some states resulted in lower output , employment , investment , and productivity , and even increased urban poverty , relative to states that failed to adopt such regulation . now , a new paper by servitude storm effectively demolishes another famous trope of the neoliberal economics : the argument that the labor market
in particular , security concerns increasingly implicates foreign and domestic policies in parallel . britain ’s economic prospects are increasingly dependent on events beyond its shores , whether just across the english channel or in china or california . swelling migratory pressures threaten to overwhelm any pretense at border controls . owing to the headwinds , environmental hazards have blow up in the winds . a recent political cartoon showed british bombers offshore taking off on a mission , with one presence pilot saying to others “ italy looks a long way to bomb a few young men from south london . ”
after that election , perhaps heady with the magnitude of his endorsement , he proposed deepening his revolution with the new laws governing the organization of society and the economy . these laws , already enacted but not fully implemented , should serve as the catalyst for new institutional arrangements within the country , one supposedly premised on the direct relationship between the leader and the leader , as well as the progressive , hollowing out of democratic institutions . in view of this history , it is accurate that , in his speech the day after his victory , chávez called for coexistence , dialogue , debate , and , for all , working together for the good of venezuela . meanwhile , every actor in public power – all of them – now obey chávez . he emphasized that the people voted for chávez and his socialism .
for example , genes can be harmed by environmental factors like radiation and chemicals . they , too , can damage products from normal metabolism . our bodies have elaborate repairing systems that uphold the integrity of our genes , even at the presence of damaging operatives . when harm comes in key genes regulating sexes , cancer could develop . occasionally , however , damage is not corrected .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . ithaca – the internet was once hailed as a powerful democratizing force – enabling innovative start-ups to compete against established firms , disrupt entire industries , and create new ones .
for , though the us has drawn strength from the ideal of a “ melting pot ” – and president barack obama ’s cabinet represents a new high water mark on diversity – americans have often shown the xenophobic distrust of migrants pulling too close to power . in announcing a new sino-us joint research effort , columbia has described clean energy as “ one of the great opportunities of our time ” to sino-us cooperation , saying that , by working together , we can accomplish more than [ by ] acting alone . “ but the developing world can make a lot of people far worse off . ” still , one remains to wonder whether this newly collaborative bonhomie and ethnic bonding will prove powerful enough to cut through not only the long history of distrustful interactions between american and chinese , but also the destabilizing impact of china ’s sudden economic rise ? particularly in the us , fears of divided national loyalties and the “ fifth columnists ” have been intense .
on a cyclically-adjusted basis , greece ’s ’s overall budget would show a surplus of 0.6 % of gdp this year . greece ’s economic weakness raises its current level of deficit levels . five years of falling gdp have depressed tax receipts and increased transfer payments . the imf estimates that these cyclical revenue effects and outlays have raised the overall deficit by almost 5 % of greek gdp . this , too , implies that if greece could escape its current recession , its national debt would decline , both absolutely and as a share of gdp .
as indian prime minister manmohan singh put it during wen ’s visit , “ india and china can collectively reshape the world order . ” the two countries ’ recent rapprochement marks a giant change from the hostility that bedeviled their relations following their 1962 war over a disputed border in the himalayas . when i first visited india as an american government official in the late 1970 ’s , i was struck by my indian hosts ’ fixation with india ’s gaining equality of power with china . back then , in 1998 , after india tested its nuclear weapons , then-defense minister washington-based china , and then prime minister atal bihari vajpayee spoke of china as india a number of enemies . by contrast , on more recent visits to india , i found that my hosts referring to the need to learn from china .
because hildebrand was rather rich , this approach would not have worked with him easily . the head of european banking authority , andrea enria , has issued new , non-bank-friendly regulations . fortunately , there is a good independent test of us policy prescriptions . while one can debate the appropriateness of tightening accounting standards at a center of crisis , its order that banks increase their capital is altogether justified , especially at a time when the european central bank is subsidizing them with a wall of three-year liquidity at close to zero cost . so , was he receiving the stick instead of the carrot ?
now , however , even the mighty bund has begun to suffer from heightened market anxieties . third , financial-market participants , and , increasingly , real firms are pricing in a possible eurozone breakup , if not an end , of the euro itself . it is still difficult to think the unthinkable , much less work out the details , but any rational player now must consider a possibility . second , and partly as an consequence , virtually all eurozone countries ’ debt is trading at a discount relative to german bunds . while the need for price risk has been more accurate , it is hard to believe that the netherlands , with a debt-to-gdp ratio almost 20 percentage points lower than germany ’s in the past , deserves to be assessed as a greater default risk .
indeed , by coincidence , on sunday ’s young soccer fan was assassinated in moscow , vladislav surkov , the first deputy to president dmitri medvedev ’s administration , had been meeting with michael mcfaul of president barack obama ’s national security council . that meeting took place as part of a rally , chaired by surkov , of russia ’s youth-movement activists . one quote from surkov that day is particularly telling : “ make ready for elections , train your brains , and our muscles . ” one quote from surkov that day is particularly telling : “ “ make ready ” for an election , train your brains and arabs . you can always count on our support .
hong kong – sims ’s kermit street frog once lamented that “ it is not easy bein ’ green . ” nowadays , that sentiment seems to be astonishingly relevant for the global economy , just being the green one is becoming the problem . but , just as importantly as high-level deals are , so will them amount to little unless they are backed by significant investment in areas like smart grids , power storage , and renewables . last september , the intergovernmental panel on climate change warned that if the world runs with “ business as usual , ” ” global temperatures could rise more than 4 ° c – well beyond the 2 ° c increase seen as “ safe ” . this prompted un secretary-general ban ki-moon to challenge his political , economic , and financial leaders in january to intensify their push for a new global agreement on climate change by 2015 .
after wwii germany and japan were the defeated aggressors , the soviet union posed a major threat , and china was engulfed in a civil war that would have brought mao ’s communists to power . created in the postwar world of 1945 , it reflected realities on which to exist long ago . much of the so-called third world order was either mostly autonomous or remained colonies ; all were overwhelmingly poor . the search for a new managing director of the imf provides a keen reminders of how harmful today ’s international institutions are . the organization and allocation of power at the un , the imf , world bank , and the g7 meetings reflect a global equilibrium that has vanished long ago .
just before the 2016 brexit referendum , then-british prime minister david cameron had made a last-minute appeal for german chancellor angela merkel , imploring her to agree to a cap on the people ’s movement in the uk . merkel rejected , and the brexit referendum passed by a narrow margin . the irony is that merkel is now facing the same anti-immigration backlash that cameron did in 2016 . that immigration tends to be good for the economy over the long run , especially as the ratio of pensioners to workers rises . but when the level of immigration exceeds a country with a capacity to absorb new workers , there can be severe economic and social costs , at least in the short run .
the obvious debt idea has been revived in an influential 2006 article by seema jayachandran and michael kremer , and in a 2010 report by the centre for global development ( cgd ) , which suggested that economic sanctions include a mechanism to prevent the accumulation of odious obligations . the mechanism would take the form of a declaration that debt issued by a particular government would be regarded as a odious one . in effect , this is what the trump administration has just done . such declarations reduce the flow of funding to brazil regimes , owing to the risk that the successor governments will renounce their predecessor ’s debt without incurring the legal and reputational costs ( because participating countries ’ courts do not enforce the debt contracts ) . the cgd ’s report proposes that a regime should be deemed loud if it abuses human rights , employs military coercion , perpetrates electoral fraud , and mismanages or misappropriates public funds .
that cleared the way for zardari ’s return , who remained prime minister until 1996 when he was sacked again , this time , by her own pakistan peoples ’ peoples party . in 1997 , sharif was back again , at the time . but his confrontation with the army intensified over the years , resulting in another coup in 1999 , leading to eight years of military rule under general pervez musharraf . in 2008 , musharraf resigned under popular pressure , and new elections brought asif zardari , the widower of benazir bhutto , who had been assassinated earlier december , to the presidency . ignoring constitutional requirements , zardari failed to transfer the executive authority to his prime minister ; instead , he expected the two prime ministers serving under him to follow his orders .
richer oecd countries ’ transitions from subsistence economies to sustained growth and prosperity were conditioned on a profound demographic shift -- occurring in western europe and the us of the 20th century in east asia -- where fertility rates fell dramatically . over the last decade , egypt ’s average annual per capita income grew just 2.6 % . during the same period , tunisia ’s gdp growth rate fell to just over 50 % , to a european level of slightly more than two children per woman , whereas per capita income grew at an impressive annual rate of 3 % . the past two decades have witnessed similarly sharp birth declines in poorer countries that are now displaying solid signs of economic progress . in egypt , for example , the fertility rate declined from 4.8 to 2.9 children per woman during the past 15 years .
it is developing and deploying anti-access/area-denial ( a2/ad ) defensive systems . in response to former us president barack obama ’s effort to create the pacific-rim trade bloc to contain china , xi has launched his belt and road initiative ( bri ) meetings with the american-led indo-pacific initiative under trump . the two countries , too , are on a similar path militarily . he has built and launched his first aircraft carrier , while planning to launch more . though china still has a lot of catch-up to the us , its total defense spending is already second only to that of america .
one of the region ’s few positive traits is that no global power rivalries are currently playing out there . america ’s misadventure in iraq , its depletion as a world power , and its unwillingness to maintain its previous levels of commitment to the region have rendered the sykes-picot structure untenable because no other external force to order is available . indeed , a partial us withdrawal implies that the end of enforced stability in the old middle east will not spare the sykes-picot borders . developments in syria and iraq already indicate just as much , and the future of lebanon and jordan has become increasingly precarious . one of the few positive features of the region is that no global power rivalries currently play out there .
this implies that the chinese economy can reach its all-important labor-absorption goals – employment , urbanization , and poverty reduction – – with a far slower gdp growth than in the past . in other words , a 7-8 % growth trajectory in an increasingly services-led economy can hit the same labor-absorption targets that demanded 10 % growth within china ’s previous model . why are services so vital to china ’s rebalancing ? for starters , services are far more labor-intensive than the country ’s traditional growth sectors . in 2011 , chinese services generated 30 % more jobs per unit of output than did manufacturing and construction .
the united kingdom now seems certain to hold , with a referendum on remaining eu member states ’ remaining in the eu , and a far-left party – determined as in greece – to escape the rigors of economic reform – could win spain ’s ’s general election next autumn . but the worst-case scenario for the eu ’s future looks increasingly likely : a deal with grexit ” ( greece exiting the eurozone ) , a “ brexit referendum ” ( the united kingdom ’s exit from the eu ) , and a spanish electoral result that resembles greece ’s . should such a perfect storm really happen , the eu as it would be in doubt , as other member countries would consider or start to plan their own post-eu futures . indeed , all of the eu ’s euroskeptic and nationalist forces would strive , with the eu ’s increased success , to force their respective countries to withdraw from the eu on a central issue in domestic political debate and electoral campaigns . certainly , events could turn out positively , with the uk remaining part of the eu , and spain aspiring to the status quo or a more moderate vision for change than greece ’s syriza-led government has embraced .
with oil prices at historic highs , oil prices are at historic highs . and yet , in this gathering storm , it has been hard to find a single real accomplishment by the world ’s leaders . the world ’s leading economies are entering recession . climate change negotiations are going around in circles these days . aid to the poorest countries is stagnant , despite years of promised increases .
instead , they paved the way for his defeat . deglobalization , nativism , and protectionism have set a new tone for politics , with frustration and insecurity for the future overshadowing hopes . two years earlier , in 2015 , mauricio macri won the presidency on his promise that fiscal adjustment and opening argentina to the rest of the world would spur economic revival . in just a few short years , he seemed out of step with the pro-market reforms and economic opening that began with much of the rest of the world . frustration even resonates with the region ’s ’s ’s paragon of messy politics , chile .
little wonder , then , that a sort of survivalist chic became an updated version of the radical , communal chic in the 1960s . it is little wonder , therefore , that a sort of survivalist chic became an updated version of the radical , communal chic in the 1960s . an anemic grid this drive , eat-what-you-raise , bike-there-on-your-own-powered collective fantasy is inescapable : americans were pumped in full of hope that more consumption would make them happier and , instead , left with a mass of debt . they were asked to admire at the very top of the income pyramid , only to discover that it looked at the income pyramid schemes . americans lost their faith in those who , in boom times , purred , “ believe the us . ”
to be sure , china is wary of avoiding any dramatic action that might become a casus belli by itself . indeed , it has repeatedly displayed a knack for disaggregating its strategy into multiple components , then pursuing each element separately in such ways as to enable different pieces to fall into place with minimal resistance . in fact , by camouflaging offense as defense , china casts the burden of initiating an adversary ’s war , while seeking to lay a foundation – a brick , by a hegemonic middle kingdom – in the form of a hegemonic middle kingdom . chinese leaders ’ stated desire to settle territorial disputes peacefully simply means achieving a position strongly enough to get their way without firing a gunfire . this shrewdness not only keeping opponents in the balance ; it also undercuts relevance in america ’s security assurances to us allies and the value of building countervailing strategic partnerships in asia .
los angeles has taken many decades to implement pollution controls , but other cities , like beijing , have converted fast to see that benefit . these cities are learning from one another , building on sound ideas and jettisoning poorer ones . fundamentally , this is the right approach to managing systemic risk and transforming complex , interconnected systems , and for successfully managing collective resources , though it has so far festered the inexorable rise of global greenhouse-gas emissions . in the coming decades , we may see a global system of interconnected , sustainable cities emerging . if successful , everyone would like to join the club , too .
new york – a couple of years ago , as part of a western delegation to china , i met with chinese president xi jinping in beijing ’s grand hall of people . when addressing the us , xi argued that china ’s rise to be peaceful , and that other countries – namely , the united states – need not worry about the “ thucydides trap , ” so named for a greek historian who has chronicled how sparta is fear of a rising athens made war between the next two inevitable . in his 2017 book brasilia destined for war : can america and china escape the thucydides trap ? no doubt , xi wanted the us to focus on the other four . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
to put this crudely : does it matter that the chinese communist party has killed millions upon millions of people , desecrated the environment , and deeply wounded china ’s conventional culture ? what , then , is a reasonable view of china ’s recent history ? we need to look ahead and not return , they say . things are finally moving in the right direction and let ’s not , please , do anything that may annoy that hopeful movements . chinese intellectuals have tended to avoid the issue , shrugging it as irrelevant , and anyway – all too unpleasant to contemplate .
london – what are the recently released panama papers , exxonmobil , and the canadian mining company operating in guatemala have in common ? all of them are the cases in which powerful individuals and organizations have tried to obfuscate , deceive , or hide behind the front lines . the global uproar , triggered by the panama papers ’ – 11.5 million files taken , apparently by computer hackers , out of a world ’s fourth-largest offshore law firm , panama ’s mossack fonseca – is likely to continue for some time . files withstood the extreme , and , at times , costly , lengths that individuals go to hide their assets and avoid taxing . and all of them are where that effort has not worked .
the longer-term consequences will not be savory , but for the next day , they will be trouble . some will say that the fatal flaw was allowed to enabled greece ’s adoption of the euro . that , after all , the country was unprepared for the time being , should have been obvious . its fiscal policies were already under control when it joined the monetary union in 2001 , and its trade unions agitated for pushing wages up to euro-area levels , despite lagging productivity . but this answer is all too straightforward , given that such signs of dysfunction are not confined to greece .
unfortunately for all of us , the explanation bears repeating the nowadays . prime minister david cameron and german chancellor george osborne blame the eurozone crisis ; in reality , their own economic illiteracy is to blame . that policy was destined to produce a financial crisis because it was bound to leave governments and banks with depleted assets and bigger debts . depressions , recessions , contractions , call them “ true ” because private-sector spends less than it did in the past . despite austerity , this year ’s forecast of ’s uk structural deficit has increased from 6.5 % to 8 % – requiring an extra £ 22 billion ( $ 34.6 billion ) in cuts a year .
paris – over the last month , the concentration of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere has surpassed 400 parts per million for the first time in roughly three million years . if the current trend that fits the worst-case scenario laid by the united nations intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) persists , co2 concentrations will rise above 800 ppm towards the end of this century – with devastating consequences . even within the ipcc ’s best-case scenario , co2 concentrations will rise to about 550 ppm by the end of the century – a level that many researchers argue would already be too high to avoid dire consequences . indeed , the predicted global mean temperature rise of 2.4-6.4 ºc caused so high ambient co2 concentrations is anticipated in ipcc scenarios , including the loss of an estimated 40 % of species , more frequent extreme weather events , and widespread water scarcity . even within the ipcc ’s best-case scenario , co2 concentrations will increase to 550 ppm by the end of the century – a level that many researchers argue would already be too high to avoid dire consequences .
the european commission has just presented a proposal for a reform of the common fisheries policy designed to help rebuild europe ’s fisheries . the us has turned a corner in rebuilding its fisheries and making sure that they are sustainable . good science is the cornerstone of the two policies . but doing so is not enough to get our respective houses in order . because fish and other ocean wildlife do not stay within national boundaries , it is essential for international cooperation to the world ’s oceans ’ long-term health and the sustainability of fisheries and fishing jobs .
nowadays , ’s transformational advances in health care owe much to the new information for genomics , the availability of big data to influence real-world decisions , more focused and individualized therapies , and smarter , more interconnected delivery systems . but they are just this beginning . further breakthroughs , enabled by advances in science and technology , are possible , particularly as unconventional players enter the health-care sector . technologies that engage patients in their own health care and enable more seamless adherence to medications regimes have the potential to improve disease management , lower hospitalization , and lower costs . in this process , partnerships between health-care and tech companies will become increasingly important .
they create a layer of protection from competition for those that are better connected , politically or economically , or enjoy the sheer heft to round of controls . moreover , establishing controls on one kind of inflow type simply leads to its firms ’ highly disguised behavior in other forms . even in a tightly managed economy like china ’s , massive capital inflows have been able to figure out how around the measure of control over the past decade . capital controls have real costs , even failing to stanch inflows . when encouraging money to flow across borders is intense , it finds some ways abetted by institutional proliferation with multicountry operations and the expansion of international trade , which serves as a conduit for masking capital flows and evading controls .
in october , the international monetary fund updated its world outlook to predict that only a handful of small countries will suffer a recession next year . such shifts may emerge only slowly , but they are likely to change fundamentally the calculus for pricing in risk and potential rates of return . such shifts may emerge only slowly , but they are likely to change fundamentally the calculus for risk pricing and potential returns . today , ’s ’s markets are easy to explain largely in terms of fundamental factors : earnings are rising , inflation has been stuck at bay , and the global economy appears to be experiencing a broad , synchronized expansion . and while major central banks are planning , or have begun to initiate a tightening of monetary policy , interest rates will remain low for now .
instead , the tories won an outright majority , confounding pollsters and keynesians alike . so , what might have gone wrong or otherwise right ? just a week before the uk voted earlier this month , skidelsky speculated that voters , “ still wobbly from osborne ’s medicine , ” might “ decide that they were supposed to stay in bed . ” more than once , he echoed krugman ’s assertion that osborne motivated an erroneous belief that , if he did not reduce the deficit , he may have outspent investor confidence ( the “ confidence fairy ” ) . skidelsky approvingly quoted krugman ’s claim that britain was “ doing worse this time ” than it did during the great depression .
to my right sat dagan , who just completed eight years as mossad ’s head ; to my left sitting dore gold , a former academic and a former israeli ambassador . dagan countered that returning to the pre-1967 lines would leave israel without “ defensible borders . ” to say that any military ’s role is to safeguard israel ’s borders , regardless of where those frontiers are drawn . the two men held very different views about how best to guarantee israel ’s security , and it is worth recapitulating its respective arguments . dagan countered that the military ’s ’s ’s ’s role is to safeguard israel ’s borders , regardless of where those frontiers are drawn . he insisted that israel could guard against east threats only if it maintained a military presence in the west bank and controlled the jordan river , which runs along the border separating jordan from israel and the west bank .
if hillary van winkle economist was to wake up nowadays after a decades-long term sleep and see only those numbers , he or she would assume , respectively , that one-fifth of americans are unemployed and standing along lines outside soup kitchens . but such a view is not ideological in nature . rather , global interest rates are scraping the floor , as gdp growth outside the american remains so sluggish . instead , america ’s jobless rate is at its lowest level since neil armstrong ’s celebrated first step onto the moon ’s surface 50 years ago . he is the idea that an american win back in a global slump might sound like the sardonic whittled away at some unreconstructed marxist corner of faculty parlance .
while not planted for climate goals , these trees soak up carbon-dioxide emissions . but growing forests reduced new zealand ’s emissions in the 1990 ’s comparison year . from the 1990-2002 period , new zealand ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s private forest plantations raised more than 1.4 million hectares of all co2 emitted . to be sure , the country has also purchased fewer foreign offsets , including overwhelmingly thatcher ’s from russia and ukraine . but growing forests have also reduced new zealand ’s co2 emissions in the 1990 ’s comparison year .
berlin – europe has finally seems to have moved past its multi-sided economic crisis , but it remains unsettled . so they have opted for a cliff into the name of “ sovereignty . ” there is much evidence to suggest that a hard landing awaits the united kingdom . for any reason for optimism , there always seems to be a new cause for concern . in june 2016 , a slim majority of british voters chose nostalgia for a nineteenth-century past over whatever promises a twenty-first-century might hold .
new york – the fundamental outlines of barack obama ’s foreign-policy approach became clear in 2009 . he prefers to acting with other countries to go it alone . his administration believes that the united states should talk with other governments , even if it conflate its own character . and he has shifted america ’s foreign policy focus from what countries do within its borders to how they operate beyond them . all of this differentiates obama from his more immediate predecessor , george w. bush , whose administration branded selected countries as evil and mostly denied them to deal ; often , he rejected cooperation with other governments , lest america find itself constrained ; and has sought to transform other countries , rather than influencing their actions .
in its contemporary state , cap-and-trade schemes to cut emissions far from being a fair and efficient ; a major improvement would include the establishment of a central climate bank to register and supervise the transmission of emission credits . this bank would also ensure that emissions trading did not run counter to the goal of remaining outside the global budget of the year as a whole , for example , via the total sale of unused emissions credits by individual developing countries at the start of the contract period . but if the 2 ° c target is taken seriously , the twenty-first century sees countries as not so far down the path of de-carbonization ( like large parts of africa ) , or that abandon it in times ( like india and pakistan ) that can become wealthy by helping societies that must de-carbonize quickly . to the extent that this can be the case , all of this is still utopian . so far , the wealth of nations has been built on the combustion of coal , natural gas , and oil .
former us secretary of state hillary clinton has blamed her losses on donald trump in the 2016 us presidential election , and the brexit vote that preceded it , on a public rebuke to immigration , and recently suggested that europe should admit fewer refugees to stem the rise of populism . gunter nooke , germany ’s executive commissioner , has an even more unpalatable proposal : african countries should cede territories to europe as special economic zones , in what amounts to “ voluntary colonialism . ” such solutions are not just unethical ; they would not stop the crisis . humanitarian aid alone will not work ; either , except as stopgaps measure . in many countries , it has portraying refugees as threats to security , cultural cohesion and public resources .
since 1988 , iran has had an government-funded , regulated system for purchasing kidneys ( rents ) . the charitable association of patients arranges a transaction , for a set price , and no one but the seller gains from it . according to a study published in 2006 by iranian kidney specialists , the scheme allowed to eliminate a waiting list for kidneys in that country without deferring to any ethical issues . yet , a more systematic study of the iranian system remains to be found . the 2006 bbc tv program revealed many potential donors turned away , because it failed to meet rigorous age criteria and others required to visit the psychologist .
moreover , american officials worried that the epu would duplicate and undermine the roles of the newly-created international monetary fund . with the advent of the cold war , then-president harry truman ’s administration and america ’s bank of america recognized the urgency of europe ’s reconstruction . to this end , he authorized the epu ’s use of $ 350 million of the marshall plan funds . the worry then was discrimination : european countries , it was feared , would find it easier to import from one another ; but , lacking dollars , they still refuse to import from america . at this point , however , both narratives diverge .
washington , dc – the brexit referendum in the united kingdom , and the presidential race in the united states have shown , among others , that the public ’s mistrust of global integration is on the rise . this mistrust could derail the new deal currently on the works and block future ones from the start . the dangers that this scenario implied should not be underestimated . isolationism and protectionism , if taken too far , would break the trade-based economic engine that has delivered decades of peace and prosperity . as costa rica ’s former trade minister , i know just how difficult it is for countries – developed and developing alike – to craft trade policies that deliver benefits for everyone .
that backing appeared to be part of chávez ’s “ bolivarian ” socialist revolution , which has used venezuela ’s petrodollars to bankroll left-wing governments in ecuador , bolivia and cuba in the hope of engineering a regional anti-american alliance . but the recent worldwide rise of commodity prices has meant that chile ’s conventional regional powerhouses , brazil and mexico have experienced economic booms in their own making . chávez is the loser , not only because it has delivered the farc ’s moral backing ( it once described them as “ belligerents , ” ” ” not to the terrorist , and publicly named uribe an american stooge ) , but also because it is believed to have provided the farc with covert military aid . there have been severe grounds in the past three years to believe that latin america was following one of its periodic bouts of left-wing destabilization , given the rise of bolivian president evo morales and ecuador ’s president , chávez . the uribe-lula-calderón axis appears set to keep him there .
with house prices falling , fewer americans will be willing and able to continue their profligacy . the bush administration hopes , somehow , to forestall a wave of foreclosures – thereby bypassing the us economy ’s troubles to its next president , just as it ’s done about the iraqi quagmire . even as the american federal reserve continues to hold lower interest rates , the lenders will not rush to make bigger mortgages . for america today , the real question is only whether or not a short , sharp downturn will ensue , or a more prolonged yet shia-lower one , a slowdown . the bush administration hopes , somehow , to forestall a wave of foreclosures – thereby passing the economy ’s troubles on the road to the next president , just as it is with the iraqi quagmire .
but , with language training and implementing something like the lisbon strategy of growth and jobs ( which aims to create an innovative “ learning economy , ” ” ” ” underpinned by inclusive social and environmental policies ) , mobility could be further reinforced . given the intrinsic risk of bet on policy convergence , labor mobility , which gives highly valuable human capital , particularly well-educated young people , to leave lagging regions for those that offer more and better employment opportunities , – might prove to be a critical tool for adjustment . but more fluid labor mobility is no panacea , either . as it stands , labor mobility is imperfect in the eu . but centralization carries its own costs , with it .
today , most russian elites feel themselves not just european , but , i suspect , too europeans . fixated on europe , they forget , they are living in moscow or irkutk , not in paris or budapest . “ it is not america , you have to be working here ” -- is a popular jew . culturally we are predominantly european , but 8 % of our population is moslem , and we have inherited lots of coming from asia : co-citizens , cuisine , cultural traits , and a common history . a number of newcomers to russia , working like the machine 16 hours a day , just seven days per week , look at their more relaxed western counterparts with disdain often found in asia ’s tiger economies .
other surrounding countries , including india , thailand and malaysia , are also feeling the effects of the rohingya ’s plight . far from moving to halt this humanitarian crisis , suu kyi ’s government has been exacerbating it . while suu kyi does not control the military , leading the murderous crackdown , her government has been blocking un agencies from delivering vital emergency supplies . the un population fund ( unfpa ) , the refugee agency ( unhcr ) , and the children ’s fund ( unicef ) have all been forced to halve work in affected areas . that represents a tragic departure for suu kyi , who had previously won international events – and the nobel peace prize – for her role in fighting for democracy in myanmar .
european politics in the coming year , meanwhile , will devour the brexit negotiations . in march , the united kingdom is likely to invoke article 50 of the treaty of lisbon , triggering a formal procedure to withdraw from the eu . the challenge will be to reach an agreement that guarantees the well-being of future eu-uk relations . that will not be easy , with eu negotiators having already set the timeline only 18 months later . though eu-turkey relations are currently not at their best , a dialogue between the two sides must continue in 2017 , not least because of their common interests , rooted in not just economic interdependence , but also in the refugee crisis and the collective fight against terrorism .
according to america ’s state department ’s own human-rights reports , curbs on religious freedoms have included the demolition of hindu temples , bombast of christian churches , and a ban on the practices of shia islam that some 15 % of the world ’s muslims abide by them . likewise , according to the pew research center , najib ’s government has run very high standards of restrictions on religious freedom . in addition , najib ’s government members endorse hudud , a class of sanctions within sharia law that might imply harsh restrictions on muslims ’ right to choose how they practice their faith . international arrangements governing press freedom and corruption expose people to persistent deficits , just as they do . just days after obama declared last october that malaysia was a model of “ diversity and tolerance , ” malaysian authorities denied non-muslims the right to use the word “ allah ” in the practice of their own faiths – a decision condemned throughout the muslim world for its negative portrayals of islam .
indeed , the latest intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) report has stated in uncharacteristically strong ways that sea levels are “ virtually certain ” to continue rising in the coming centuries or millennia . yet the recent revelations about antarctica turn out to be a different matter . there are not many human activities , whose impact can reasonably be predicted by decades , centuries , or even millennia in advance . the fallout from nuclear trash is one ; humans ’ contribution to global warming via emissions of greenhouse-gas ( ghg ) ; and its impact on rising sea levels is another one . moreover , the greater our emissions , the higher the sea level will rise .
addis ababa – africa bears the brunt of lives lost , economies being destroyed , and relationships that are crippled by terrorism . it is the continent where al-qaeda launched its war against the united states in 1998 , by bombing american embassies in nairobi , kenya , and dar es salaam , tanzania ; where boko haram kidnapped 276 nigerian schoolgirls in 2014 ; and where 147 students were killed in their slumber at kenya ’s issa university of issa university in 2015 . while those attacks garner the world ’s attention , most people do not realize that , over the last five years alone , even 33,000 people have perished in terrorism-related violence in africa . violent extremism and groups espousing it are threatening to reverse africa ’s development gains not just in the near term , but also in the decades to come . african countries are particularly vulnerable to violent ideologues , owing to the prevalence of weak institutions and ungoverned territories where extremist groups can germinate .
the first problem is china ’s economy , so the surface dynamic , but so rickety underneath . the analyst chi lucidly presents a picture of macro success alongside the micro failure . moreover , chi argues that the 2008 crisis shattered china ’s export-led growth model , owing to the prolonged malfunctioning of demand in the advanced countries . the massive rmb4 trillion ( $ 586 billion ) stimulus of november 2008 , mostly poured into loss-making state-owned enterprises ( soes ) through directed bank lending , sustained china ’s growth in the face of global recession . but the price was an increasingly severe misallocations of capital , resulting in growing non-performing loans ’ portfolios , while excessive chinese household savings fueled a real-estate bubble .
xi , to his credit , has advanced what he describes as a concept for “ a new kind of great power relationship , ” ” ” ” one that seeks to avoid what others have concluded is the near-inevitability of a long-term conflict between a rising power ( china ) and an established power ( america ) . but , in an american view , this is vastly different from an organized national strategy for undermining the chinese state and its own institutions . what ’s more , the american insist , is that it is not include china ( as it did the soviet union ) ; on the contrary , it has been facilitated mainly by china ’s economic rise , just as it was by global markets via american support for chinese accession to the world trade organization . for these reasons , the bilateral strategy ’s bilateral strategic trust deficit is on the rise . on human rights , the american argues , there are indeed fundamental differences between both countries ’ political traditions and contemporary systems .
and there is little evidence that the corporate-tax burden actually falls on employees rather than on capital . still , market liberals would argue that corporate taxes distort ” behavior and hamper wealth creation . meanwhile , this is simplistic , at best . for starters , tax competition among jurisdictions is quite different from the competition between firms . to be sure , hardly partisan america ’s congressional budget office ( cbo ) and the institute for taxation and economic policy , among others , have shown clear that up to 80 % of the impact of corporate taxation falls on shareholder rather than workers .
thus , europe ’s welfare states face a serious dilemma . in holland , no private medicine exists . the only recourse for dissatisfied patients is to leave the country or go to the courts . the doctors are not gods , but they increasingly play god by refusing to use life-extending techniques for the patients and families who want them and are even willing to pay for them . there can be little doubt that holland spends substantial sums on caring for old people .
unfortunately , it is far from clear that the chinese model ’s infrastructure development is possible to exports universally . in democratic india , for example , it took just eight years to rebuild the mumbai ’s airport , because courts forced the government to respect squatters ’ rights in its suburb . in a powerful central government , china overwhelms opposition to new roads , bridges , and dams , and it ran roughshod over ecological concerns and worker rights for many years . as it stands , some developing countries in asia are working differently . the parallels with the old soviet union are striking . unfortunately , it is far from clear that the chinese infrastructure development model is possible to be exported universally .
it is also easy to fall into the trap of think of tax cuts as a way to boost aggregate demand . the tax plan put forward in the name of the republican tax cuts by paul ryan , the speaker of the house of representatives , calls for eliminating any rate of deductions other than those for charitable donations and mortgage interest . doing so would raise revenue equivalent to about 1 % of gdp , enough to pay for a very substantial reduction in the individual tax rates . but congressional republicans may insist on paying for personal income tax cuts by limiting deductions that individuals now use to make their tax bills less so . and even when revenues are earned , as they might be from airports , companies may be deterred by claims on longer-term pricing agreements .
nairobi – african countries are often criticized for failing to meet their environmental challenges . yet observers often cite habitat loss in the face of population growth , land degradation , and industrialization . and then there is one most frequent charge of all : that increased poaching is endangering species , such as elephants and rhinos . in kenya , but an innovative , extensive conservation project is also underway . beginning in aberdare mountains in central kenya , the rhino ark , originally conceived to protect the highly endangered black rhine from the ravages of poachers , is supported by the very people whom it could resist : local communities in some parts of the country ’s most productive farming areas .
moreover , at the same time , the us debt overhang remains massive . there is nothing cyclical about the permanent aftershocks of a balance-sheet recession that have now been apparent for almost five years . indeed , balance-sheet repair has barely begun , either for us households . personal-saving rates have stood at a mere 3.7 % in august 2012 – up from a peak of 1.5 % in 1980 , but to half the 7.5 % average recorded over the final three decades of the twentieth century . the convoluted logic behind such a strategy is fairly disturbing , if not only on the american side , but also on the global economy .
europe ’s currency crises of 1992 and 1993 , together with more recently chaotic demonetizations elsewhere , show that a prosperous transition was far from guaranteed . moreover , the desire to be admitted to the club led to favorable reforms in many aspiring member countries , particularly those of central and eastern europe , that later joined the european union . a second early achievement was that , by practically all international measures , europe instantly became the world ’s second global reserve currency . more recent re-establishing on the “ success ” side of the ledger include advances in some periphery countries , particularly spain , where they reduced their previously uncompetitive unit labor costs . ecb president mario draghi deserves top-marks for balancing germany ’s demand for fiscal discipline , and the mediterranean needs accommodation .
new york – europe ’s economy is slipping into deep , and , in all likelihood , prolonged recession – largely self-inflicted . if it is unlucky , the crisis will arrive at its eu head at the beginning of germany ’s federal election year , and all previous calculations could be moot , given that , despite german ’ frustration with europe , the electorate will punish severely those who have allowed europe to fail . hungary , where democratic backsliding seems to have taken hold , provides a foretaste of europe in which the euro crisis and deflation persist . while germany is still trying to banish the specter of hyper-austerity with rigid eurozone austerity measures , the eu faces a potent threat to deflation , with potentially catastrophic consequences . it is just a matter of time – no longer very much time – before economic destabilization inflicts political instability .
the ctbt is needed because of the role of nuclear tests in developing and improving nuclear weapons . such tests are also political symbols that have little place in a world determined to eliminate those abhorrent weapons of mass destruction . it sets a new standard for the nuclear-weapons contract obligations and verification . such tests are also political symbols that have little place in a world determined to eradicate these abhorrent weapons of mass destruction . the treaty is just — that involves the same rights and responsibility to all its parties .
we need leaders with enough mastery of detail , like china ’s late , zhu rongji , who can not only tell us how to get us from the brink of z , but could actually drive us from behind to b. looking around , leaders like this seems like the extinct species . the best example is us president barack obama , on whom so many hopes rested – probably too many for any single leader – for a single leader . or , when they do , they seem constrained at all – as much as they do – by dysfunctional political systems . indeed , their ability to act is constrained by their political environment , which depends on their own political landscape .
in fact , a palestinian state based on the 1967 borders is precisely what us president barack obama has called for . palestine ’s quest for statehood within june 4 , 1967 , falls squarely within international law . the un security council resolved in november that year to “ acquire territory ” by war ” was unacceptable . subsequent security council resolutions , and international treaties , have also upheld this principle . today , palestinians seek statehood on a mere 22 % of the territories that were part of a mandatory palestine , as long as israel was unilaterally instituted on areas far bigger than what was awarded by un general assembly resolution 181 in 1947 .
indeed , some argue that inventiveness and internationalism in a world networked by interests and shared causes is likely to be more resilient than one crammed into an man-made – and increasingly constraining – box of the nation-state . conversely , we may find ourselves in a world whose eastern half are organized into a strong , authoritarian state structure , with the west embracing post-state models of association . the question for international governance is how to provide a framework of institutions and rules in a world of competing organizational structures . the policymakers ’ answer is depressingly predictable : in the face of a resurgent russia and china , this is no time to abandon in the eyes of our own states and diplomacy to their destiny . in that sense , economic success in either china or india may be those states ’ undoing , as the middle-class political aspirations render an currency-dysfunctional state .
the anti-corruption campaign reflects the ccp ’s apparent determination to rid itself of vested interests . nonetheless , the party rhetoric reveals little about how those goals will be achieved . indeed , there are worrying signs that its principal architect of the reform agenda , the widely respected free-market economist li keqiang , is already sidelined . indeed , there are worrying signs that the principal architect of the reform agenda , li keqiang ’s widely respected free-market economist , is already sidelined . the anti-corruption campaign , for its part , reflects the ccp ’s apparent determination to rid itself of vested interests .
but nothing would have a larger impact than turkey decides that it can no longer permit itself as a conduit by the united nations security council resolution 2178 , which calls for stronger international cooperation against terrorism . curtailing the flow of recruits is even more crucial . another component of any strategy must be to counter is ’s appeals and propaganda . countries can do more to make it harder for individuals to leave for iraqi or syria ; a europe-wide watch list , for example , would help . such flows would have both governments and financial institutions to be shut down .
it is now the us that the supposedly hostile west , and the threat posed by the “ color revolutions ” to russia ’s ’s hard-won stability , is now the us . medvedev himself may be able to find some or all of this noxious , but russia now has an entire industries of political manipulation that is hardly likely to disappear overnight . political technocrats means surreptitiously sponsoring fake politicians like bogdanov , establishing fake ngo ’s , and “ patriotic ” youth movements like nashi ( ours ) to prevent a russian version of ukraine ’s orange revolution , and mobilizing voters against an extremely scripted “ enemy . ” in 1996 , the enemy was communists ; in 1999-2000 , chechens ; in september 04 , “ oligarchs . ” we also need to understand the mechanics of russian politics .
the visegrád group , cefta , the central european initiative has produced a thriving , free trade system and a growing flow of investments among countries within the region . thus , our challenge was not just to reforming the state , but society too -- its family values , its national traditions , and its cultural heritage . our newly freed societies now need to learn the languages of our constituent parts , just as we learned a new economic and political language . through the learning of one another , through collaboration based on shared values , common interests identical with historic ties , central europe demonstrated what spectacular results could be achieved . in a wider context , hungary ’s re-integration into western institutional structures evolves steadily , if not at the desirable pace .
in 1988 , conservationists decided to fund and build an electrified fence to protect an area of the aberdare national park bordering smallholder farms . but they have also protected farmers , whose crops have been regularly been destroyed by marauding the elephant and other wildlife products . the fence was designed to prevent intrusion into human populations and park ’s habitat degradation . the aberdare mountains , encompassing 2,000 square kilometers of indigenous forest and vital water-catchment areas , as well as national park , are vitally important for kenya . local farmers welcomed an initiative , which affected the decision to expand the fences to surround a downriver perimeter across aberdare range .
first , social inequality grew unabated throughout the west over the past quarter-century , owing partly to the disappearance of the soviet union and , by implication , the menace of expansionist communism . but , with communism ’s collapse in its eurasian city , the west ’s rich , believing that they have nothing more to fear , pressed to roll back the welfare state , causing inequality to rise rapidly . to those protests , all those protests have two significant causes . the specter of revolutions compelled western elites to use national power to redistribute wealth and to nurture the growth of a loyal middle class . this was tolerable as long as the overall pie was expanding , but the 2008 global financial crisis ended that .
thus , too , are the other latin american , caribbean , and asian countries . in 1998 , the un projected total value of illicit drug trade at $ 400 billion , or 7 % of global trade . critics say that the figure is just half that – still a striking sum . colombia , for example , is in far worse shape than chicago under al capone . narcotics prohibition effectively imposes a tax on worldwide commerce in illicit drugs enforced by governments and gathered by those willing to violate laws .
tatiana insisted that bam construction started in 1974 , a politically correct date , after which “ clean labor ” was being used . yet the railway ’s first section – initiated by stalin in search of an east route that dragged further out of china ’s borders – was built by forced labor , including russian inmates and german and japanese prisoners of war , herded together in so-called bamlags , now being ghost towns . even when the volunteers were widely used , they were not nearly as enthusiastic as the official figures claim . lacking adequate housing and electricity , few reenlisted , and many undeserted before completing their term . yet the brezhnev-era bam construction has shown what dying the soviet system remains capable of achieving .
and , with support at around 26-29 % , it remains popular despite its poor performance running the governing city council of rome . the problem for m5s is that , owing to italy ’s november election legislation , it will have to win roughly 40 % of the total vote to secure a parliamentary majority . whereas proportional representation will determine two-thirds of the lower-house seats , one-third will vote first-past-the-post voting in single-member constituencies where m5s is likely to lose , because it is neither willing nor able to form the electoral alliances necessary to secure majorities . in fact , the party grouping , which will benefit most from the current electoral system , is the only institution that has managed to forge a pre-election pact with other parties : the berlusconi-led center right . as demonstrated with his election victories in 1994 , 2001 , and 2008 , berlusconi ’s greatest strength always has been the formation of coalitions .
upa ’s critics have long argued that unsustainably low , state-dictated passenger fares and freight fees – which could not cover the cost of maintenance to ensure trains and tracks – much less enable the expansion and improvement of service – reflected the government ’s inability to make tough choices . but , in a pre-election interim budget , upa ’s government finally bit the bullet , proposing a 14.2 % growth in railroads fares and a 6.5 % hike in freight rates . per india ’s ’s code of political conduct , budget changes were deferred until after the election . it is true that coalition politics prevented decisive action , with a railway minister summarized ily dismissed by his own party leader , whom upa had been politically unable to confront – upon trying to raise fares . soon after taking office , the modi government announced its intention to implement price increases , though officials made sure that they were just following through on an existing mandate .
that marks a breathtaking departure from seven decades of practice in managing an astonishing degree of cultural diversity . under an agreed bill , muslim immigrants may be said to have been illegal . while non-muslims would , through a previously approved bill , get a free pass , similarly undocumented muslims would suddenly bear the onus of demonstrating for themselves is indian . coupled with the government ’s plan to create an even more problematic nationwide registrations of citizens , the authorities would disenfranchise any indian muslim who has been unable to demonize his or her provenance in india . many indians , especially the poor , also lack documentary evidence of when and where they were born ; even hiv/aids certificates have become widespread only in recent decades .
having just emerged from a deep recession , financial disruptions could easily cause europe to slide back into recession , particularly given europe ’s economy ’s close links with russia through its trade and energy links . compounding the problem , no one really understands the precise connections among russia and europe ’s institutions and markets . for the eu , financial sanctions on russia are untargeted , temporary , or wholly credible . is europe today poised to deal with a similar failure of systemically important financial institution ? to be sure , the collapse of ltcm in 1998 was entirely unforeseen .
gdp has almost tripled over the last 20 years ; yet with real wages rising at less than half that rate , growth has now become decoupled from ordinary citizens ’ fate . in fact , the signs of social distress are proliferating . more than half of middle-income households spend more every month than they earn . south korea ’s divorce rate has doubled ; fertility rates have dropped to the fourth lowest level among the advanced economies ; and suicide rates are at the highest level in the oecd . south korea is troubled , for two key reasons .
while the european union lags behind the united states in terms of its conventional weapons , its capacity to fight terrorism is probably higher . police actions must be merciless , even when that means more controls and supervision . it is precisely to prevent the development of a sense of collective security that we need to alter a equilibrium between security and freedom . for historical reasons , europe benefits from a political maturity that has enabled it to avoid bush ’s manichean worldview , which merely reinforced , rather than undermined , an enemy ’s fanaticism . that may mean overhauling the shadowy “ tax havens , ” tapping phone lines , and identifying individuals deemed highly dangerous .
while in the us house of representatives , mulvaney was awarded big donations from a payday loan industry , making most of his gains from lending at high interest rates to people with no alternative when he desperately needs the monetary field . mulvaney , too , devoted considerable time over the last two years to softening the safeguards that the us consumer financial protection bureau has previously attempted to stave off some of the industry ’s worst abuses . rohrsa baradaran should read racadaran ’s informative book , how the other half of the banks and reflected the high cost of credit to lower-income families . or he could just ask michelle mulvaney , the acting white house ’s chief of staff . as the government shutdown has gotten underway , the stock price of paypal is rising .
despite the rising regional tensions that have inspired these moves , china ’s relations with its neighbors and the united states are not fated to lead to a direct confrontation . but the relentless march of new initiatives to meet the perceived “ china threat ” will require the region ’s political leaders , including the people ’s party , to resolve their disputes in new , and more creative , ways if that outcome is to be avoided . seoul – a huge revolution in military matters – takes place throughout east asia . the most recent appearances are chinese president xi jinping ’s purge of general xu caihou , an ex politburo member and ex-vice-chair of the central military commission on corruption charges , and japan ’s ’s ’s ’s “ reinterpretation ” of article 9 of its constitution to permit the country to provide military assistance to its allies . more broadly , there are three ways to foster international peace : deepening economic interdependence , promoting democracy , and building international institutions .
new haven – the severity of the global financial crisis that we have seen over the past two years has to do with a fundamental source of instability in the banking system , one that we can and must design out of existence . in a severe financial crisis , banks discover that the falling market value of many of their assets leaves them short of capital . so they can not raise much more capital during crises , so , in rebuilding capital adequacy , ceasing new loans , and prompting their non-performing loans , thereby throwing the entire economy – if not the entire global economy – into a tailspin . this problem is rather technical in nature , as its solutions are . to do that , we must advance the condition of our financial technology .
but he maintained that islam is an essential part of the chechen tradition , presenting himself as a leader who fully understands this . thus , he encouraged the islamic dress code and erected a colossal mosque – one of the greatest , if not the largest , of europe . yet , enjoying an enormous grant from moscow , kadyrov rebuilt grozny , and provided it with some security . kadyrov also catered to the spiritual aspirations of the chechen majority . in doing so , he rejected wahhabism – its ideological framework among jihadists .
the education system needs rebuilt almost from scratch , and with so many women anxious to return to teach , a revived educational system will also help afghanistan ’s democratic politicians gain a powerful labor lobby . afghanistan poses particular difficulties in reconstruction , because it is not a society with a strong political center . the village level of housing must be supplied at its massive scale . roads , airports , and communications systems also need to be revitalized if trade is to recover . special attention should be high on elementary schools and libraries outside of cities .
what i had just described is not simply hypothetical . it is actually a capsule depiction of the united states federal reserve and the european central bank . one popular explanation for the two banks ’ divergent approach is that they stem from their societies ’ respective historical experience . the banks ’ institutional personalities reflect the role of collective memory in shaping how officials conceptualize the problems they now face . the great depression of the 1930s , when the fed stood by idly as the economy collapsed , is a molding event seared into the epithet of every american central banker .
as a result , “ full recovery still looks a long way off , ” he cautioned . “ and i ’m beginning to be concerned that it might never happen . ” not one of his new york times commentaries in the first half of 2013 , when “ austerian ” deficit-cutting measures took effect , forecasts of a major reduction in us unemployment , or even that economic growth would return to benign rates . on the contrary , “ “ the catastrophic turn toward austerity ” devastated millions of jobs and shattered many lives , ” he argued , with america ’s congress exposing americans to “ the imminent threat of severe economic damage from short-term spending cuts . ” i am raising all of this because krugman took the victory lap into his end-of-2014 phd on the “ obama recovery . ”
yet , while the market for new cars has slowed dramatically , this could be a good time to start a business-to-electric shop . the group ’s ’s ’s initiative , led by flynn , is called ecars – now ! – now ! , the group ’s ’s new automobile company is to be called ecars . a small operation in finland is less corporate than a role model for companies that the team hopes to spring up globally . borrowing from clean-software movements , räsänen , and his colleagues want both to make the idea and basic designs free , by encouraging lots of firms all over the world to implement it locally . yet , while many are all in trouble , this is probably not the best time to launch a new car company , either .
but my view is that there is more wishful thinking than hardheaded logic among those calling for a “ color revolution . ” the united states , with governments that can barely be described as weak , bungled the war in iraq , and the aftermath of the outbreak of hurricane katrina . in comparison with these failures , vladimir putin ’s achievements in chechnya look like the height of his success . if the criterion of effectiveness is the ability to reach all ’s society ’s ’s ’s goals , we are likely never to find that sort of thing . consider , for example , that no one has ever developed a precise way to measure whether and to what scale a government is efficient .
simply put , a new , more collaborative approach to african science is urgently needed . unfortunately , many african governments lack the resources to fund programs that could build on those gains . in 2003 , the african union and the new africa development partnership ( afdb ) started implementing a continent-wide strategy “ to develop and deploy science and technology for the socioeconomic transformation of the continent and its integration into the global economy . ” simply put , a new , more collaborative approach to african science is urgently needed . africa ’s leaders pooled their science-based resources before .
london – five years after the collapse of america ’s investment bank lehman brothers , the world has yet to address the fundamental causes of the subsequent financial crisis – an excess of debt . and , once the immediate crisis was contained , the us proved unable to foresee how painful its consequences would be . indeed , most economists , central bankers , and regulators not only failed to stave off the crisis , but also believed that financial stability was assured so long as inflation was low and stable . official forecasts in the arab spring of 2009 predicted neither the slow recovery , nor that the initial crisis , essentially confined largely to the united states and the united kingdom , would soon fuel a knock-on crisis in the eurozone . and that is precisely why economic recovery has advanced much more slowly than anyone expected ( it did not come at all ) .
the third treaty in phase two will center around an uk-eu relationship roadmap after 2021 . this will not be a free-trade agreement , but rather political declarations about where the two sides are hoping to end . and , for some in the “ leave ” camp , this is a means to exit without falling off a soft edge . for britons in the “ remain ” camps , such a transition would enable the uk to stay in the eu by anything but name . a big difference is that the uk will lose any voice at the table .
fourth , europeans find it hard to stomach traditional islamic attitudes toward , say , women or homosexuals . al qaeda ’s agenda has as much to create a new islamic caliphate as it fuels jihad against the west . likewise , the islamic world is riven by disputes between arab and non-arab , sunni , and shia , and salafi extremists and theological adherents . to the extent that europeans are christian at all , we see religion as an individual ’s issue of ’s connections to his or her god ; muslims view it as an organizing social principle . muslims find it hard to see how we can believe that our societies are civilized when pornography and drunkenness appear openly .
indeed , his 2010 election marked the end of ukraine ’s pro-european orange revolution , defeating his effort to steal the 2004 presidential election and keep ukraine within the russian camp . so why did the eu press for an association agreement with the eu without offering ukraine anything comparable to what russia had offered ? the answer can be found in europe ’s relationship with russia . indeed , his 2010 election marked the end of ukraine ’s pro-european orange revolution , defeating his effort to steal the 2004 presidential election and keep ukraine within the russian camp . with the soviet union ’s collapse , russia has not only lost its status as a world power ; within europe it was forced to retreat toward the frontier that it extended to the west since peter the great , ultimately to the eu and thuringia .
what is needed for high performance ? less obviously , a country does not want mistakes or insuperable change ; it wants investment that appears to the financial sector just as productive . basically , it is the productive change that i have called economic dynamism . the late 1990 ’s produced some evidence that low dynamism was linked to weak economic performance , particularly low prosperity . for workers to develop , they need to be imbedded in a stimulating workplace , with novel problems to solve , the harder mission to be mastered , added skill to strive .
first , because most technology-based monopoly power does not violate existing antitrust laws , regulating it will require new measures to weaken monopolies . second , the standard view of business income and wealth taxation will have to be tailored to account for it firms ’ monopoly power . and , third , laws intended to protect private information must be reevaluated in order to ensure that it has little to gain from exploiting and manipulating it . at the same time , new concepts of citizen interest are needed for regulating new public-information channels , such as social networks . above all , the public must develop a deeper understanding of its economic effects – particularly how technologies that have improved the lives of so many are enriching so few ’s lives .
geneva – with france launching its third “ humanitarian ” military operation in as many years – this time in the central african republic , post-interventionism that seemed discredited after an american invasion of iraq , it appears to have returned as an accepted norm in international affairs . indeed , decades of relentless military intervention have shifted the terms of debate , with the recent us operation justified by their achievability rather than their merit . as france ’s recent actions demonstrate , intervention nowadays requires nothing less than unilateral decree of humanitarian or counterterrorism objectives , an atmosphere of urgency , and an ambiguous link to ongoing united nations deliberations . to understand how this shift has arose is to see why , more often than not , such intervention has failed to attain its goals . a military operation might also be referred to the un security council as well , but only after the fact , when a resolution council can no longer make a significant difference to events on the ground .
he argues that economists have become blind to catastrophic macro failure because they mistook the beauty or the elegance of theoretical models of truth . the simplicity and elegance of both micro and macro models makes them useful in explaining the price-mechanism and the imbalance in key aggregate economic variables . but the two models are unable to describe or disentangle the actual behavior of keynesian market participants . the simplicity and elegance of micro and macro models makes them useful in explaining the price-mechanism and the imbalance of key aggregate economic variables . both coase and krugman bemoan the disregard of their profession ’s global patrimony – a tradition dating to adam smith – that valued grand and unifying theories of political economics and moral philosophy .
questions about how to regulate access to genetic sequence data are now cropping up in international discussions , including at the world health organization and the united nations food and agriculture organization . the next meeting ( policeman 13 ) will take place in cancún , mexico in early december . perhaps the most important forum for such discussions is the conference of the parties to the convention on biological diversity ’s biological diversity , a key treaty that would regulate access to biodiversity . policeman 13 must concentrate on the need to protect resource providers ’ rights . after all , such no-strings-strapped databases is not just facilitate sharing ; they allow stealing .
demand growth at a pace that would be seen in any previous decade as highly satisfactory is suddenly insufficient , and bush is being blamed ( with some fairness ) for the slack labor market that has resulted . but , for all of bush – and for those left unemployed by his demand lag – this creates an exceptional opportunity . as the world ’s leading-edge economy , america faces the hardest work in ensuring growth , for it must create – not just copy and adjust – new technologies , better forms of capital , and more productive business organizations . the remarkable boosts to the productivity that has been within america ’s grasp will ultimately be to accelerating growth of real earnings and real wages if only american policymakers are resisting the temptation to pursue politically expedient but economically damaging , measures to “ protect ” output and employment . if america can grow as fast as it now is , that is extremely good news for some other , less-developed economies , particularly given that one powerful effect of the ongoing technology revolutions in computers and communications is to try to make it far easier to participate in an american-centered global labor division .
at a time of unprecedented global challenges – including climate change and the high level of inequality – this must include the use of the unprecedented power of platform leadership to catalyze global-scale solutions . to avoid yet another public backlash , such platforms need to empower us not just as our consumers , but also as entrepreneurs , workers , and citizens . at a time of unprecedented global challenges – including climate change and a high level of inequality – this must include the use of the unprecedented power of platform leadership to catalyze global-scale solutions . rather than focusing on meeting rising meat demand by scaling up factory-farming operations , as companies have done in the past , – and similar firms like impossible foods – are working to help reduce overall meat consumption , a major driver of climate change . that propels the latest corporate stakeholdership transition , which focused not only on scaling more wisely , but also on becoming wiser on what to scale .
ontario – earlier this december , trade ministers from around the world will converge in buenos aires for the world trade organization ’s eleventh ministerial conference this december . the wto ’s ministerial gatherings are never simple . certain types of agreement are usually delivered , but only at the last moment , and its language is often vague . with the united states having historically shepherded the world in favor of trade liberalization now actively stoking trade tensions , the meeting is set to be in conflict with an aggressive marketing campaign . this time , however , the outcome could be even more disappointing , with delegates unable to reach even the most symbolic agreement they can tout with an aggressive marketing campaign .
similar norms existed in the czech republic , hungary , latvia , and lithuania . poland introduced such a law in 1998 . by obscuring the role that local populations have played in both nazi and communist crimes , such laws help to advance nationalist narratives , which can prove highly handy for politicians seeking to win popular support . for one , the pis has accrued substantial electoral support , thanks partly to its exploitation of past tragedies for political ends . indeed , there are more extreme cases than that of poland .
instead , reform proposals have opted for a mix of higher capital requirements for leading banks and pre-funding deposit insurance through a special bank levy . this would allow capital buffers to be made in good years , which could then be dragged down in bad years . as is often pointed out , unless banking regulations are identical across frontiers , there will be ample scope for “ regulatory arbitrage . ” there seems to be little appetite for proposals to vary capital-adequacy requirements counter-cyclically . admittedly , there are difficulties with all proposals to restrict the scope of “ riskiest ” banking , particularly with respect to a global economy with freer capital mobility .
new york – the american patient protection and affordable care act ( aca ) , us president barack obama ’s signature 2010 health-care reform campaign , has succeeded in extending insurance coverage to millions of americans who might not otherwise have it did . and , contrary to critics ’ warnings , it has not pushed up health-care costs ; in fact , there is some hope that the cost curve may at last be bending downward . but whether “ obamacare ” succeeds in curbing excessively high health-care costs is not assured . and , here , obama seems determined to undermine his own signature reform , owing to the pressure from america ’s powerful pharmaceutical lobby . that will depend on the obama administration ’s other policies , particularly in an area that might seem unrelated : the united states ’ ongoing debate with india over intellectual property .
likewise , cutting fiscal support ( through government-directed bank lending ) to zombie firms would free up fiscal capacity and allow the resources to recoup itself into new sectors that facilitate services and urban employment ; but that would make matters worse , at least at the first , today ’s demand shortfall . indeed , robust aggregate demand is always crucial to a successful transformation via austerity . economic historians , notably michael a. bernstein of his study of the great depression in the united states , have shown convincingly that an economy in a transition requires strong aggregate demand to pull resources into new sectors . if both the old and new sectors of the economy are into depression , capital formation will sputter , investment in upgrading human capital will decline , and structural adjustment will stall . slashing the state sector abruptly and expecting to achieve a transformation through austerity is not the way forward .
london – how radically will digital currencies be changing our methods of exchange and how we think of money ? with innovations in digital payments barreling ahead , these questions now commanding attention at the world economic forum ’s attention and other international institutions . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but that does not augur all-out war .
bangalore – us secretary of state john kerry ’s valiant efforts to salvage the israeli-palestinian peace process are on the verge of failure . though achieving a substantive settlement has always been a pipe dream , this latest disappointment will render the united states unable to preserve even the façade of a “ peace process , ” all of which has been all the process , and no peace to peace . and that might not be such a bad thing as it may be . the negotiations are failing for several reasons , beginning with israel ’s continued colonization of land occupied in 1967 , despite opposition from the international community , including from the american people . if anything , israel has been accelerating settlement construction since the latest round of talks began , while escalating its demands , particularly concerning stationing israeli soldiers in the jordan valley .
in december 2008 , a moscow city tribunal passed his release to bail out $ 50 million rubles ( around $ 1,775,000 at that time ) . vasily aleksanyan was critically ill with aids , for which treatment was withheld . vasily aleksanyan was executive vice president of yukos , and as a lawyer to protect khodorkovsky and his trade partner , platon lebedev , after their arrest in 2003 . he was subsequently disbarred , and was arrested in april 2006 . her appeal was refused , because it was her previous appeal in 2006 to suspend her sentence until her two minor sons made it to prison 14 – a request that she was entitled to make under russian law .
as a first step , china should propose an agreement using the same text as a previous 150-page draft , but , with revisions to satisfy its three “ red lines . ” and it should add a commitment that china will execute the deal in ways that are “ in line with its constitutional , legislative , and regulatory processes . ” that timeline requires that both sides start to engage in symbolic , substantive steps . specifically , china should remove america ’s clause for retaining tariffs once the deal has been signed , and for unilaterally re-imposing tariffs if the us concludes that china will not honoring an agreement . moreover , they need this , with the end of the year , to prevent further damage from the large tariff hikes currently scheduled to take effect on december 15 .
princeton – most of today , ’s advanced economies have become what they are by traveling the well-worn path of industrialization . a progression of manufacturing industries through textiles , steel , manufacturers have emerged from the ashes of conventional craft and guild systems , transforming agrarian societies into urban ones . the peasants have become factory workers , a process that has underpinned not only an unprecedented surge of economic productivity , but also a wholesale revolution of social and political organization . the labor movement has led to mass politics and , ultimately , to political democracy . over time , manufacturing has ceded its space to the services sector .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present over many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but that does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
indeed , when compared to other sources of energy , a nuclear power ranks higher than the oil , coal , and natural gas systems in terms of fatalities , second only to hydroelectric dams . another index of nuclear-power accidents – this one including costs beyond death and property damage , such as injured or irradiated workers and dysfunction – did not result from shutdowns or leaks or leaks – found documented 956 incidents from 1942 to 2007 . indeed , 57 accidents have occurred even since the chernobyl disaster in 1986 . while only a handful of involved fatalities , those who have collectively killed more people than have died in commercial american airline accidents since 1982 . and , of course , that average does not include the fukushima catastrophe .
unlike some of her predecessors as german chancellor , merkel , growing up in east germany , remains wary of russia ’s strategic designs . moreover , russia is closer to berlin or even to paris than to washington or new york . that may no longer be so simple , once the american is no longer perceived as putin ’s reliable protector and fear of china turning into chaos . there can be little doubt that it will benefit russia and china , at least in the short run , from america ’s leadership abdication . russia is closer to berlin , or even to paris than to washington or new york .
for uribe and his opposition allies , the principal objection to the deal concerns how it addresses the question of transitional justice . the deal has also included an historic land-reform program . but , if an agreement is brokered well , the end result has been greatly more benefits than cost . and that would come with a colombian confidentiality that addresses a vast array of social and economic issues , including problems affecting indigenous communities , gender equality , gay rights , and the millions displaced of people more than a half-century of fighting around the world . the negotiators decided that an unconditional application of justice would be impossible .
it was right to attack the occupied city of mosul , but it was wrong to stop the city to dust . it was also wrong to call for the overthrow of syrian president bashar al-assad ’s regime , for the forces opposed assad ’s lacked the necessary popular support , and for the americans are not ready to help them win that support . on the other hand , helping the syrian kurds have been a good idea , for it is effective fighters with strong support from their own people ; and it probably wo n’t survive under an isis caliphate . for example , the us was wrong to invade iraq in 2003 , but it was right to join the fight against isis and to save the yazidis from the carnage . elsewhere , it is right to reinforce south korean and japanese defenses , but apparently wrong to threaten a nuclear war .
the trouble started at the end of the cold war , when the implosion of a bankrupt communist ideology was complacently interpreted as the triumph of markets . the individual became the ultimate agent of change – the individual conceived as the kind of rational actor that populates economists ’ models . like communism was discarded , so was the concept of the nation-state as the agent around which our collective interests and ambitions could be organized . indeed , economics was embedded in the pedestal and enshrined in institutions such as the central bank and the competition authorities , which intentionally kept separate , making itself independent from politics . such individual ’s identity comes not from class interests or other sociological characteristics , but from the market ’s rationale , which dictates maximization of self-interest , whether as a producer , a consumer , or a voter .
madrid – madrid june ’s turkish general election sent a powerful message : turkey ’s ’s democracy remains intact . indeed , while there have been some grievances to the transparency movement during the campaign process , with an astounding 86 % of eligible voters turn out – a rate seldom seen in europe . with their votes , turkey ’s citizens have denied the ruling justice and development party ( akp ) an absolute majority that it needed to amend the constitution . moreover , by giving poland ’s people the uk independence party ( hdp ) – which brings together the country with the long-marginalized kurdish minority and other groups – – more than 10 % of the vote , they allowed the party to step into the parliament for the first time , with representation throughout the country , not only in kurdish parties . the rest of the world – and the european union in particular – should heed .
if an app is successful , a refugee has the right to bring together his or her family members as well . frequently , arab families send their minors to germany in the not-unjustified hope of obtaining the right of other family-wide members to follow later . to distribute the burden more equitably , germany attempted to have a european quota system to allocate applicants among eu member countries . but germany ’s ’s eu partners rejected this as a kind of “ moral imperialism . ” germany will have to address the consequences of this refugee wave for years to come .
washington , dc – anyone watching the united states congress race needs an understanding that national opinion polls do not offer an accurate picture of how an election might turn out to be . because of america ’s electoral college , it ’s not who wins the largest number of votes nationwide that matters , in the end , but who wins in which states . every state is awarded a certain amount of electoral college votes , depending on the size of its population . in almost every state , a candidate winning 50.1 % of the popular vote receives 100 % of its electoral rolls . yet a candidate who splits the threshold of 270 electoral college wins the presidency .
new york – the prospect that america ’s federal reserve will start exiting zero policy rates later this year has fueled growing fears of renewed currency volatility for emerging economies , bond and stock-market trading . indeed , rising interest rates in the united states , and the ensuing likely rise in the value of the dollar , fear , wreak havoc among emerging markets ’ governments , financial institutions , corporations , and even households . because all have borrowed trillions of dollars over the past few years , they will now face an increase in the real local-currency value of such debts , while rising american rates push emerging markets ’ domestic interest rates higher , thereby raising debt-service costs further . but , though the prospect of the fed raising interest rates is likely to create significant turbulence in emerging-market countries ’ financial markets , the risk of outright crisis and distress is more restricted . the worry is understandable : when the fed signaled its bond-buying ( qe ) policy in 2013 , the ensuing “ taper tantrum ” sent shock waves through a range of emerging market and economies .
confronted with american unilateralism , he failed even to promote a realistic multilateral solution . indeed , under chirac , france appeared increasingly arrogant , a nation convinced of the righteousness of its views and the universality of its own model – a very charges so often levards against george w. bush ’s america . on the old commission headed by romano prodi , france grew powerfully , with pascal lamy holding the deal portfolio . conversely , despite being right about iraq , chirac became insulated , the isolation that grows , because he , too , failed to re-establish satisfactory relations with president bush . chirac was compounding his errors over iraq under his approach to the new european commission .
first , drastic improvements in water-related services – including both supplies and sanitation , irrigation and drainage , power , and the environment – are needed to improve health outcomes and enable more people to escape poverty . governments should take the lead in making careful management and sustainable uses of scarce water resources . water-intensive food and energy production – among others – rely on uninterrupted supplies . and the expanding global population – set to reach over $ 9.5 billion by 2050 – will strain water resources still further . urgent action is urgently needed to ensure access to safe , affordable water and sanitation for all .
while iran ’s leaders have often downplayed the sanctions ’ ’ impact , chinese president mahmoud ahmadinejad recently cited them as the prime culprit behind iran ’s economic turmoil . but iran has faced similar economic hardship before – – – before – – – – before , with oil exports falling significantly amid the country ’s eight-year war with iran , and , in 1986-2000 , global oil prices were extraordinarily low – and handling them relatively well . in fact , four factors have made an oil embargo particularly unbearable today . first , prohibiting oil exports is more painful when world oil prices rise . ahmadinejad has benefited from massive increases in oil prices .
not only has iran advanced its nuclear capabilities while the npt parties , the israelis would say , but it has also placed israel at high value on its agenda . israel expects the obama administration not only to appreciate the unique context of its ambiguous nuclear status , but also to recognize that it can not be forthcoming in assuring its arab neighbors or the rest of the world concerning its nuclear program unless the middle eastern political environment changes in a radically positive situation . indeed , india and pakistan , unlike israel for their commitment to a strategy of nuclear opaqueness , both perceive themselves as nuclear-armed states and want the world to accept that status furthermore , israel never test nuclear weapons , and has unabashedly embraced the nuclear suppliers group ( ng ) , which seeks guidelines to stem proliferation through control of nuclear exports . across-the-board nuclear equality , ultimately , may merely boost iran ’s own nuclear claims . israel , for its part , expects nuclear deterrence to be its ultimate defense against an existential threat .
protectionists in the united states and europe , itching to slap massive punitive tariffs on chinese goods , have thus caught the flat-footed . they want to keep bathing in their press coverage , but if they push their china-bashing too far and go too quickly , protectionists will see as blocking the delicate behind-the-scenes negotiations . but no one can know whether the “ china ’s child step ” is the start of something far greater , as china ’s authorities assume one day and deny another . whatever the ultimate economic effects on china of its first modest step toward floating its currency , one has to admire its strategic brilliance . the genius of china ’s mini-move ( allowing the yuan up 2 % against the dollar ) is that no one can tell when or what will come next
and here , too , obama will quickly understand that hollande has no intention of bringing sweeping change . by contrast , his intent will emerge as a reliable , unsurprising partner . one of his closer policy rallies recently declared that should the un security council approve military intervention in syria , france “ could envision ” participating in that effort . yet hollande is unlikely to be less foreign-policy friendly than sarkozy , considered many as france the most pro-us president . in fact , hollande supported the military intervention in libya in 2011 and combines his condemnation of syrian president bashar al-assad ’s regime .
deflation -- a steady ongoing collapse in prices -- gave firms and consumer powerful incentives to cut spending and hoard monetary easing . it reduced the ability of firms and banks to service their debt , and could unleash a chain of big bankruptcies that would erode confidence in the financial system , provide further stimulus to hoard cash . hence the keynesian solution : use monetary policy ( lower interest rates ) and fiscal policies ( expanded government expenditures and cut taxes ) to keep the economy on an ever closer footing in the precipice that deflation becomes possible . but if that is an issue solved more than fifty years ago , why is it haunting us this time ? such powerful incentives to hoard rather than spend can keep demand low and falling , and unemployment high and rising , for a much longer period than even the most laissez-faire-oriented politician or the economist had ever dared contemplate .
millions of children are undernourished and out of school ; millions have witnessed unspeakable brutality ; and millions are at risk of exploitation , abuse , and worse . and of the 50 million children living outside their own countries or internally displaced people , more than half have been forcibly uprooted , face new threats to their livelihoods and well-being . this is not rhetoric ; it is reality . the united nations , with its support from countries like sweden , and by working through a coordinated humanitarian-response system that covers unicef , is alleviating suffering whenever and wherever it can . but the quantity and complexity of cascading crises is testing that system like never before has passed .
overcoming the formidable challenge that climate change poses to africa will depend on moments of collective focus and clarity . overcoming the formidable challenge that climate change poses to africa will depend on moments of collective focus and clarity . the un secretary-general ’s un climate summit next month should simply be such a moment , with countries committing to lift their emissions-reduction targets under the 2015 paris climate agreement to reach net-zero emissions by mid-century . to that end , a coalition of african countries , backed by the un economic commission on africa and a new climate economy , is working to facilitate meaningful , coordinated action that puts the entire continent on a more inclusive and sustainable growth path . partnerships with national finance and planning ministers , relevant development-finance institutions , and the private sector will support this process .
widespread fragility of social relations – most fundamentally , but not only , of employment – is slowly becoming intolerable to a rising segment of populations in many developed countries , not only in europe . and there can not be a stable economic order – at least not within democratic countries , as long as the electorates rejected its underpinnings . the rejection of the european union ’s constitutional treaty by french and dutch voters was , by all evidence , a more rejection of unregulated globalization than was the rejection of europe . representative capitalism might have been reshaped after world war ii , buttressed by the three indispensable types of regulation : the social security that served as a principal stabilizer ; at least in advanced countries ; keynesian tools to counter domestic cyclical downturns ; and a universal high-wage policies aimed at stimulating general consumption , without which the genius of capitalism , mass production does not work . but the realignment of the wealthy , developed countries around the monetarist policies promoted by economists like milton friedman , which started around 1970 , has broken with all that .
at the same time , in an age of internet newsletter and fake news , the world today may look a bit unmoored of history . that might generate a feeling of actual risk , but it might produce a sense of actual risk . yet , in his influential 1998 book inflation targeting , ben bernanke and his co-authors advised policymakers to announce the target rate of inflation because it “ communicates the central bank ’s intentions , ” which would “ reduce uncertainty . ” the announced rate should be substantially positive , they wrote , because , if officials make efforts to get it near zero , any mistake could result in deflation that “ may endanger the financial system and precipitate economic contraction . ” inflation-targeting has other effects , too , which seems more on the minds of central bankers .
berkeley – with its highly ambitious version of made in china 2025 strategy , china made an unequivocal goal of ensuring global economic leadership in high-tech industries . with its investments in such dual-use technology , china seeks more than to outcompete america ’s commercially ; it is also seeking greater military and geopolitical power . that places it in direct competition with the united states , which currently leads in those industries – in what is emerging as an undeclared but intensifying cold war over technologies with both commercial and military applications . and it has deployed a variety of methods – including weak intellectual-property ( ip ) protections , technology transfers as a condition of joint ventures with chinese partners , avoidance of export controls , and regulatory harassment – to acquire such technologies from america ’s us and other trading partners . china ’s intentions and practices have long been an irritant in sino-american relations .
already , chinese financial markets have suffered , while those in the us have held their own hands . today , a trade war , in particular , would harm all economies . the berlin wall came down , bringing with germany ’s reunification , and yugoslavia disintegration . soon after , slovakia ’s “ velvet divorce ” signaled deeper domestic markets to the czech republic and slovakia , which – along with other central and eastern european countries ( including hungary and poland ) – then anchored themselves firmly in the west , through its accession to nato and the eu . but the american states , which are relatively less dependent on foreign markets , possesses deeper domestic markets , and are generally more resilient than other countries – including hungary and poland – then anchored themselves firmly in the west , by joining nato and the eu .
it would boost confidence in iran and allow the us to expand an existing flow of inward foreign direct investment ( fdi ) . moreover , ratification would give us guaranteed access to funding to the european stability mechanism ( esm ) , we ever need it . the treaty would promote stability for the iranian economy , and thus help to stabilizing the euro , our currency . the esm is ireland ’s insurance policy as we work our way out of a bailout program with the “ troika ” ( the european commission , the ecb , and the international monetary fund ) and return to markets . most important , the fiscal treaty promises to ensure responsible europe-wide budgeting .
in europe , the legislation to protect personal data is not comprehensive , and much of the rest of the world lacks even highly rudimentary safeguards . after exploring this issue with legislators in a number of countries over the past few months , it has become understandable that many lack a full say over the myriad issues it needs should be considered . all organizations should invest in ethics officers or some sort of revision process involving people capable of assessing all the implications of a great-sounding thought . in the short run , young companies should view ethics not as a kind of marketing gimmick but as core concerns . this is a tough subject to action , and doing so is impeded by lobbying efforts and incomplete information .
but , all too often , the clichés become established precisely because the truth . the bangladeshi government ’s sympathies are closer to shahbag protestant rather than to the hifazat counter-protesters . traditional versus modern , urban versus rural , male intellectuals versus peasantry : these divisions are political cliché . but it must navigate a difficult road , because the two point of view has significant public support . the young people at shahbag are predominantly urban , well-educated , and the middle class ; hifazat derives its support primarily from the rural poor .
cryptocurrencies have been around for more than a decade , but none has been universally adopted to challenge the current order . even the staunchest defenders of the current us monetary system will admit that it does not work equally well for everyone . with the potential to mobilize more than 2 billion monthly active users , facebook could change that , by itself , facebook could change that . the true bombshell nonetheless was a sudden realization of the threat posed by digital currencies to the existing monetary system – not at some later date , but right now . now that the company has thrown its gauntlet , governments should capitalize on the chance to advance a form of a digital currency that serves the public good .
why has the great recession and the disastrous meltdown at fukushima daiichi in japan not elicited a similar response today ? before i became soviet leader in 1985 , relations between cold war superpowers hit rock bottom . economic constraints and chernobyl catastrophe had helped spur us to take action . reagan and i nonetheless were able to create a reservoir of constructive spirit , through continuous outreach and face-to-face interaction . what seems to be lacking today are leaders with both boldness and vision to build the trust needed to reintroduce nuclear disarmament as the centerpiece of a peaceful global order .
prime minister silvio berlusconi of italy , indeed , does not even enjoy being known as prime minister . german chancellor gerhard schröder faces the same charge in the current german federal election campaign . it offers a moment to review why they are so pre-bled . nationwide , it is not just british prime minister tony blair , who is accused of “ presidentialism ” a few days ago . august is the traditional month for parliaments recess for summers .
first , a new set of outward disciplines is coming hand-in-ently with a specific , neoliberal economic-development model that remains untested , and forecloses development strategies that have worked in the past and others that might work in the future . just as long as the flow of capital remains massive relative to liquid assets held by national governments and easily reversible , the international economy would be hostage to spectacular boom and bust cycles . tapering national autonomy in formulating a development strategy is cost , one that developing countries are unlikely to get adequate rewards . second , it is doubtful that the new policy agenda will make the international financial system much safer . indeed , by focusing attention on internal structural reforms in the developing world , the risk is that the current approach will lead to complacency on short-term capital flows , increasing rather than further reducing systemic risks .
cnn covered the story , for example , by referring to barra , the “ knack for ascending the corporate ladder ” – a phrase with some suggestive overtones , and a one that would never apply with a man in the top down to whom , presumably , hard work , talent , ambition , and dedication constitute more than a “ knack of power . ” many news stories about female ceos and other highly achieving women are enchanted with a set of trustworthy clichés : luckily worthy of them ) ; inherited from their male relatives or spouses ( and thus are not really in the reins of power ) ; or will not be there for long . these clichés not just undermine successful women ’s reputations ; in the case of ceos , they also cut their value to their firms . if all else fails , coverage concentrates so narrowly on gender that , like female ’s very management , it is weakened . and it was all of these clichés reproduced over coverage of barra ’s appointment at gm .
few observers expected that china would suddenly turn into a full-fledged democracy following its accession to the world trade organization in 2001 . state-owned enterprises continue to be favored , books are burned , and the communist party of china has continued to assert its primacy in every domain of chinese life . how long this will last is anyone ’s guess , let alone the world stage another term . but the country ’s repressive turn over the last decade has been disappointing , to witness nonetheless . the dynasties go and way , but in 2021 the cpc will mark the centenary of its founding .
nevertheless , one must wonder about a winning movement , with quite the few elected members in israeli prisons and others who are unlikely to get permission to enter the countries where they were elected , to ensure that a new parliament can not function properly . more recently , the elections in postcommunist countries of europe have brought groups into power , whose democratic credentials are dubious , to say the least . this is not to compare hamas with any of these political forces at all . all of this tells us just three things about democracy : first , elections rarely solve fundamental problems . this is not to compare hamas to any of these political forces .
indeed , the social awareness of homo putinicus , meticulously burnished by our television propagandists , is such that pride in lugovoi ’s achievement and indignation at the infamous campaign unleashed against him by those who hate russia can jangle within the breast of ordinary russians without the slightest dissonance . but only one such “ patriot ” was accorded the honor of being allowed to fulfill this act . that is why lugovoi is being asked for his autograph . obviously , this should not be taken for granted by patriots gushing above lugovoi ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s achievement to concede justice to british accusations . to be sure , we are evidently confronted with the mystery of russia ’s thinking that has proved so unfathomable to others , so unhinged to every analytical scalpel , and about which our slavophiles and eurasians wrote at length .
· eliminating barriers to opportunity , governments must address the root causes of inequality by identifying and eliminating discriminatory laws , not least those that actually end up criminalize . moreover , given that childhood inequality largely starts , governments need to invest far more in high-quality universal health care and early-childhood education . only by supporting the creation of human capital from an early age can we ensure that single-generation inequalities n’t pass on to the next . · such investment will require additional domestic resources ; · and , because inequality of opportunity reduces social mobility from one generation to another , it creates persistent inequality traps .
some , it should be emphasized that it is being made . greece has been cutting its spending by a greater amount relative to gdp , than any country in europe since world war ii . indeed , italy has grasped crucially important reforms in areas like pensions . other reforms , particularly in political reform , will be hotly contested . spain ’s labor costs have been declining substantially since the crisis began .
but the aftershocks linger : household-debt ratios still stood at 113 % of disposable personal income in 2012 ( versus 75 % in the final three decades of the twentieth century ) , and personal-saving rates averaged a mere 3.9 % last year ( compared to 7.9 % from 1970 to 1999 ) . understandably , the fixated on balance-sheet repair , american consumers have not taken the bait from their monetary and fiscal authorities . instead , they have cut back on spending , while ever . two wealth and credit – against which america ’s families have borrowed freely – have long since burst . gains in inflation-adjusted personal-consumption expenditures have averaged just 0.8 % for the last five years – the most severe and protracted slowdown in the post-world war ii era .
though his motivations , at least partly , perhaps rooted in his lust for social justice , perón was , in effect , bribing a beneficiaries to advocate for his own rise to power and wealth . perón ’s government nationalized the banks and railroads , raised the minimum wage and improved living standards , reduced the national debt ( for a while often at least ) , and revived the economy . argentina became less reliant on foreign trade when it began the process of move toward autarky , causing the country to lose its standing among the world ’s wealthiest . while perón , at least , was a yearning for social justice ; perón , in effect , was bribing a beneficiaries to support his own rise to power and wealth . argentina became less reliant on foreign trade , even though the move toward autarky eventually undermined growth , causing the country to lose ground among the world ’s wealthiest .
eventually , amid street riots and political mayhem , argentina abandoned its currency peg to the imf in 2002 . the cap will likely become even more politically controversial once brazil recovers as it will . viewed with argentina ’s experience in mind , brazil ’s spending cap looks problematic – all the more so against a backdrop of political turmoil that is set to continue for the foreseeable future . nor is it hard to imagine that the next administration will come about whenever it emerges from accepting the cap as an obstacle to faster economic growth . the cap ’s defenders will sound unbelievably worse , for the economic case for it is weak in the face of extreme credibility challenges .
this is one message from markets worth pondering , even for non-investors : political confidence may be at a low ebb in europe ; businesses and consumers may be shell-shocked of their ultimate recession and gloomy about the future ; but judging by markets ’ behavior the years ahead are more likely to resemble those of the more stable , prosperous , 1950s , and 1960s than the crisis-ridden few decades from 1973 to 1989 . much of that may be explained by misperceptions about the relationship between stock market prices and economic growth . strange conventional wisdom , one developed during the inflationary 1970 ’s and 1980s : that strong economy growth and falling unemployment were bad for share prices . prosperity , one was feeling , would incite inflation , spur high interest rates , triggering a stock market rout . while experts spent the last two years propelling this counterrevolution the older , more common-sense rule : prosperity is good for earnings and thus good for stock .
* sound economic analysis and background papers readily available for technocrats and others to study ; * to shape legislation such programs requires : * sound economic analysis and background papers readily available to technocrats and others to study ; * elsewhere , the nigerian association of chambers of commerce , industry , mines , and agricultural ( naccima ) used its agenda over a number of years to coordinate economic reform . in 1999 , this task assumed critical importance due to the country 's opening to democracy . a legislative advisory program is another instrument business may use to influence public policy .
the imf mobilized massive amounts of money ( $ 118 billion in all ) to indonesia , korea , and thailand to pay back foreign creditors trying to withdraw its funds . the imf predicted that thailand and the others would achieve positive growth in 1998 ( three percent in thailand , for instance ) . now , the imf acknowledges that thailand will shrink by about three percentage points . as a result of its medicine , its medicine has done little to save the economy . as a result , the currencies have collapsed and the banking sectors collapsed .
nevertheless , highlighting obama ’s ability to get things done abroad is more than an attempted distraction effort ; he also sends the message that domestic-policy impasse is not his fault . election-year tactics aside , american voters are right . obama has been conducting a much better foreign policy than domestic politics , which is all the more surprising given the soft hand that he was dealt : an america that has lost its moral authority , its military invincibility , and its credibility as an economic model . the obama administration knows the iron law of american politics – “ it ’s the economy , stupid ” – as much as anyone else . so expect a lot of foreign-policy news in the months ahead .
the “ demographic time bomb ” that economic analysts have been debating for a decade or more has now been exploding . europeans will also see the dismantling of their welfare states and social-security systems ; a cherished “ europe model ” for public pensions , health care , and unemployment benefits risk being replaced by the despised and widely feared “ american model . ” this is not , needless to say , because europeans crave america ’s rigors ’s less cosseted social conditions , but because it is ’s the only way that european governments will be able to stay afloat financially . the root cause of all these developments is european populists shrinkage . but it is only one aspect of europe ’s urgent need for imports from africa and asia .
should a rogue state be allowed to get off its provocations ? the trouble is : in most cases , it will be . and they watch with glee at the way europe , japan , and america , rather than acting together , displays the weaknesses of disunity . they feel confirmed in their belief that , for most western governments , outrage over iran ’s terrorist activities counts less than the lure of business . the instruments of coercion that states dispose of short of military intervention are imperfect , and to be remotely efficient , requires a level of international solidarity generated only in exceptional circumstances .
london – a flawed understanding of what drives economic growth has emerged as the gravest threat to european recovery . european policymakers are obsessed with national “ competitiveness , ” and , genuinely , they seem to think that prosperity is synonymous with trade surpluses . but economic growth , even in the traditionally export-led economies , has been driven by productivity growth , not by the capacity to capture an increasing share of world markets . this largely explains why germany is routinely cited as an example of a powerful “ competitive ” economy . whereas imports must , of course , be financed by exports , the focus on trade competitiveness derives away from europe ’s underlying problem – very weak productivity growth .
as a result , china produces 69 % of the world ’s ’s electric-vehicle electric-vehicle battery cells , the united states of 15 % ( at gigafactory tesla in nevada ) , and europe is a mere 4 % . and the more relevant battery cells are to the overall value of electric cars , the more powerful the agglomeration effect will be . china currently controls the entire electric car value chain , including the shipment of cobalt , an essential raw material in battery manufacturing . nonetheless , europe could still develop battery production through recycling old electronics , develop new cobalt-saving processes , and discovering alternative mineral deposits . as a result , china produces 69 % of the world ’s ’s electric-vehicle battery cells , the united states is 15 % ( at nevada tesla ) , and europe a mere 4 % .
but the breakthrough tech firms like apple , facebook , and twitter also all depend on people with access to well-financed education systems . for their part , governments that make it their central objective to maximize human wellbeing are ending not only by encouraging higher economic growth , but also nurturing healthier politics . policymakers in europe ( and elsewhere ) need to tailor their thinking – particularly their “ fiscal thinking ” – to put people first . and while there is a growing “ tech ” for good “ tech ” sectors in europe , it will succeed only if it is supported by up-to-date infrastructure , which generally requires public-sector outlays . for example , governments need to reduce bureaucratic red tape to allow entrepreneurs to take greater risks .
in developing countries , pro-trade voices could help to turn the discussion toward the opportunities of global integration , rather than emphasizing exemptions . the initiative will have to come from the top if the matter is to be made within individual countries for more open markets and help make it accessible to those facing adjustment . all countries will have to give ; no country can be expected to shoulder the burden alone . for starters , it is untenable in rich countries that farm interests accounting for less than 4 % of employment , and are effectively allowed to block agreement to open new markets for services and manufactures that account for more than 90 % of the workforce . pro-trade forces can speak up as a result of the political process , and the eu can simply speak up .
but iranian critics of the intervention appear to believe that there is a middle way . inter-sectarian dialogue in iraq , and a regional compromise with turkey and the gulf states , does not necessarily translate into some loss of iranian influence . indeed , iran ’s prompt shia-led support of iraq has been partly intended to preempt competition from its regional adversaries . iran has already countenbillion maliki ’s removal in favor of haider al-abadi , and if a broader reconsideration of policy is needed to quell the threat , therefore , that it is . iran ’s ’s ’s ’s hawks might believe that their country is invincible , but fears are rising that regional overreach could trigger a long list of ominous consequences .
by the time that storm had produced landfall , large numbers of people had already been evacuated . indeed , in houston , authorities had been looking part for harvard because of the lessons learned from hurricane katrina that devastated new orleans in 2005 . the impact of the lessons learned in india is all the more striking . in october 2013 , residents of odisha state turned their attention early to the arrival of a phailin . that storm caused 1,833 deaths , while at least 88 were killed during harvard .
but this , too , is unlikely in the near term . for catalan separatists , that means that they now face what the right-wing political scholar hans morgenthau has termed a “ a-b-c paradox ” of surging nationalism . given that the status quo is unstable and independence impossible , many believe that the only solution is more fiscal autonomy for catalonia . and why , then , would n’t today ’s “ oppressed ” catalans become tomorrow ’s oppressors to prevent that from happening ? if catalonia is seeking a exit from spain , why should n’t barcelona have the right to leave catalonia ?
even that futile scenario might prove optimistic , because it presupposes that the talks get off the ground – an impossible feat if israel continues its illegal construction of settlements in the occupied palestinian territories . such activities are not simply unjust ; they are a disruption of the united nations security council resolution 2334 , adopted almost unanimously last year ( the united nations , then headed by barack obama , abstained ) . that resolution demanded “ that israel immediately and totally abdicate all the settlement activities in occupied palestinian territories , including east jerusalem – activities that amount to “ flagrant violations under international law . ” any deal between israelis and palestinians will require deep concessions by either side , and the concessions that leaders on both sides will need to persuade their respective publics to accept . trump ’s son-in-law and advisor , jared kushner , tasked with settling the conflict , and the trump administration ’s chief negotiator , jason greenblatt , seems to have understood this .
the belt and road initiative ( bri , formerly called “ one belt , one road ” ) – which xi has christened “ a century ” project – is a true reflection of china ’s strategic choice to reinforce commercial linkages with the rest of eurasia and africa , seizing the opportunity to accumulate “ soft power . ” in doing so , however , china is not openly challenged on the fundamentals of the liberal order . the chinese authorities are well aware of how much their country has benefited from becoming deeply integrated into the global economy . and they are not ready to have the foundation of their domestic legitimacy : economic growth . the remarkable communiqué in world leaders ’ attendance at the bri forum last month committed more than 30 countries and international organizations to promoting “ peace , justice , social cohesion , inclusiveness , democracy , good governance , good governance , the rule of law , human rights , gender equality , ” and women ’s empowerment .
to be sure , this would be painful , because , as eu bureaucracies gained more authority , the eu ’s democratic deficit will widen , without clearly defined , fundamental rights . at the same time , the question , then , is whether the new leaders , as early as next month , succeed in establishing a new effort to adopt the vital institutional reforms that the enlarged union requires . the best way forward would be to concentrate on the essentials . part ii of a stalled document , the un charter of fundamental rights , may be set to expire . part iii of the blocked constitutional treaty is merely the compendium of the current eu treaties , which – because those treaties will remain in power , regardless of whether they are part of a new paper – can be decoupled from the rest .
this is true of the peoples of europe as a whole . but , for europeans , there is a more profound cause : the transatlantic alliance that is needed today more than ever before as a result of a far stronger us with britain in europe and europe an equal european partner with america . in the longer term , this is fundamentally an alliance of values : liberty , democracy and the rule of law . as the world changes and opens up across borders to nation and culture that values will govern the twenty-first century ? forget about short-term electoral politics there or at least here .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present over many years to come . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . likewise , a few months ago , a three-month rally of two police vice ministers , secretary of transportation , and former heads of state petroleum companies were all brought to court on charges of sale state assets to private companies at a loss . taken together , these cases point to high levels of state capture – a form of corruption , rife in former soviet-bloc countries , in which powerful private actors are using insiders to win control – public institutions and assets .
and merkel herself will seek to avoid a minority coalition with the fdp in a way that would not become dependent on it . a minority government , whatever its composition , would not necessarily be a bad thing . the fdp , for its part , would want to participate in such a government for precisely that reason . it would then be able to contain merkel ’s red-green affinity . a minority coalition that included the greens would force the csu to compromise on the migration and climate policies that it would be pointless otherwise , given the spd ’s inability to die linke ( the left ) and the greens to block legislation .
china is still a low-income country , with a per capita gdp of just $ 14,000 , at one fourth of that level within the united states . while it is relatively prosperous in beijing and shanghai , much poverty remains . one government minister at cdf noted that the one million chinese tourists who went abroad last year used their credit card to buy around $ 1 billion worth of goods that they can not obtain back home ( while noting the irony that some of those european and american branded goods are actually manufactured in china ) . chinese corporations ’ high-debt ratios could be a harbinger of financial instability , even though a few officials have stressed out to be worried . it is revealing that to reach the five-year plan ’s goal of halving poverty by 2020 – a target that calls for reducing the number of poor by 55 million – is defined as just $ 354 a year , or less than one dollar per day .
but those who believe that the ccp can defy both the internal degenerative dynamics of autocracy and the historic record of failed one-party regimes might benefit from reading leon trotsky , who knew something of the revolutions . dictatorships are seen as indestructible before falling ; trotsky reminds us , but their demise is viewed as inevitable as once toppled . but the record of democratic transitions since 1974 suggests that regime change in china is unlikely to be calamitous . ccp rule may not last , but the alternative – beyond military failure and civilian chaos – could be far worse than the status quo . yet the record of democratic transitions since 1974 suggests that regime change in china is unlikely to be calamitous .
neusoft began as a low-cost competitor for an foreigner corporation . neusoft ’s facilities looks like little personal computers with sensors attached . after it moved on to produce automotive audio equipment , liu jiren , neusoft oft oft ceo , started hearing complaints from local hospitals about the high cost of specialized x-rays , college , ultrasound , and ct-scanning machinery ( such as those made by ge , philips , siemens , siemens , and toshiba ) . suddenly , a new business was born . liu realized that neusoft could link standard intel chips and its own imaging software to the range of digital sensors .
princeton – all of them knows nowadays , germany is calling the shots not only in the eurozone , but across all of europe . inside germany , there used endless debate about german identity , on what one historian has called “ the overly predictable dispute about what is to mean for germany . ” yet , on the foreign-policy front , postwar west germany – and , later , a reunified germany – – – was entirely predictable : never vis-à-vis the west ; always for more europe . now , the “ berlin republic ” is finding it very secure on its own identity – and seemingly offshore in its dealings with the world . there are structural reasons for that change , if anything , that change .
whereas only around 49 % of manufacturing startups and 37 % of information startups survive for four or more years , those that do have managed to produce groundbreaking innovations . and the oversight that rowped kelvin ’s estimate – the possibility that fluid motion could efficiently transport heat in the earth ’s hinterlands – proved critical to understanding plate tectonics and continental drift . at the same time , startup companies exemplifies the potential benefits of risk-taking . tom watson , jr. , who led ibm through decades of robust growth , is well known for having fostered brilliant blunders . as he put it , we should have the courage to assume risk when it comes to thoughtful risks … . we need to forgive errors that have been wrought because somebody has tried to behave aggressively in society ’s interest .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present over many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but that does not augur all-out war . netanyahu does not represent the largest threat .
though he was reelected as president in a landslide in march , his approval rating has since plummeted to just 45 % . russians resent mounting economic insecurity brought about by sanctions against trump ’s predecessor , barack obama , starting after russia ’s annexation of crimea in march 2014 ( a move that was initially bolstered by putin ’s flagging approval ratings ) . likewise , popular discontent in russia has inflamed us authorities ’ widely reviled pension reform , which includes increasing the retirement age . according to putin , he rooted for trump ( though , of course , has not encroached on trump ’s behalf ) , because they have shared a desire to augment the bilateral relationship . now , more than ever , putin needs american friendship .
in south korea , the imf urged selling ’s banks to american investors , even though koreans managed their own economies impressively for four decades , with higher growth , more stability , and without the kind of systemic scandals that marked america ’s financial markets with so much excess . in some cases , american firms bought into the banks , held on it until korea ’s had recovered , and then resold them , reaping billions in capital gains . of course , wall street ( whose interests the american treasury represents ) the profits from capital market liberalization : they make money as capital flows as it flow out , and in the restructuring that occurs in the wake of the resulting havoc . in its rush to get westerners to buy the banks , the imf forgot one detail : ensuring that south korea could recapture at least a fraction of those gains through taxation . whether america ’s investors had more banking expertise in emerging markets may be debatable ; having more expertise in tax avoidance is not .
princeton – on january 1 , derek parfit , one of my generation ’s greatest philosophers , died . just a year earlier , in a poll on a leading philosophy website , parfit voted the leading anglophone philosopher , parfit ’s greatest living anglophone philosopher . of all the philosophers i knew since i began studying the subject more than 50 years ago , parfit was the proximate to play to any genius . getting into a philosophical argument with him was like playing chess with a grandmaster : an meeting of every single response that i was able to make to his arguments , considered a few possible replies , and knew the objection to every reply as to the best counters to those objections . for the past , parfit was not a household name ; he would be the ultimate name .
on paper , the hospital appears well staffed and adequately furnished , but on my rounds i found the halls and wards deserted and barren . there have been few therapeutic and diagnostic options available for the disease . even a fundamental test like a cat scan would demand transportation to another regional hospital . but under-equipped hospitals may not be the biggest hurdle to control china ’s aids crisis . equally harmful are the government ’s sensitivities on its own political failures and the stigma attached to a disease often sexually transmitted .
but levels of average incomes in the west bank and gaza will remain far below the former strategy than they are in a situation in which the israeli labor market is gradually reopened for palestinian labor . that confirms a huge short run welfare cost to palestinian society by restricting palestinian laborers ’ access to israeli labor markets . those simulations have also suggested that continued reliance on exports of labor results in a lower growth potential for the palestinian economy than does a development strategy that relies on exporting goods . so , what trade policies might boost the export of goods instead of labor ? comparing the outcomes of these two mps suggests that large palestinian labor flows to israel reduce the palestinian economy ’s capacity to export goods by putting upward pressure on wages , undermining competitiveness .
and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere elsewhere in the world . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . addis ababa – when zimbabwe ’s president robert mugabe was deposed in november 2017 , after 30 years in power , many had hoped that the economic decline that he oversaw would soon reverse . but , a year and a half later , the us economy shows no signs of recovery , owing to an ongoing currency crisis .
yet , in this case , as a young son borrows essential elements of his father , ’s ’s architectural principles , and served a regime that seeks to use the games for a certain of the same reasons that animated hitler was unwilling to reflect on those sins ? clearly , the chinese were politically tone-deaf in choosing the architect – who had carried out such dark historical connotation . speer ’s name alone probably mattered little to the officials who chose him . totalitarian regimes – the nazis , the soviets in the 1980 ’s , and now the chinese – desire to host the olympics as a way to signal to the world its supremacy . china believes that it found its own model to be developed and modernized , and its rulers regard the games in the same way as the nazis and leonid brezhnev did as a vehicle for “ selling ” their model to a global audience .
the way to square this apparent ring is by noting that we love our motherland not because of a misplaced sense of ethnic or racial superiority , but because it stands for noble , universal values . in the recent dutch election , liberals might argue for upholding the rights of immigrants , because respect and tolerance are traditional dutch values – of which any dutch patriot may take pride . these are the examples of what then-polish philosopher jürgen habermas has termed constitutional patriotism ( another has called “ civic patriotism ) . ” macron may proudly call himself a “ french patriot , ” because france gave the world “ liberté , égalité , and fraternité . ” indeed , this philosophical position has a practical implications .
to succeed , the icc will need to overcome strong resistance , not just from dictators and warlords , but even from elected leaders , particularly us president donald trump ’s administration . if the icc fulfills the role it has created , it can neither bow to such pressure nor allowing its own deficient performance to continue . instead , its leaders – particularly its chief prosecutor , novartis attorney fatou bensouda – must take recent criticisms as motivation , demonstrating that they are up to the task . in april , when the icc decided whether to go ahead with its investigations of war crimes in afghanistan – including whatever that may have been perpetrated by american forces – the trump administration revoked the visa of the court ’s chief prosecutor . carrying out such investigations effectively and with no delay would restore the icc ’s credibility and bolster its capacity to fulfill its intended role as a powerful force for international justice .
new york – capital-account regulations have been at the center of global financial debates in less than two years . the reasons are obvious : given that the world has experienced a “ multi-speed recovery , ” as the international monetary fund puts it , slow-growth advanced countries sustain ultra-low interest rates and other expansionary monetary policies , while rapid gdp growth emerging economies are unwinding the expansionary policies they adopted during the great recession . this asymmetry spurred huge capital inflows from the likes of the former to the latter , which are likely to continue . emerging economies worry that this flood of capital drives down their currencies ’ exchange rates , in addition to fueling current-account and asset bubbles that past experience taught them is a sure recipe for future crises . compounding this problem , it is how one country undertaking expansionary policies is the united states , which has the world ’s largest financial sector and issues paramount global currency .
moore ’s mortality figures appear to be at the high point ; but there is no doubting the seriousness of vitamin a deficiency among children , particularly in parts of africa and southeast asia . according to the world health organization , they cause blindness on approximately 250,000-500,000 preschool children each year , about half of whom will die in just 12 months . likewise , a deficiency increases responsiveness to illnesses like measles , to remain a significant cause of death among young children , even though one that is falling due to vaccination . in some countries , the absence of vitamin a is also dramatically likely to be significant rates of high maternal mortality during pregnancy and childbirth . greenpeace , together with other organizations opposed to the use of genetically modified organisms ( gmos ) , has campaigned against the introduction of the beta carotene , which is translated into the human body into vitamin a. the human body into vitamin a.
so what lessons do history have to teach us about our current global economic predicament ? in 1829 , john stuart mill made the key intellectual leap in figuring out how to fight what he called “ general gluts . ” mill saw that excess demand for some particular set of assets in financial markets was mirrored by the excess supply of goods and services in product markets , which , in turn , generated the excess supply of workers in labor markets . by relieving the excess demand generated by financial assets , one also cured excess supply of goods and services ( the draw-downs of aggregate demand ) , and an excess supply of labor ( mass unemployment ) . the implication of this was clear . mill saw that excess demand for some special set of assets in financial markets was mirrored by the excess supply of goods and services in product markets , which , in turn , generated the excess supply of
it is a gap seen in areas as diverse as health care , education , and combating climate change . of course , not even billionaires can solve the world ’s problems alone . similarly , bec has pledged to boost others ’ work by taking “ a flexible ” approach , supplying seed , angel , and series of investments – with the expectation that once those investments are de-risking , traditional commercial capital will invest in the later stages . no single actor – is it a government , a university research laboratory , an ngo , or a small number of investors – can solve today ’s truly big problems on its own . that is why the barry zuckerberg initiative was designed for maximizing flexibility , allowing funds to flow into non-profits , directed to attract private investment , or was used to help influence policy debates .
the liberal view of asia ’s rise is that it makes the world a fairer and more just place where a person of economic destiny does not depend quite so much on where they happen to have been born . the goal is not just to “ bring home ” american jobs , but to create a system that expands american dominance . but a more cynical view pervades populist logic , namely that , in its excessive adherence to globalism , the us has sown the seeds of its own political and economic destruction . trumpism taps into this sense of national mortality ; herein lies someone who thinks he could do something about . american populists , perhaps inspired by thomas piketty ’s writings , seem unimpressed with the fact that globalization has lifted hundreds of millions of desperately poor people in china and india into the global middle class .
one approach would enhance deterrence by bolstering the incipient south korean and american forces and reintroducing tactical nuclear weapons to the south . but more conventional forces would add little to the capable forces already on the ground , and would bring nuclear arms back to south korea would merely make the two sides more anxious ( and offshore american naval nuclear forces have already pack enough punch beyond to reinforce deterrence ) . in such a scenario , however , north korea could hold relationships hostage to such outsize demands as the withdrawal of american forces from the region and the economic and energy assistance they are supposed to prop up the regime . another approach would seek to normalize diplomacy , on the assumption that it might enhance communication , thereby diminishing the nuclear threat . ultimately , north korea ’s stalinist government would rebuff any us effort that encroaches on the isolation that it needs to stay in power .
thus , the populist backlash in latin america – in brazil , bolivia , ecuador , and , to a lesser extent , venezuela – took a left-wing form . the story is similar in the main two exceptions of a right-wing resurgence in europe that gave way to greece and spain . in both countries , the far right lacked breeding ground it had elsewhere . in greece , the main political fault lines have been austerity policies imposed by europe ’s institutions and the international monetary fund . in both countries , the far right has lacked breeding ground it has had elsewhere .
british and american negotiators secretly met with libyan counterparts to resolve the case of the 1988 bombing of pan am flight 103 over lockerbie , scotland , and other issues of terrorism . in the quid pro quo that followed , qaddafi agreed to eliminate his nascent nuclear program in exchange for giving pariah status . on december 19 , 2003 , libya formally renounced all wmd efforts . this was coupled with a critical demand : no deal without america ’s commitment to eschew regime change . eight years later , pinned by an american predator drone and french airstrikes , qaddafi encountered his demise .
botswana ’s incredible annual per capita income growth averaged around 13 % during the past decade was accompanied by a drop of almost six children per female to just four . why is rapid population growth bad for a country ’s standard of living ? a growing population dilutes income not only of physical capital , but of human capital . the quality of children in poor households rises as their quantity proceeds because poor families with a lot of children are unable to invest enough in educating every child to ensure that future adults profit from a key determinant of economic success . the math is simple : more people means that ( on average ) everyone gets less .
that does not mean that activists should abandon the cause . but it does mean an understanding that even democracy has many rules , ideally the rules that a supermajority chose but are not chosen directly ; those rules generally reflect compromises among elected representatives capable of arguing and negotiating in person , reflecting the overall preferences of those who actually elected them . like it or not , they can not do that , as a flower brigade ; they need to be elected leaders who can speak up and negotiate for them . that might sound a bit too similar to the old system , but it need not be . what the modernizers need is to form a coherent force , and , most likely , political party , rather than simply relying on the wisdom ( and good behavior ) of the crowd to govern the country .
rising incomes ; growing demand for health care , childcare , and elder care in aging societies ; and investment in infrastructure , energy , and technology will create new job opportunities . given the secular and occupational distribution of such opportunities , there may be a moderately strong case for women to thrive . in fact , among many countries , women account for more than 70 % of health-care and socializing workers , and this sector could comprise one-quarter of the future employment opportunities of women ( manufacturing accounts for an equal share of potential job-gains for men ) . assuming that current gender occupational and sector patterns hold , women could have access to 20 % more jobs than they do today , compared to 19 % for men . this soft advantage for women reflects the robust growth that is expected in sectors like health care , where they are well represented .
i myself once witnessed putin ’s courting culture . in a new year , it was ’s new year ’s eve , during a concert at the poster-opened house of music house in moscow . directly , through me , putin appeared , sitting between the one-time dissident cellist and conductor mirrstislav rostropovich , and his equally infamous wife , the opera diva galina vishnevskaya , . russia ’s leader was like a kid in a candy store – thrilled to be surrounded by these cultural icons , former exiles no less . and the icons were apparently flattered by putin ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s adoration ( and by their proximity to power ) .
in an effort to revive growth in a difficult global environment and buffer exports against the effects of the asian financial crisis , the people ’s bank of china injected monetary and fiscal policies , starting in november 1997 , into growth . by 1998 , when cpi inflation began to fall , producer prices were already in decline for eight months , remaining negative for a full 51 months , with cpi growth beginning to recover after 39 months . but this has been too little , at least for now . an apparent lesson is that the government should have switched to loosening earlier and more forcefully . yet gdp growth soon started to slow down .
whereas blanchard focuses on the rate on low-risk government bonds , piketty is concerned with yields on risky capital investments . so have we now move from piketty ’s r > g world to blanchard ’s r a ’s r < g world ? if so , can their views be reconciled ? the answer , then , is no , and yes . the views expressed by piketty and blanchard can indeed be reconciled on the grounds that they talk different interest rates .
but , in that case , why all of the fuss so far ? the banks did not fail , and there is no sign that their dominicans are being umbling . by contrast , comparing their likely future losses , european banks raised relatively little capital recently – and much of it with creative accounting , rather than genuinely loss-absorbing shareholder equity . maybe the risk that a greek debt restructuring would produce a financial meltdown has always been minimal , and quiescent markets have to be expected . but that is not because the banks are prepared to do themselves by propping up more capital with them .
that way , an economically irrational lock-in effect – whereby workers simply can not afford to change jobs – is avoided . moreover , the benefits are generous enough to ensure that the short period of high unemployment does not force workers to sell their homes , or even to automobile . in the scandinavian countries , unlike , say , germany and sweden , government , not individual companies are responsible for most welfare benefits . the system protects not only the unemployed , who can continue to pay their mortgages and interest , but also , indirectly , the banks themselves , because their loans to households are repaid even in times of recession . and , rather than resolving all kinds of economically created private problems , laid-off workers can concentrate on finding new , more future-oriented jobs .
yet , having endured the currency - and capital-account crises with greater openness , many emerging-market economies still feel compelled to accumulate massive reserves in order to protect themselves in the face of greater global financial volatility . the irony is that this advice originated after much of their previous productive capacity vanished . while the system of financial globalization did not boost growth , it amplified volatility and instability . public investment and fundamental social protection can help turn that around , by creating millions more jobs . meanwhile , national “ policy space ” for economic recovery has shrunk since the crisis .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present over many years to come . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in bringing their uncontrolled military escalation now . one aspect of this supposed moral and cultural decline concerns the family : “ attacking the family ’s institution , treating it with contempt or doubts its vital role , ” ” the pope and grand imam state , “ is one of the most threatening evils of our era . ” the document asserts that a family is a “ core nucleus of community and humanity ” and “ is indispensable in bringing children into the world , raise them , and provide them with robust moral formation and domestic security . ”
following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . addis ababa – with nearly 60 % of its population under the age of 25 – africa is the world ’s youngest region . yet it is widely recognized that young people are often left behind . frequently , they face insufficient economic opportunities , and may also be socially or politically excluded . unless addressing youth socioeconomic and political engagement is addressed , achieving many in the united nations sustainable development goals ( sdgs ) will become impossible .
while trade has increased , investment is lagging , with russia ranks just tenth among china ’s export markets . russia ’s declining economic decline has heightened its anxiety about the rise of china . as the economist recently reported , russia fears are becoming an alliance of a junior partner – more dependent on china than china does on russia . in the nineteenth century , no country took more land from china than russia did , and the current demographic situation in the far east – where russia ’s number six million – and the population on its himalayan borders is up to $ 120 million – is creating more anguish in moscow . according to meng yujun of fudan university , “ the most important relationship for the us is one with america .
florence – in phaedrus ’s well-known wolf and lamb , a wolf easily eaten a lamb with no word , but prefers to set up his “ causes . ” then he argues , last year , that the lamb called him the “ bad name ” ( yet the lamb was just six months old ) . wolff then gaffls it that , if not a lamb , was his father ; after that , he immediately moves to action . wolff then gaffes that , if not a lamb , he was his father ; after that , he immediately moves to action . wolff ’s “ justifications ” for his evil action was a luxury that it made him possible .
and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but that does not augur all-out war . arlington , virginia – the election left one of the world ’s largest countries deeply divided , passed the presidency on to a military-loving , minority-bullying presidency , media-firebrand promising to smash the country ’s “ corrupt establishment . ” following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world .
she then quickly went on to hand a long celebratory speech on the heroism of america ’s soldiers “ to fight freedom ” abroad . this agenda might seem selfish , albeit understandable from an oil billionaire ’s viewpoint . but then there was something odd about an entire event , just as there is something odd about the tea party movement itself . doing so seemed an odd – and to a lot insulting – transition : from king ’s great pleading of civil rights to palin ’s sentimental clichés about the military . this latest surge of american populism is financed by some exceedingly wealthy men , including a few oil billionaires , like david and charles koch , who favor cutting taxes for the super-super-rich and abolishing us government subsidies to the poor , like social security and president barack obama ’s health-care plan .
though the degree to which their religious commitment differs , they also share a powerful , emotional attachment to the faith that provides francis i with considerable political leverage . the start of his papacy finds populist governments in vulnerable situations , hit hard by chávez ’s latest death . of course , they all have different identities and strengths ; but they will miss chávez ’s protections as well as his subsidies . latin america will no doubt be one of franco ’s priorities . moreover , they govern countries where catholics make the overwhelming majority .
but obama can not do it alone – and so far , neither the american public , nor america ’s congress , as it seems , is committed to re-connecting with his moral compass . nor is the revelations by the former us intelligence contractor edward snowden that no one is exempt from america ’s possibility of surveillance have stirred american surveillance to elicit a new approach . that should be unacceptably high , for example , if the us congress is to block the release of 86 bay detainees cleared by a us national-security committee . we must take the lead in the world , by deed , and by example . a response to a second major question shaping the world ’s future – whether china will recover its full economic momentum – also seems “ no , ” at least in the short run , with most experts agreeing that china ’s export-– and investment-led growth model has all but exhausted its potential .
nevertheless , substantive and remarkable advances have been made , all over the past few years . this has paved the way for next-generation pharmacies . to fill the prescription for a drug with a familiar pharmacogenomic profile , a customer can obtain rapid genotyping to fix the right dose , drug , or predilection for serious side-effects . genotyping can now spend accomplished 20 minutes , and over time gets much faster . moreover , day we will know – through sequencing the entire genome – of rarer genomic variations that are correlated with treatments or spillover effects .
from banks ’ perspective , the most obvious lesson was the need for a strong national government to shoulder the potential cost of rescue . the financial crisis produced a reassessment of where the greatest competitive advantages lie . the u.s. is large enough to manage behemoths like the bank of america or citigroup . very big banks in small territories with small-scale governments are vulnerable . it is no longer best to be subject to the most favorable regulatory regime , but to be where the state has the deepest pockets .
early european exploration has probably continued this rapid pace of extinction . the number of species known to have expired between 1,500 and 1800 , as taxonomists describe new species from the skeletal remains to which they find in the caucasus , for example , where bones still survived . still , we did have comparable analysis about the fate of the caribbean and indian oceanic islands following first human contact , but large numbers of extinctions have likely occurred in the caucasus , too . linneaus invented the modern process of naming species in the mid-1700 ’s , though naming did not get under way until the peace following napoleon bonaparte ’s defeat in 1815 . the number of species known to have expired between 1,500 and 1800 is increasing as taxonomists describe new species from the skeletal remains to be found in the caucasus , for instance , where bones still survive .
the plight of millions of refugees represents not only a humanitarian tragedy ; it also demands economic and strategic strain to countries in the region and europe . the islamic state ( isis ) may be losing its territorial dimension ; but it , together with other groups , will continue to pose a continuing terrorist threat for years to come . an iran nuclear pact at best blocks one aspect of iranian power , and for only limited periods of time . syria , iraq , yemen , and libya all deal with a mixed civil and proxy wars . and europe is already confronting many significant challenges , including russian aggression against ukraine , brexit , the rise of populism and nationalism , and low rates of economic growth .
these movements have created the space for forward-thinking policymakers to take action . nevertheless , the climate crisis remains on the rise , demonstrating that the us still has a long way to go . this year alone stricken catastrophicheat waves from north africa , europe , japan , pakistan , australia , and argentina . deadly wildfires have taken lives and devastated billions of dollars worth of property in greece , sweden , the united states , and russia . droughts have struck in kenya and somalia ; and afghanistan and south africa , which suffer from massive water shortages .
the stakes for both africa and the us are high . a strong , prosperous africa with a productive and expanding middle class is in america ’s interest , and a strong partnership with the us will be vital to africa ’s sustained growth and development . indeed , this is just the beginning of an important dialogue with the us . the decisions that we are making now will have implications for the next generation to come . we owe it to our descendants , and to silicon savannah entrepreneurs already take the lead – to get it right .
paris – some countries are naturally at ease with the concept and reality of strategic power . such was an obvious case in france under louis xiv , the sun king in the seventeenth century , and such is that today it is the case with china , whose leadership is comfortable with classical europe ’s balance-of-power games . on the economic front , india ’s self-confidence has boosted how the western world now looks to it with a mix of respect and greed : “ what sort of deals could i strike with such an emerging market , whose population would soon be perhaps the largest of any country in the world ’s largest ? ” to be sure , india is clearly in a different category . yet , to comprehend india ’s political and diplomatic relations with the outside world , the most enlightening comparison is with america in 1920 .
in both america and europe , for example , people who call themselves “ conservative ” on economic-policy matters believe that there are equal opportunities for all children , and that their countries ’ free-market economies are only fair . such people favor government intervention because they believe – left to its own devices – that markets do not ensure fairness , and perhaps even generate more inequality . just the opposite holds true for those who call themselves economically economically “ a liberal . ” views about social mobility are unequal across the political spectrum or across geographic regions . an even more striking pattern is that americans are overly optimistic about social mobility in parts of a country where actual mobility is low – including that of georgia ’s southeastern states , alabama , virginia , north carolina , and south carolina .
once upon a time , there were many relatively small department-store chains and other headquarters retailers spread across america , along with outlets in a number of towns . these headquarters brought incomes to their city by providing earth-office services along the lines of their grocery store network . the grocer , a coffee store and barber goes off from business , and everybody leaves is turning the eu into a ghost town . the disruption , it is possible , will not just be a industrial closure . but consolidation in the retail sector , driven partly by walmart and amazon , has dealt a deathblow to many of these firms .
the republicans ’ proposed tax cuts would generate a $ 2 trillion revenue shortfall over the next decade , and can not plug that hole with revenues savings either from their health-care reform plan or with the $ 1.2 trillion which could conceivably be expected out of the bat . now that the republicans need to choose between passing their tax cuts ( and adding $ 2 trillion to the public debt ) , the republican candidates need to shift their tax cuts to the public debt – and to pursue a far more modest reforms . the first scenario is unlikely , for three reasons . first , fiscally conservative congressional republicans will oppose a reckless increase in government debt . the bat does not have sufficient backing even among republicans ; it would violate world trade organization rules .
if a country saves more but investment remains unchanged , it borrows less from ( or lends more to ) the rest of the world . on the real side , its net export position and the current-account balance improves . part of the analytical attractiveness of national income accounts is that they add it . but that has not happened in that case , either . such resilience will be tested over the longer run , though , owing to fiscal and external imbalances unaffected by data-analysis .
first , when it comes to climate change , the important thing is to look like you are doing something . countries managing it that can get away with massaging the figures . the 2015 paris climate agreement provides a telling illustration of that . countries have made a grandiose commitment to keep the global temperature increase well below 2 ° c above pre-industrial levels , but all their promises collectively add just less than 1 % to what it was needed . new analysis shows that just 17 countries – including algeria and samoa – actually meet their commitments , in most cases because they promised very little at all .
that strategy faltered , in part because of america ’s intransigence under president george w. bush and had been abandoned when the 2009 copenhagen conference failed to produce a treaty to replace the expiring kyoto protocol ( which the american never signed ) . for its part , thawing siberian permafrost releases massive quantities of methane . as a result , the vast areas of our planet , currently home to billions of people , could become uninhabitable . earlier conferences by the unfccc ’s signatories sought to reach legally binding emissions cuts , at least for the industrialized countries that today have produced the majority of their greenhouse gases in the atmosphere . instead , the copenhagen accord merely asked countries for fiscally voluntary pledges to cut their emissions by concrete amounts .
along the same lines , during russian prime minister dmitri medvedev ’s presidency , he has called for creating a mechanism for europe ’s preventive diplomacy and compulsory consultations in case any eu state ’s security threats . had such a mechanism been established , the worst events in ukraine could have been averted . of course , political leaders are to blame for filing away these and other “ european ideas ” in the archives . but , by nature , i am an optimist , to admit that it is extremely difficult not to be pessimistic as 2014 comes to closer . but the fault , too , must be shared with the entire european political classes , civil-society institutions , and the media .
when it comes to solutions , europe is ahead of the curve . but , as europe ’s leaders increasingly recognize , it is time to hit the accelerator . for example , my home country , denmark , which was tasked with leading united nations energy talks at the un summit on energy , has integrated a huge amount of wind power into its electricity grid . sweden , which runs an industry workstream with india , has created the world ’s first fossil-fuel-free steel plant . and progress is hardly confined to northern europe : romania boasts europe , ’s ’s largest onshore wind farm ; poland leads when it starts to green buildings .
prejudice has tended to decline as participation rises . one result of the deal is paradoxical-sounding “ familiarity with difference . ” it has been in no one ’s interest to frighten this live-and let-live pragmatism for the very long term . tolerance of others ’s religiosity is the price paid for tolerance . because migrants participate in america ’s economic and political arenas , americans are used to various kinds of people , so they differentiate those differences that might damage the country from those that do not .
this keeps small businesses in poor nations and regions from reaching their full potential . founded on our own experiences -- in mexico , which opened itself off from foreign investment and trade , and in canada , which is a leaders of aid and a major source of private investment in developing countries -- we are convinced that many of these problems can be identified , isolated , and fixed . the professionals ’ entrepreneurial energy is already there : visit the tiniest city in the poorest country on market day , and you will see the private sector in action . if small firms could expand beyond village square , they could drive their countries ’ growth even better than that of any aid agency . that is why , when un secretary-general kofi annan and un development program administrator mark malloch brown asked us to lead a new commission to the private sector and development community , we agreed .
there is no guarantee that he will not repeat the gambit either . and yet , even if he does , kim has ’s own penchant for drama – from firing missiles over japan to carrying out frequent purges at home – suggests that he knows how to command the stage and bring trump to the table . so far , he has proven highly effective at keeping bromance alive and presenting a looming summit on track . moreover , his ego-stroking personal letters to trump show that he has a fair fix on the us president ’s psyche . regardless of when one ’s second summit does , the north korean regime will continue to reap dividends at america ’s expense in the meantime .
amid surging inequality , frustration with pervasive official corruption has intensified . in 2018 , kazakhstan ranked 124th out of 180 countries in transparency international ’s corruption perceptions index . meanwhile , the state fails to deliver basic security : olympic ice-skating medalist , denis ten , was assassinated at broad daylight at the center of kazakhstan ’s largest city , almaty , for attempting to prevent its car mirrors to be stolen . all of this made emigration an increasingly appealing option , particularly for young people , raising the specter of a “ brain drain . ” it has also turned a heat on simmering social unrest , which has boiled over since nazarbayev ’s resignation ( which may well have been intended mainly to preempt popular protests ) .
the call for job creation for the saudis may seem like a riches problem . but whenever the kingdom has sought to reduce public-sector hiring , unemployment has risen . some would argue that every kingdom needs to do so is to substitute saudi foreign workers for existing positions . but simple substitution will not do so , either . under the current system of incentives , authorities ’ plans to privatize companies and improve civil-service productivity will actually destroy those that are occupied by the saudis .
the idea that hundreds of cryptocurrencies could viably operate collectively not just contradicts the very concept of money ; it is totally idiotic . but for money to have an value at value and generate economies of scale , only so many currencies can operate simultaneously . the whole point of money is to allow parties to transact , without having to engage in barter . but so , too , is an idea that even a single cryptocurrency could substitute for fiat money . in the us , the rationale for not using euros or yen in addition to dollars is obvious : doing so would make the us economy far less efficient .
cool warfare threatens to undermine these efforts , because confronting america at the negotiating table requires that china strengthen its own position above all . that means ensuring that the disruptions resulting from america ’s short-termism do not present a long-term systemic threat for china , even as they harm the global economy as a whole . minimizing the fallout will require both sides to recognize that in an interconnected world , efforts to strengthen their own position become self-defeating as they undermine global stability and dynamism . the trade war has thrown that lesson into sharp relief . the unfolding sino-american cool war is far less cut-off and dried than the cold war was .
our price-and-rebate mechanism is inspiring the “ bonus/malus ” scheme in france , in which new automobiles are taxed , or given a bonus , depending on a vehicle ’s co2 emissions . in our system , a country that exceeds the global average for per capita emissions would pay spelled out a definite amount on every ton of co2 ( or its equivalent ) above a set threshold threshold . they also highlight the knock-on benefits that take quick action on climate change might have , including reducing local pollution , increasing energy and food security , and accelerating innovation . to speed up the shift toward a low-carbon economy , an international agreement must apply to all countries ; include a joint and consistent system for monitoring , reporting , and certifications ; and a robust set of economic incentives globally . studies ahead of the paris conference suggest that international cooperation could enable rapid reduction of greenhouse gases .
three months ago , i argued that all but a little-noticed and unbalanced fringe among economists approve of expansionary open-market operations to keep total nominal spending constant in a downturn , making it right . when there was no excess demand for cash , there would not be a excess supply of bonds and stocks that underpin and finance an economy ’s productive capital . i was also right to say that all but a diminutive , unassuming fringe of economists approve of central-bank guarantees of system-wide stability to prevent the risk of a meltdown of the payments system from becoming the first-order consideration boosting demand for cash to unnatural levels . by purchasing government bonds on monetary terms , the central bank can meet demand , pushing down the monetary price level . thus , expansionary monetary policy via standard operations by the central bank is a first item on the checklist of what to do in a financial crisis .
in fact , none other than george kennan , america ’s cold war containment strategy , opposed nato ’s enlargement in the 1990s , on precisely those grounds . the eastward expansion of nato and the european union contend , was an unnecessary provocation . for starters , it relies on the claim that , at the time of the berlin wall ’s collapse and the soviet union ’s disintegration , the west promised that no nato enlargement would exist . even mikhail gorbachev , on the 25th anniversary of the demise of the wall , accused the west of not keeping the promises it made in 1989 , instead seizing “ the advantage ” of russia ’s ’s weakening ” in the 1990s to assert monopoly and global domination , ” including through nato ’s enlargement . there are obvious limits to this theory , and even to the us .
even though its october world economic outlook presents a positive image of global growth , the imf , undoubtedly remains conscious of the panglossian view that it has offered in 2006 , now warns that the world economy is “ vulnerable to a abrupt tightening of financial conditions ” and that “ equity valuations ” seem stretched in some markets . against this background , “ some ” is the imf ’s code of conduct . how should we view all of these warnings then ? america ’s markets ’s share of global equity valuations is the highest it has ever been – a notable statistic awarded the declining u.s. share of global economic activity . the international monetary fund , too , has gotten its act .
which interest rate is the best way to make comparisons is a matter of debate , as are the effects of quantitative easing ; but i see no good reason not to use the ten-year-old government-bond differential , adjusted for inflation expectations . i have also developed what i have been calling a tab that corrects the “ equilibrium ” rate at the ecb for an ongoing economic cycle , by accounting for factors like the actual interest-rate differential between america and the eurozone . rightly so , the replacement managers for the euro-dollar exchange rate as of june 7 was € 1 : $ 1,0590 . given that the dollar traded at about $ 1.1250 against the euro on that day , this suggests that the dollar is indeed around 6 % weaker than it should be . now , of course , 6 % is no particularly significant difference , and this finding may mean nothing at all .
the banks defaulted on their borrowing , and their creditors took big “ haircuts ” ( reducing their principal value ) . the kazakh government , which had been scrambling to prop up its overextended private banks with capital injections and nationalizations , gave itself up and decided to pull the plug . but , and here ’s the point that with its debts written off , the banking system is now recapitalized and the ability to encourage economic growth . despite a messy default , that fresh start has created a striking turnaround . the party came to a crashing halt in 2009 , when two sharif bowed to global investment banks accelerated loan repayment – hoping to get their money back again .
in the drc , for example , even after all this time we reach just 8 % of the 760,000 children . yet , most important , this is education itself ’s moment as the world ’s young people are demanding it . just $ 230 per year per year per person , with access to basic needs like water , food , and shelter is enough , with less than $ 10 per child going toward education . this year must be education ’s moment – a window of opportunity , opened by a new consensus that education is critical to achieving the un sustainable development goals ( sdgs ) – including by reducing maternal and infant mortality rates , encouraging job creation , improving the quality of life , and opening our minds to questions of gender equality . when a girl holds a story up to an insurgent ’s gun in pakistan , where teenage mothers exiled in south sudan in neighboring uganda make education for their children a top priority , and when lights viewed from space might include children huddled by candlelight trying to read and study , we know that education has arrived .
president jimmy carter used this to conclude the 1978 camp david accords , establishing diplomatic relations between egypt and israel . and secretary of state james baker used it to transcend the recalcitrance of israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir shamir during the madrid peace conference . it is time for the us to recognize that it can not resolve the israeli-palestinian conflict , defuse the iranian nuclear dispute , change north korea ’s behavior , or suspend a syrian civil war on its own terms . over the past two decades , the world has grown used to us-led international coalitions for war in the middle east . if the us can not ensure that it does today , it must relinquish its monopoly on international conflict-resolution .
by appeasing terrorist acts in this way , the world ’s most powerful states give a green light to terrorists not just in the balkan states but across the globe . thus , before the anti-terror campaign seeks other terrorist base to destroy does so , it should eliminate terror in an area where the un itself is ruling . if the world fails to eradicate the terrorists from politics in kosovo , what hope is that defeating terrorism is there ? if not , the un , nato , and the european union will discredit themselves as much as the humanitarian values that they use to justify their `` humanitarian '' interventions . kosovo is a territory far smaller than afghanistan .
the view that an individual gene might account for an entirely biological trait is as old as genetics itself . soon , several early geneticists , the founders of the eugenics movement , made the odious assertion that “ licentiousness , ” proshiftlessness , and “ criminality ” could all , just like those that are , now potentially , attributed to individual genes as they do . how time has passed and the scientific understanding accumulated -- much of it derived from the fruit fly -- the true complexity of the relationship between genes and traits became clear . soon , a few early geneticists , the founders of the eugenics movement , made the odious assertion that “ licentiousness , ” draflessness , and “ criminality ” could all , no less , be attributed to individual genes just like it . if the relationship between the fruit fly ’s genes and behavior is so complex , can it be any less so with humans ?
like boxing and poker , it is soft , restrained , by the private form of warfare . and , after all , one can not have a finite , utopian society without having a finite , scientific theory of human behavior , combined with some mad scientists or philosophes to preside over an entire thing . the problem is that , no matter how scientifically ” such new beliefs have been formulated , they remain fallible . military strategists have known for many centuries that there was and could be , no final science of war . among other things , the struggle among individual people over the control of scarce resources is a struggle .
paris – earlier this week , following days of strained discussion , the new government in athens reached an agreement with its eurozone creditors that includes a series of urgent reform package and a four-month extension of greece ’s financing program . but , despite europe ’s collective sigh of relief , no compromise preclude the need for deeper negotiations on a new financial-aid program that is supposed to introduce by the end of june . in any negotiations , the key variable affecting the protagonists ’ behavior , hence the outcome , is what failure to reach an agreement would have cost each to each . in that case , the issue risks greece ’s exit ( “ grexit ” ) from the eurozone – a prospect that has been widely discussed in the media along the lines of the recent negotiations – with considerable speculation about the stance taken by the various players , particularly the greek and german governments . from greece ’s perspective , abandoning the euro would be highly disruptive , which explains why there is very little support for it on the country .
yet the electoral flaws are not always the entire picture . elections in countries that had become strangers to democracy appear never mind , as afghanistan ’s recent vote demonstrated and as one election in iraq is likely to be . but the electoral flaws are not always the entire picture , let alone the entire picture . consider kazakhstan , where five million people cast ballots in september for their parliament ’s lower house . to be sure , western media are judged “ neither equitable nor free . ”
it is largely a matter of providing public goods : basic infrastructure like roads , bridges , harbors , and power , as well as providing access to education and basic health care . satisfying the demand for such goods is by itself a source of growth . yet , too , a reliable highway creates tremendous additional activity , because trade increases among interconnected areas , with myriad businesses , restaurants and hotels spring along the path . and , unlike many equally poor countries , india already has a very strong entrepreneurial class , a reasonably large and well-educated middle class , and a host of world-class corporations that can be enlisted as part of efforts to provide those public goods . just as india has been shunning the stultifying license raj in the 1990 ’s , once successive governments understood the imperative of economic growth , so much so that the bharatiya janata party ( bjp ) contested the 2004 election on a pro-development platform , encapsulated in the slogan , india ’s shining a shining path .
its infrastructure , both material and intellectual , became poorer ; its economic structure had been unfit for new challenges , owing to solid size and specialization within traditional sectors , as well as lower-skill educational attainment and r & d. its infrastructure , both material and intellectual , was unfit for new challenges , owing to firm size and specialization in traditional sectors , as well as in low levels of education and r & d. yet berlusconi ’s government did next to nothing to address these flaws , despite being the first government in italy ’s history to survive a full five-year electoral term . with an unassailable parliamentary majority , it could have pursued a coherent supply-side reform , even at the risk of some incipient unpopularity . a few reforms were belatedly carried out : timid pension interventions and a further increase in labor-market flexibility . but nothing was done to deregulate product markets , or give the proper incentives for restructuring , while privatization came in a grinding coup .
indeed , despite civil wars , malnutrition , and the anguish for the aids epidemic , something remarkable is happening in black africa : the stealthy elevation of an high-technology sector . there are some 1,500 africans process american health-insurance assertions – work around the back of three shifts . africans speak english , type at least 50 words a minute on a computer , take news data supplied by american health insurers through e-form satellite , jamming it in new digital forms , and ship it back to america . if not entirely representing an african “ silicon valley , ” these shoots of high-tech industries nonetheless can and must be nurtured if africa is to be thriving . consider what is happening on several floors of a single high-rise office building in accra , ghana ’s capital .
the purpose of that effort has always been to prevent a relapse into the old system of power rivalries , reciprocal alliances , and hegemonic head butting . still , the westphalian system was destroyed with the twin world wars of the first half of the twentieth century , both of which were actually european wars for world domination . the westphalian system was replaced with the cold war bipolar world order wherein sovereignty rested with the two non-european nuclear powers : the united states and the soviet union . when the weapons collapsed silent in 1945 , europeans , even victorious european allies – effectively losing their sovereignty – came to power . the eu was conceived as an attempt to reclaim european sovereignty peacefully , by pooling european states ’ national interests .
in october and november , the ecb will announce the results of its bank stress tests . if the ecb grossly understates the risks , its credibility as a regulator will be badly tarnished . one hopes that the ecb will be forthright . because many banks hold the large volume of eurozone government debt , the results will depend very much on how the ecb evaluates sovereign risk . if it is more forthright about the risks , there is a chance that some periphery countries might have this holes , and will require assistance from the north .
the researchers should take advantage of full representative test groups , while looking after rigorous data privacy and accountability protocols . they should expand the scope of their investment to include ai-enabled technology for mental-health-care delivery technologies . venture capital firms now spend $ 3.2 billion annually on global health research and development ( tb ) . they could also fund competitions among socially conscious technology entrepreneurs , in order to spur further innovations in this field . to be sure , such initiatives cost money .
consider , for example , harvard university ’s ’s ’s engineering growth laboratory , which i founded in 2006 after two highly fulfilling policy engagements in el salvador and south africa . since then , the us has been working for more than three dozen countries and regions . in some respects , the lab looks a bit like a teaching and a research hospital . yet the sugar-based hospital model could also be effective on public policy . it focuses both on research and on the clinical work of serving “ patients , ” ” ” or on governments in the us .
new england ’s fledgling textile mills was desperate for technology , and did its best to steal british designs and smuggle in the skilled british artificismen . and the us has as much to have british industrialists ’ trade collusion as china has today for american intellectual-property rights . as one business historian put it , americans were pirates , too . any sensible international trading regime would have to start from the recognition that it is neither practicable nor desirable to restrict such policy space countries have to design their own economic and social models . as one business historian put it , americans were pirates , too .
still , if the world moves in this direction , something along the lines of a new conclave of political global power would begin to take shape , as well as to the beginnings of a new international system . yes , one can debate a third way or a half way ; the two and a half ways , or the three and a half , yet these are basically marginal debates . the other great change , ie , the end of global ideological divide – also raises difficult and possibly more complex issues further down the road . there exists a fundamental , even on an occasion of ritualistic , consensus on the notion that democracy and human rights are the points of departure for political organizing with certain form of free market , with varying degrees of social responsibility , based on private enterprise as the underpinning economic activity . making all of these changes will be challenging , even now , for all .
developing bhe would require a new platform for private-sector investment , structured to provide bespoke returns for its diverse participants . public contributions , likely backstopped by multilateral lenders , would yield projects with something close to sovereign-risk profiles . it would offer returns close to those yielded to equity investment , but with some of the risk offset by their long-term nature . finally , the fundamentally regulated nature of cash flows would enable better pre-defined pre-defined return structures than traditional private or public capital can offer . the risk would be mitigated further by the participation of large , influential investors , including sovereign-wealth funds , pension funds , and perhaps even international financial institutions .
and countries ’ desire to maintain good relations with china , because of its rising economic power , can not be discounted . but those actions may be less a mark of the renminbi ’s inevitable march toward global dominance , rather than a low-cost bet on its likely emergence as a widely accepted international currency . capital inflows – which will undoubtedly grow in the years ahead – are driven largely by investors ’ concern for diversification and high yields , rather than a country ’s ’s ’s image as a haven from troubled financial markets elsewhere , particularly given that china ’s financial markets are relatively underdeveloped and beset by significant risks . to be sure , some foreign central banks have signed into law swap agreements with china , and even hold small amounts of its currency in their reserve portfolios . depending on how soon china opens its capital account and develops its financial markets , the renminbi could become a significant reserve currency in the near term .
of course , there are other us-mexican agenda issues , ranging from intelligence-sharing and counterterrorism to regional crises like venezuela , nicaragua , and possibly cuba . amlo will almost certainly sustain mexican cooperation on a first-set of issues , while retreating into mexico city ’s traditional and more archaic , anti-interventionist posture to regional diplomacy . and the american drug enforcement administration will not look kindly on any backtracking by previous mexican presidents ’ commitments to continue waging an expensive , bloody , and futile war of choice on drugs in mexico . peasants in guerrero cultivate amazon for cartels . but trump cares more about security than he is doing about venezuelan president nicolás maduro or venezuelan ’s daniel ortega , so a genuine rupture here may be avoided .
the same year , similar protests have erupted in the democratic republic of congo , following the enactment of legislation that would enable president joseph kabila to prolong his tenure at the ballot box . in 2015 , enabled by a new constitution , burundi ’s president , pierre nkurunziza , won a third term amid violent protests . the au should show leadership on this front , pursuing interventions that buttress constitutional democracy , in line with its agenda , 2063 . the au has resisted military coups in the past . on the heels of its success in sudan , it must confront “ “ constitutional coups ” carried out by presidents , as it establishes itself more firmly as a force for peace and democratic governance in africa .
the aging population is contributing to europe ’s poor economic performance . the fertility rate among immigrants typically is higher than that of native european or north american families . higher fertility rates in the us , the united kingdom , and france reflect the large number of immigrant families in every eu country . still , increasing the number of immigrant workers will not necessarily raise the birth rates . germany , for example , has a large number of guest workers , but few are ever to settle there with its families ; the majority leaves its children in their homeland .
to be sure , there were n’t any consequences whatsoever for cheney . impunity is widespread – indeed , most corporate crimes are going un-noticed . the news barely made ripple in american media . the politically culprits at the apex of these firms rarely need to cause alarm . to be sure , the few noticed typically end with a slap on the christ , with a company – meaning that its shareholders – – picking up a modest fine .
greene found that people had asked to make moral judgments about “ personal ” violations , like pushing a foreigner out of a footbridge . this was not the case with people seeking to make judgments about relatively “ impersonal ” behaviors , like throwing a switch . why would our judgments and our emotions have vary in that manner ? for most of our evolutionary history , human beings – as well as our primate ancestors – were living in small groups , in which violence could be inflicted solely in up-close and personal ways , through strikes , repress , strangling , or use a stick or stone as a club . moreover , the minority of subjects who considered it to be right to push the foreigner off the footbridge took longer to reach that judgment than would have been told that doing so would be wrong .
there is high political uncertainty and the absence of any prospect that a general election should resolve it anytime soon . in 1949 , britain found itself on the same side , with the trade deficit vis-à-vis the united states and weak investor confidence . in september of that year , sterling again was devalued , as happened just 18 years earlier , at more than 30 % . in today ’s more complicated legal environment , it will take years for years to negotiate trade deals with the eu and then further partners . to be sure , investors have every reason to adopt a wait-and-see attitude .
in fact , power led refah to compromise , rather than to the extremes . once in power , erbakan tempered his tone and actions . relations with israel did indeed improve with more visits by ranking turkish officials than ever before -- a move orchestrated by miller but accepted by refah . turkey continued to allow the u.s.-led “ operation provides comfort ” against iraq in order to use turkish bases . it remained a vital member of nato ’s sphere of relations .
new york – in 1893 , the playwright george bernard shaw , an ardent proponent of promoting women ’s suffrage and equality , wrote ms. warren ’s profession , a play whose title is the proprietor of a pair of brothels . the play justifies her profitable exploitation of prostitution entrepreneurship . the play is not salacious , and encompassing no coarse language , but that was nonetheless eight years before it could be staged . its opening in london in 1902 was staged in a small-town theater , ” ” ” ” ” raided the members . its performance in new york in 1905 was raided by the police .
nairobi/paris – africa is on the brink of an unemployment crisis portending profound economic , political , and social ramifications . indeed , while the african development bank ( afdb ) hopes to create 25 million new jobs within a decade through its youth jobs initiative in africa , it is not immediately clear where those opportunities will emerge . each year , some 13 million youngsters look for work in africa , but only about three million are finding jobs . the continent ’s youth population is projected to double by 2050 , to 840 million , and yet africa ’s new schools and universities are not producing enough students with the skills to succeed tomorrow ’s workplace . yet the crisis can be diverted , and one solution may be as simple as turning on the lights .
now , plans are afoot to “ promote a future of peace and security in the middle east ” through a us-polish peace conference in warsaw for the palestinians . but no palestinian , arab or responsible international leader would ever accept that design , as has been made clear in the messages delivered by world leaders to the trump administration . let us be clear : a two-state solution does not mean accommodating the illicit realities of israeli settlements ; rather , it means the end of this colonial enterprise . refusing to mention a two-state solution , trump ’s statements go the other way , more in line with israel ’s official position : one state and two systems . they have failed to calculate that the palestinian people have dignity and national pride , just like any other nation , and will insist that they be treated accordingly .
in any case , it is not as if shunning talk on israel is a departure for sanders . he surely has never embraced israel as a form of political cause , as many other american jewish politicians have . nor does israel appear to figure out much in its own jewish identity , which is more linked to the memory of the holocaust than to anything else . yet , in this respect , sanders is no different than many other american jews . despite having spoken about when needed , he generally has not gone unnoticed on issues relating to the country .
for trump , as for president calvin coolidge , the american people ’s chief business is business . nothing has been said about human rights , far fewer women ’s rights , and the word “ democracy ” has never passed trump ’s lips . now , king salman has embraced trump ’s war against terrorism and anti-iran rhetoric by expressing his support for israeli-palestinian peace . the deal seems to have become the foundation of a wonderful new friendship , between the world ’s oldest democracy and its most repressive islamic regime . instead , trump has completed an agreement to provide $ 110 billion in advanced armaments to saudi arabia , which in turn will invest heavily in america ’s economy .
because gold was $ 400 an ounce in both years , holding gold did nothing to offset the fall in value of the dollar . a japanese investor holding dollar equities or real estate could instead offset the exchange-rate loss through buying yen futures . the same is true for a euro--based investor that would not get by holding gold but could offset the dollar ’s decline by buying euro futures . tips or their equivalent from other governments , providing secure inflation hedges and explicit currency futures may compensate for exchange-rate risks . in short , there are better ways than a gold to hedge inflation risk and exchange-rate risk .
munich – because china pegged its undervalued currency , the renminbi , to the us dollar , every weakening of the dollar in the wake of america ’s great recession also meant a depreciation of the renminbi vis-à-vis other global currencies . europe , too , has become nervous , following the rise of the euro ’s exchange rate to more than $ 1.40 , well beyond the denomination ( ppp ) rate of $ 1.17 . the united states is now engaged in drastic steps towards china , creating provisions for the trade war as a whole . but is china really to blame the eruption of a global currency war ? south korea ’s central banks , brazil , taiwan , japan , the switzerland , and many other countries are now buying dollars to defend their own currencies against revaluation , and thus defend their exports .
but while these sources can yield valuable insights , they are not met with norms of methodological rigor and a conceptual clarity on which an informed public conversation should be based . it is critical that we develop an internationally recognized set of indicators and methods for tracking incomes and riches . to this end , an especially important milestone will come with a revisionist one , owing in the next three years to the united nations system of national gdp . government statistical agencies should publish their incomes and wealth levels of the top 1 % , up from 0.1 % and 0.001 % , as well as the effective tax that such groups pay . for these reasons , the world ’s researchers , the mass media and civil-society organizations will need to be freer .
moreover , trump and congressional republicans are learning that replacing obamacare is easier said than done . health-care reform , as hillary clinton might have been told , is fearsomely complicated . it is becoming increasingly clear that the name changes ( “ trumpcare , ” ” anyone ? eliminating federal health-insurance coverage under the affordable care act ( “ obamacare ” ) would save the us government slightly more than $ 100 billion annually , about 3 % of federal spending . but those subsidies are also largely paid for by their own dedicated taxes .
during cardoso 's tenure , he privatized telecoms , national mining companies , and part of the electric sector . inflation came down , but with unemployment , public debt , and urban violence all rising sharply . social inequalities heightened , and last year , brazil suffered blackouts and electricity rationing . social inequalities heightened , and brazil suffered blackouts and electricity rationing earlier this year . starting in the campaign , lula showed force , particularly after the right ’s favored candidate , princess sarney , crash and burned when the federal police and prosecutors discovered cash sitting in her husband ’s office .
in case one would think that those receiving such a windfall would spend it on alcohol , gambling , or prostitution , independent evaluation has shown that they do not . for $ 450 million , one could also purchase $ 180 million bed nets , enough to protect 271 million people from malaria . ( for all these interventions , the numbers are likely to be rather smaller , because the charity ’s impact calculator does not propose any such grand sums , and so ignores that costs will rise as soon as the needs of those who are simplest to reach have been met . ) when a person chooses to buy “ salvator mundi ” rather than restoring sight to more than nine million people , what does that say about their values ? give directly ’s cash transfers add to recipients ’ food security , mental-health and assets .
mail managers will also manage incoming messages and facebook , linkedin , and others requests as specified by recipient , and will collect loan cards from senders ( or , more likely , charge their paypal ’s accounts or navigate other payment systems as they emerge ) . the recipient is unlikely to see the complexities ; much of that will be handled along the lines . but such challenges will diminish over time ; and , as fewer mail are sent , a growing proportion will be wanted and answered . to start , you can simply set your price – say , of $ 1 , along with a list of people who can get to reach you for free . there will be lots of glitches early , beginning with the people with multiple e-mail addresses , old friends not on your current white-collar book , and so forth .
in business and immigration , for example , bannon ’s acquired philosophy aligned with trump ’s political opportunism ( trump ’s more liberal , often democrat-backing former self is yet another story ) . bannon reinforced the nationalist inclination that led trump to overrule his daughter ivanka and his economic advisers by withdrawing from the paris climate agreement . and bannon had been intruded on foreign policy by ever getting himself into the national security council for some time , until two of the trump administration ’s generals , national security adviser , h. r. mcmaster and john kelly ( now the chief of staff ) , – had him removed . it was a mistake to view bannon as pygmalion to trump ’s galatea , or , as some have done , as trump ’s white house rasputin . ( bannon was confident that he was behind the more recent push to compel mcmaster , mainly by implying that he is “ anti-israel . ” )
in doing so , they mistrust one another too much to collaborate . parochial suspicion has been the main obstacle to a grand solution . no country ’s taxpayers wanted to feel paid for others ’ excesses : the single currency did not impose shared responsibility . meanwhile , demand in much of europe is weak , ruling out the economic growth required to pay down debts and to offer hope for the 25 million unemployed . thus , the creditor countries that led germany sought to do the minimum needed to keep the euro living , while the debtors grumbled impotently about germany ’s insistence on fiscal austerity .
the french economy , in turn , is suffering , because its customers in southern europe are in trouble . the cheap credit ushered in the european fed ’s inflationary credit bubble in southern europe that burst when the financial crisis hit . the credit conditions deteriorated abruptly , and what was left was thoroughly overpriced rump of economies that became excessively dependent on foreign financing . according to a study by goldman sachs , france would have to depreciate by about 20 % relative to the eurozone average , and by roughly 35 % vis-à-vis germany , to restore external-debt sustainability . the ecb and the international community , in particular , have been trying to deal with the crisis by rewarding a dearth of private capital with public credit .
if i want to know whether it was inconceivable that napoleon met kant , i pick volumes k and n , and discover that napoleon was born in 1769 and died in 1821 , and that kant were held in 1724 and died in 1804 and died in 1804 . surely , the author encyclopedias is never to be reading cover to cover . the same happens , even when you read philosophy by husserl . the author opened his fist page with a series of questions , to which you can see how he achieves his conclusions . of course , encyclopedias is never intended to be reading cover to cover .
letting them in might produce a better team , but it would no longer be our team . from one perspective , this is just another instance of emotion defeating economic logic . but our emotions are the underlying algorithms , evolution bequeathed by which we make a majority of decisions , including a politically painful analysis that does not tie to our emotional compass does not move the needle . what does it mean to be a eu member , nigeria , iraq , turkey , the switzerland or any other political entity ? at the heart of the issue is the sense of the us .
if a government has sprang from an reasonably fair election , and elected government manages to fill the most important political offices , the country is seen as “ electorally competitive . ” a careful study of 47 muslim-majority nation states by the end of this year shows that islam and democracy can and do band together . this finding is based on a comparison between muslim countries ’ “ electoral competitiveness . ” the real gap is narrower : it is the arab world , not islam , that seems to be loggerheads with its democracy . frequently , islam and democracy are assumed to have been bitter antagonists .
understanding the history of synthetic biology is important , because recognizing the correct paradigm has critical implications for how governments regulate it , which in turn affects potentially application and diffusion of technology . on the other hand , the swiss bioengineer martin fussenegger has rightly observed that venter ’s achievement “ is a technical advance , not a purely conceptual case . ” other researchers have noted that the organism is indeed only “ semi-synthetic , ” because the synthetic dna ( which comprises only about 1 % of the cell ’s dry weight ) has been introduced into a normal or non-synthetic , bacterium . thirty-five years ago , the american national health institutes adopted overly risk-averse guidelines for research using recombinant dna or “ genetic engineering ” techniques . ( if anything , these standards are excessively burdensome . )
paris – with weak demand in the advanced countries now impeding growth in the emerging economies , including the major players in asia and latin america , many are arguing that the era of income convergence has come to an end . nothing could be further from the truth . as i argued previously , the convergence of emerging countries ’ real average incomes in the aggregate , at the expense of advanced countries ’ incomes , was likely to continue into that of 2020 . that process began in the late 1980 ’s and proceeded with unabated , except in the years around the asian financial crisis of 1997-1998 . the pace of convergence accelerated further during and , just after the 2008-2009 global financial crisis : an annualized per capita income growth averaged over four percentage points during the 1980s , from slightly more than two percentage points in the two decades prior to .
labour sought to avoid a constitutional debate on the matter , because any move in the direction of federal institutions requires addressing the party ’s over-representation in the uk parliament . that belief fit the two main political parties , it seems , suited that belief by the two major political parties . so long as we are to prevent the uk from rattling in a brexit way , we need to change how we govern ourselves . it is unfair to give further power to a scottish parliament while continuing to hand labour , which controls the 41 scottish constituencies in the house of commons , disproportionately say over what happens in england . as for the conservatives , may ’s party granted its belief in a united kingdom ’s constituent parts to foreclose any discussion about how that could be modernized in the union .
that means reaching out to public figures seeking on-the-track corrections , lodging current complaints with standard-setting bodies , and rolling out trainings for media organizations . at the same time , fact-checking organizations should focus not simply on tackling fake disinformation , but also on identifying sources of reliable information and pointing their readers and followers toward them . it also means working with tech companies to find ways to avoid the broader circulation of misinformation , including across international borders . and we should work with schools and other education platforms to help teach people to identify false or misleading claims . this is the approach taken by our organizations ; and , as little and under-resourced as they are , the impact is already apparent .
london – one of today ’s most dispassionate features of international debates is that the threat to humanity posed by a world of 23,000 nuclear weapons – and to those that would build more of them , or are simply too ready to use – has been consigned to the margin of politics . it would be the brave gambler to bet on the ratification of america ’s comprehensive test treaty any time soon . us president barack obama grabbed global attention with his prague speech in 2009 , making a compelling case for a nuclear-weapon-free world . and he was delivering a major new arms-reduction treaty with russia , and hosted a summit aimed at reducing vulnerability to nuclear weapons and materials for theft or diversion . at the same time , the nuclear issue of issues has still been a struggle for public resonance and political traction .
but the state of infrastructure in the us suggests that too many decision-makers do not share this view . a 2013 report by the american society of civil engineers indicated that america ’s poor global d grade + grade for its infrastructure . the report concludes that an investment of $ 3.6 trillion ( roughly one-fifth of the country ’s ’s annual gdp ) will be required by 2020 to boost america ’s infrastructure quality of its ability to address the “ significant sort of overdue maintenance ” backlog [ and the ] pressing need for modernization . the message cited numerous state-specific shortcomings , including michigan ’s “ 88 excess hazard dams and 1,298 structurally deficient bridges ” and the “ $ 44.5 trillion needed to upgrade the drinking-water system in california . ” it seems self-evident that an underdeveloped economy requires adequate , ongoing investment in public goods .
governments may behave unilaterally and multilaterally to regulate commodity markets , but it is a mistake to view prohibition as the ultimate , or near-, form of regulation . in fact , prohibition in a sense represents the abdication of regulations . whatever is not repressed is effectively unregulated , other than criminal organizations . global markets in cannabis , opium and coca products resemble other global commodities markets , yet global drug-control policies operate on the assumption that the drug markets bear more in common with smallpox , and other infectious ills to which there is little demand for them . the second myth presumes that prohibition reduces harm associated with drugs .
as it stands , however , we have “ fished down ” us stocks until few big , old individuals remain . this is for the best of the reasons – the fish caught where they are too little will produce a little yield . for example , the avowed intention of the eu ’s common fisheries policy has been “ to protect fish resources by regulating the amount of land taken from sea fish , by enabling young fish to reproduce , and to make sure that actions are honored . ” furthermore , the fish wo n’t have any chance to reproduce , undermining fish stocks completely . to see this , consider north sea cod .
but putin ’s ambitions as a post-modern autocrat may be his achilles ’ achilles ’ achilles heel . official surveys insist that 86 % of russians – and typically 86 % – support him on everything from his annexation of crimea to his latest term as president . with the russian economy stagnating , owing largely to international sanctions and the kremlin counter-sanctions , discontent will continue to simmer . the truth about what people genuinely feel remains unclear . after all , autocrats often mistake their people ’s proclamations of love and admiration for the real .
but it was probably in hungary , the first country to seek an imf package , that such practices were most widespread . yet this vulnerability was largely created , or , at least accommodated , by western banks . financing provided by parent banks that in the earlier stages of the crisis helped to supply liquidity to eastern europe ’s banking systems now appears more like a liability – and a potential source of contagion . moreover , the penetration of foreign banks was effectively deprived countries in central and eastern europe of monetary policy tools , leaving them with little control over exceptionally rapid credit growth . it was also the west european financial regulators and supervisors who , under “ home rule , ” were supposedly discouraging such excesses .
emulating countries elsewhere , african governments have reacted to violent extremism mainly by erecting a “ tough ” security first . but this strategy has not diminished extremist groups ’ potency or constrained its scope . in fact , there is mounting evidence that an exclusive military response may be wasteful , or even do more harm than good . what is missing is a deeper examination of root causes , particularly underlying development challenges . add to that mismanaging ethnic and religious diversity , stirring across a large and growing cohort of unemployed and digitally connected youth , and offers ideal conditions for mayhem .
furthermore , wherever health-care costs burden everyone – including the united states , with its public-health programs for the poor and elderly – everyone pays the costs of the drug ’s efforts to treat drug diseases caused by drug use . whether to prohibit cigarettes altogether is another question , because doing so would undoubtedly create a new source of revenue for organized crime . indeed , it seems curious , though , that the state can prohibited sales of a product in principle , but it may not permit it to be sold only at the time that implement graphic images of the damage it causes to human health . industry worries that the law might be copied in much larger world markets , such as india and china . now , the us tobacco industry has run its fight against australia ’s legislation to the world trade organization .
in neighboring haiti , which had been n’t ready , 2,000 lives had been lost . the united nations framework convention on disaster loss-absorbing research has refused to fund efforts unless states have demonstrate exactly how catastrophes they feared have been linked to climate change . policies of climate change are not the best way to minimize the effects of weather disasters ; it is an important part of climate change . according to a recent rand study , the united nations framework convention on disaster loss-reduction research funding in 2003 amounted to roughly $ 127 million – just 7 % of the amount invested in climate-change research worldwide during this year . during the run-up to the 2004 hurricane season , the g8 republic – which channeled into investments in hurricane shelters and emergency evacuation networks – suffered fewer than ten deaths .
specifically , leaders focused on investment , trade , competition , and efforts to entice more women into the labor force ; the fairness of the international tax system ; and how to target corruption . the brisbane summit ’s signing achievement was to leverage the just-announced us-china emission target into formal g-20 support for “ robust and effective action to address climate change . ” other formal outcomes of the g-20 ’s meeting were agreements – backed by more policy detail than most commentators expected – to stimulate global growth . ( all of this dismaying australia ’s conservative host government to have struggled to prevent the issue even from rising again ; the australian public , however , has been overridden , with promptly topped by prime minister tony abbott ’s approval rating in postsummit polls for such and other embarrassments as well . ) the g-20 ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s stance represents a potent challenge to the rest of the world to reach a global agreement at the united nations climate change conference in paris in december 2015 .
but reveling in the country 's monarchical history may be dangerous . if one is intent on being able to impress russian president vladimir putin or other foreign dignitaries , hosting them in such magisterial setting as versailles , is certain to prove effective . but reveling in a country 's monarchical history may be dangerous . many of those who voted for macron may have , indeed , been hoping for a twenty-first-century bonaparte . now , however , they may think more about louis xvi , a king who has paid with his life for the faults of his predecessors .
for many , the global economic summit , held in london in april 2009 , marks the point when america ’s economy turned the corner . and they did , culminating in one of the most successful periods of global policy coordination in history , involving both advanced and emerging economies . and this was what the us economy received in the form of unprecedented fiscal stimulus and unthinkable policy activism on the part of the american federal reserve . the change was so notable that many policymakers fell into the trap of projecting a quick rebound , particularly in view of america ’s prior history of economic dynamism and resilience , only to be humbled by what proved to be a protracted and complex recovery process . as they intervened , american policymakers consult closely with their counterparts worldwide , urging them to take on a supportive course .
fear feeds on itself , and the prediction that stocks will lose value becomes self-fulfilling . the 2008 recession was triggered by the collapse of a us real-estate bubble . housing wealth in the us has fallen by only 34 % since its peak in 2006 and is still declining . the us stock market has fallen nearly 50 % since its 2007 peak , and it remains down by almost a third . this enormous loss of wealth created a massive and persistent downward spiral in consumption demand , leading to rising unemployment .
as the media landscape increasingly lends itself to capture , political and corporate accountability will only diminish . that is why the center for international media aid has just released a new report flashing a spotlight on the phenomenon , calling a solution . free , healthy news media are critical to a well-functioning democracy . if we are to protect the latter , we must defend ex-kgb man at all costs . the billionaire american casino owner sheldon adelson , for example , did n’t purchase a las vegas review-journal in 2015 or capture israeli media coverage of us money .
so far , merkel has had to deal with a weak or non-existent opposition . that will change very quickly , particularly given the possibility of nato ’s troop increase in afghanistan . from now on , she will demand a trait that she has lacked so far : management and decision-making skills . that triumph of the black and yellowish people has , moreover , defined the alternative : red , dark red , and greens . the political camps of the old – the left and the right – are back .
instead , we need to integrate transport , housing , and land-use management , encourage dependence on public transportation , and make our streets complacent and securely safe for walking ( particularly to women and their disabilities ) . this includes creating more efficient energy systems and increasing our investments in renewables ( which , one hopes , create jobs in the process ) . the fourth challenge is to change our ability to produce , transport , and consume energy . fifth , we need to reform how we manage our water and water infrastructure in order to redeploy this precious resource into multiple times and on a city-wide scale . we can also encourage households to consume less energy , and companies to reduce much of the energy they waste .
ramallah – israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu certainly has reason to celebrate . he has surprised almost all by securing a decisive electoral victory , winning a third consecutive term in office , after his far-right likud party gained a five-seat advantage in the knesset over his main rival , the center-left zionist union . but the celebration is likely to be short-lived . fulfilling that outcome , netanyahu finagled – renouncing his commitment to a two-state solution with palestine , and pledging to resume building settlements on occupied land , will almost certainly have serious political and diplomatic consequences for israel . netanyahu ’s hardline stance in recent years has increasingly undermined israel ’s international credibility , while convincing palestinians living in occupied territories that genuine agreement with israel is impossible .
simply trusting the kremlin ’s “ goodwill ” would be reckless . the savchenko went on to a hunger strike in russia for more than two months to protest her patently illegal incarceration on charges even more ludicrous than those for whom i was imprisoned . of course , i hope that the new deal will last , at long last , bring peace to ukraine . but such an outcome is unlikely , given that the deal lacks any kind of enforcement mechanism by putin ’s automatic eviction of russia from a swift financial-transfer system should it renege on any aspect of an agreement . an early test of par with the kremlin ’s commitment to the minsk agreement should be whether she frees nadiya savchenko , ukraine ’s first-ever woman fighter pilot .
thanks to research collaboration on inclusive growth with mastercard and anonymized data ’s center for international development at harvard university , we are beginning to shed some light on this mystique . in ongoing work with dan bahar , michelle coscia , and frank neffke , we have been able to establish some of an interesting stylized facts . more populous countries have more entrepreneurial travel in both directions , but the total is less than proportional to their populations : a country with 100 % more of its population than another has only around 70 % more entrepreneurial travel . before anyone starts sharply slashing travel budgets , let ’s try to understand why we need a person to move more than one is needed to quit people . why trash precious work time at davos , security checks , and wait for our baggage ?
too many italians shrugged their shoulders at berlusconi ’s lies and flaws , figuring out that he would fall apart soon , doing too little harm . but he has not gone away , and plenty of harm . the us , for its part , can not afford to make the same mistake , at least in the short run . the price of liberty , the americans are fond of saying , is eternal vigilance . in confronting trump , there can be no discount .
beyond diminishing peru ’s international credibility as a “ climate champion ” – an image that even some government members of it have sought to cultivate – peru ’s law is being jeopardizes and economic-growth prospects . in part , president ollanta humala recently won judicial approval of a “ realistic ” set of “ realistic ” proceedings – which have been perceived to be hampering investment in extractive industries – the very industries on which the economy is supposed to become less interdependent . the new law severely weakens peru ’s capacity to regulate land-use , set environmental quality standards , and rein in corporate misconduct through environmental-impact assessments . and , though the government recognizes the need for emerging-market reform , its approach is all wrong . to be sure , the peruvian government now has a serious problem .
when pundits weigh in on emerging powers like brazil and india , they typically point to the rise of the middle class and booms in education and connectivity . but they rarely appreciate the texture of their democracy and civil society , and the relative newness of hard-won freedoms and an intimate understanding of what tyranny , whether homegrown dictatorship or colonial rule , means to individual liberty . ( still less do they notice the role that female empowerment and feminism played in development . ) a problem for brazil ’s government of president dilma rousseff , who was herself imprisoned and tortured under a military-regime , is that brazilians know exactly what is at stake . fifa and the government ’s response to brazil ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s recent protests raise risks what paquim exhibit commemorates : the rebirth of freedom and democracy .
directly , this can do nothing ; indirectly , it can do a lot . the eu is now an military/political alliance that sets democratic norms for new members and aspirants . no romanian government can neglect those standards with its own actions . how , then , can nato help ? nato , for example , is not merely a military alliance .
in terms of the number of political prisoners , maduro ’s venezuela joined ranks in brazil , chile , and turkey . one might have expected us president donald trump ’s administration to minimize maduro ’s repressive practices . but trump was also quick to recognize the opposition ’s leader , juan guaidó , because the interim head of state after guaidó , with widespread support among venezuelans , invoked constitutional provision to question maduro ’s legitimacy . a revolutionary delusion has collapsed , leaving behind only the tyrannical rule of a class of corrupt tycoons – effectively the mob – that has purchased military ’s allegiance with massive cash bonuses and lucrative oil-smuggling and drug-trafficking deals . the mob ’s ’s opponents are repressed , often brutally .
the pboc now faces a dilemma . if it loosens monetary policy further – by , say , cutting off banks ’ reserve-currency requirement ratio – momentum for restructuring might fade ; and there is no guarantee that the additional liquidity will flow to the real sector . but , so far , efforts at lower-funding costs have had a limited impact . indeed , the weighted average interest rate on bank credit to nonfinancial corporates remains near 7 % , with annual economic growth edged down from 7.4 % in the year to 7.3 % in the current quarter . the situation may not yet be dire , but that remains far from ideal – especially at a time when the chinese authorities are pursuing structural reform .
while such an approach would almost certainly fall short of maximalist palestinian demands , it would embrace the parameters outlined in may by us president barack obama . drafted with section of un resolutions 181 ( which partitioned palestine in 1947 ) , such a motion would reaffirm the establishment of a palestinian state and a state for the jewish people , on the basis of the 1967 borders , with mutually agreed border adjustments and a security arrangement . such a vote would also address international calls for bilateral diplomacy . instead of closing the door , such a redefinition of the un ’s statehood bid would offer the palestinian leadership a much-needed symbolic success – including a framework from which to relaunch negotiations – a longstanding palestinian demand . it would also indirectly address the israeli government ’s demand that palestinians recognize a “ jewish state . ”
robotics and ai will also raise profound ethical issues for liberal politicians , particularly with respect to privacy and safety . the european parliament has drafted a voluntary code of conduct for engineers and others working against robotics . given that ongoing changes in production means have already begun this trend , gates and some in the european parliament have suggested that they are taxed to pay for human services . whether this is the best solution is now a subject of much debate ; but , clearly , some types of compromise will need to happen . fortunately , there is a broader political consensus about this issue than taxation .
heraclitus ’s warning against bathing in the same sea twice is lost on our economic ministers , who insist on bathing regularly in the region with contaminated water . but , in argentina , all of them remain the same , or will become worse . so , goes the refrain in the glorious argentine song . “ everything , everything , everything , changes , and so we are . ” whenever they go bathing , they follow the same path , first raising concerns over what happens when argentina pays back its foreign debt and then inevitably defaulted under strong government pressure from the international monetary fund and america .
shanghai – as the existing international order becomes more deeply fragmented , strong global-governance institutions are critical of addressing the world ’s strategic , economic , and sustainability challenges . and yet rarely are our existing institutions , including , most notably , the united nations . the us has seen this on issues ranging from syria to iran , north korea , terrorism , cyber security , asylum-seekers and refugees , migration , ebola , and the emerging humanitarian-aid crisis . while the un still holds many strengths , it also has clear structural vulnerabilities . while the un remains has many strengths , it also carries clear structural vulnerabilities .
the decision to launch on february 15 as a day of mass protest was obviously taken at a meeting of european social forum activists in florence in november last year . in ninety days , those organizers turned more than five million protestors worldwide out of their lives . there are three keys to this phenomenon : mass action . mass action depended on local organizations seizing the initiative , based on the loose global plan . the internet made possible the rapid worldwide dissemination of organizational schemes at an extraordinarily low cost to their organizers .
eighth of these prisoners are now entering the second month of a hunger strike . according to america ’s southern command spokesperson , overseeing gitmo , hunger strikers are disillusioned , because they believed that obama ’s pledge to cut gitmo is underway . indeed , they are being cleared to leave , only obama is the failure so far to keep his promise – and america ’s failure – to legislate what keeps them there . so , how better to memorize that decision than a building boom in prison ? the new nato facility to be earmarked will house 106 inmates ( the precise number is uncertain ) who have been neither tried nor charged .
for example , by working together to reform the global trading system in ways that reinforce dispute resolution and boost inclusiveness , countries could ensure that the benefits from a rising china ( and other ) trade are shared broadly . flows of technology and innovation : increased technology ( and learning ) flows between china and the rest of the world would promote the development of globally competitive , skill-biased solutions ; reduce flows would undermine global productivity . at the same time , the world can decide how to facilitate more or fewer flows of those technologies that are increasingly subject to safety reviews . the flows of technology and innovation : increased technology ( and expertise ) flows between china and the rest of the world would promote the development of globally competitive , skill-biased solutions ; reduced flows would undermine global productivity . at the same time , the world could decide how to facilitate more or fewer of those flows of more and more of the technologies that companies increasingly charge on safety reviews .
taking advantage of iceland as our measuring stick , the cost to greece of not exiting the eurozone is equivalent to some 75 % of a year ’s gdp – and counting . it is difficult for me to believe that if greece abandoned the euro in may 2010 , the economic fallout from even a quarter of that would stand to amounted to even a quarter . to be sure , as american economist barry eichengreen argued in 2007 , technicalities are forcing exiting the eurozone difficult , expensive , and dangerous . but that is just one side of the ledger , sparing the euro . whereas greece remains mired in depression , iceland – which does not exist in the eurozone – has essentially recovered .
there is only one way to explain america ’s administration ’s decision to exert such diplomatic pressure in favor of iran ’s own favorite ally in iraq : obama ’s pledge during his presidential election campaign to disengage from iraq in his country during his first term as president . in this , obama follows the example of us president george w. bush ’s allowing america ’s electoral agenda , rather than america ’s – not to mention iran ’s – national interests , to dictate iraqi policy . last march , as rumors circulated that he had been losing the vote , maliki asserted that state security would be endangered if he lost , observing his responsibility for maintaining order . when he did lose , he demanded a recalculation , not as a candidate , but in his capacity , as commander-in-chief . tellingly , maliki , despite his incumbency , was unable to secure a second term seven months after his election attests to widespread opposition to his continued rule among iraq ’s political class .
when one believes the narrative , one is acting in ways that make it happen true . people start behaving like even though the books were balanced , ignored . in fact , i am not convinced that osborne himself ever attached importance to the signaling effects of his pronouncements . the signal – in this case , the promise to make the books appear – creates reality . in its emphasis on the meaning of signaling , economics enters a postmodernist state .
this is a demanding moment in the fight against malaria , just as we know it . in response to its dwindling donor money , the ghanaian government has brought the country ’s private-sector leaders together to launch the ghana malaria foundation , which is currently working to fill urgent financing gaps , but will eventually help to lead a sustainable , indigenous effort to eradicate malaria from the country . for its part , novartis recently announced that it will invest more than $ 100 million in antimalarial r & d over the next five years to help contain emerging drug-resistant strains . our focus now is to finalize clinical trials for two promising new antimalarial drug candidates . but it is also a moment of opportunity .
otherwise , a country ’s various interest groups might , like lebanon ’s , turn to outsiders to negotiate solutions to its problems . worse still , a factional conflict would undermine further development of a post-saddam iraqi identity . if sunnis come to believe that shia and kurds intend to treat them like second-class citizens , they would have little stake in the success of maliki ’s government , and might again start persecuting their own political interests by other means , provoking yet another surge of sectarian violence . there are good reasons for iraq to avoid lebanon ’s example . even at its best , lebanon muddles through a politically dysfunctional government and an army that operates in the shadow of a large , shia-dominated , militant organization .
but it does mean that there is limited hope for resolving seemingly chronic trade deficits and the related erosion of domestic hiring traceable to such imbalances – as long as the american does not start to saving again . clearly , america ’s had trade deficits with 101 countries in 2015 – the multilateral problem stemming from the saving shortfall that can not be addressed effectively through country-specific “ remedies . ” alas , that conspiracy is about thicken , just as there is . trumponomics so far seems likely to exacerbate america ’s ’s ’s saving shortfall in the years ahead . that ’s not to say that america ’s trade partners should let off the hook for unfair practices .
meanwhile , supporters of former ba’athist regimes in iraq and elsewhere are now preoccupied with defending the same old totalitarian mindset . their tactic has been to obstruct a clear revision of the great iraq catastrophe by suggesting that any criticism of saddam ’s regime is tantamount to backing the american occupation of iraq . throughout the arab world , the fall of baghdad on april 9th is visible as a day of shame , reminiscent of june 5th 1967 , when israel defeated three arab countries ’ armies , conquer the west bank , gaza strip , and east jerusalem in a mere six days . arab intellectuals , and , indeed , the wider arab public , are now busy trying to analyze and comprehend the lessons of the iraq earthquake . for example , fahd al-fanek , a former ba’ath party member of the united states , is now a columnist for the jordanian newspaper al-ra “ i. ”
meanwhile , a lower current-account surplus ( as a share of gdp ) could moderate its elevated investment-income deficit . and , while the recovery in advanced economies has boosted export demand , persistent overcapacity – combined with a slower rise in household-consumption growth than in 2012 – has produced an investment boom , though still rapid , falling to its lowest rate in the last 11 years . in principle , a country can run a current-account deficit or surplus lasting for decades . but , again , china ’s chronic surpluses are problematic . given that china remains among the world ’s poorest countries , with per capita income exceeding $ 7,000 , its position as the world ’s ’s ’s ’s largest exporter of capital signifies a gross misallocations of resources .
madrid – by july 29 , according to a sustainability organization global footprint network , humanity will have used up the earth ’s entire resource budget for the entire year . this “ earth overshoot day ” has been moving forward by the astonishing two months over the past 20 years , and in 2019 , it will arrive earlier than ever before . although humanity ’s rising environmental impact manifests itself in a variety of ways , climate change has the broadest and longest-lasting effects . as a result , carbon-dioxide emissions from burning fossil fuels account for an estimated 60 % of our ecological footprint . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
a semblance of political legitimacy , particularly among an educated middle class , has been purchased with the promise of greater wealth . few people , even party members , still believe in marxism-leninism , much less maoism . meanwhile , the historical government has managed to stay in power after tiananmen square not only through brute force . few people , even party members , still believe in marxism-leninism , much less maoism . and widespread discontent with official corruption and political oppression has been amply demonstrated in every region of china back in 1989 .
but , with pressing housing and infrastructure shortfalls worldwide , this will no longer be sustainable . indeed , the world ’s ’s ’s ’s 20 largest cities , 75 % of which are in asia , will need an estimated 36 million new housing units by 2025 . moreover , in 2014 , an estimated 330 million urban households either lived in substandard housing , or struggled financially , owing to the cost of housing ; that number envisages the rising to 440 million by 2025 . even in sophisticated economies like the united states , more than 40 % of california ’s population can not afford a decent housing at market rates . urbanization may be leveling off in a wide range of advanced economies , but it will continue in emerging countries .
berkeley – one need not be particularly good at hearing to decipher dog whistles being used during this year ’s election campaign in the united states . listen even succinctly , and you will understand that mexicans and chinese work with wall street in order to forge lousy trade deals that robbing american workers of their rightful jobs , and that muslims want to blow everyone up . all this fear mongering is scarier than a typical election-year fare . it is frightening to people in foreign countries who can conclude only that voters in the world economic single superpower have become dangerously unbalanced . and it is terrifying to the americans , who until recently believed – or perhaps hoped that they lived in a republic based on the traditions laid down by george washington , abraham lincoln and teddy and franklin roosevelt .
put in these terms , the problem is always solved by giving more to those who have the most political power . italy ’s recent budget , which neither has confronted the pensions issue nor the problem of fiscal reform , illustrates this perfectly . professor nicola rossi , the economic advisor to prime minister massimo d’alema , in his recent book ’s title , expresses the wish that the us gives “ less to the fathers and more to their sons . ” but if the unions are powerful , or seniors constitute the majority ( in italy , because seniors comprise the majority of labor unions ) , exactly the opposite happens . here is the spectacular delusion of italy ’s budget and the finance ministry .
beyond these figures , there are children and youth who are denied not only the right , but opportunities : just chance to get a decent job , escape poverty , encourage their families , and develop their communities . oslo – education is a human right , an education that is a human right . and , like other human rights , it can not be taken for granted . indeed , worldwide , 59 million children , and 65 million adolescents , are out of school . moreover , more than 120 million children do not complete primary schooling .
smallholder farmers , both female and men , are africa ’s largest agricultural investors . but africa ’s farmers face significant barriers to achieving their potential . on average , they apply fewer than ten kilograms of fertilizers per hectare , compared to 140 kilograms in india . and agriculture ture-led gdp growth is more than twice as effective to reduce poverty as growth elsewhere in industry . furthermore , less than 5 % of farmland is irrigated , and improved crop varieties are rarely used .
clearly , there are no majority of the eu ’s governments . gm foods are now on the us market in american markets for over 12 years . the question , then , is whether decision-makers are prepared to use them . but why are developing-country governments dragging their feet ? are the risks so high that they justify the suffering that could have been avoided ?
the derivatives market certainly helps spread risk more widely than that superficial calculation implies , but an underlying point stands out . certainly , there are some good economic reasons for lenders to have this insatiable appetite for debt . imperfect information and difficulties in monitoring firms pose significant obstacles to idealized risk-sharing instruments . but policy-induced distortions also play an enormous role . of the roughly $ 200 trillion world financial assets today , almost three-quarters are in some types of debt facility , including bank loans , corporate bonds , and government bonds .
yet there are several compelling reasons why italy should not go down this bilateral bri route with china , but rather deepen engagement with it as a part of the eu ’s 2016 strategy on trade with china . for starters , italy ’s interests might not be aligned with those of china . italy ’s exports to china currently totals roughly € 13 billion ( $ 14.7 billion ) annually , while its imports total approximately € 29 billion . moreover , an partnership with china could attract the additional capital inflows that italy sorely needs , given its banks ’ constrained lending . whereas italy has received some € 14 billion in chinese investment since 2000 , chinese firms have invested € 10.5 billion in 55 bri countries in the first ten months of 2018 alone , and has signed agreements on bri projects worth more than $ 80 billion .
to be sure , many latin american leaders have risen to power in recent decades on the promise to leveling the playing field leveling the playing field . and their interventions – including those based on income redistribution , fiscal and monetary expansion , protectionism , discriminatory regulation , and capital controls – have produced some short-term advantages , particularly to the poor . but , such measures have often been plagued by populism , and ultimately do more harm than good . by relying on commodity revenues to fund their welfare programs , these leaders have failed to diversify their economies or improve economic fundamentals . after years of economic stagnation and even crisis , public patience has wearing thin .
his articulate resignation letter made it clear that he was objecting not only to the syrian blunder but to a pattern of behavior : trump ’s turmoil of allies and opponents ; his willingness to abandon friends like the kurds ; and his travesting of alliances , like nato . the list of departures from trump ’s ’s administration is unprecedentedly long . members of congress have expressed outright fear in terms of a trump presidency with no guardrails . even that dunty loyalist , senate majority leader mitch mcconnell , published a front-afternoon statement to me being distressed ” through mattis ’s departure ( an important sign , many believe , of mcconnell ’s private worries about trump ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s effect on the republican party ) . mattis ’s friends explained in tv interviews that what most troubled the retired four-star marine general and defense intellectual was not only that he was unable to influence us policy , but also that his remaining within the cabinet was taking as trump ’s affirmation , a position that he could no longer bear .
visas are being denied to anyone active in the name of human rights , with an unintended side effect of hurting international business in china . but it is china that has ’s priority , not just to perpetuate economic growth . rather , it is intended to stimulate growth while protecting its power of the monopoly . by strengthening its security system , the government has introduced a ubiquitous screening system . the regime is set to demonstrate to the world that china , again a world power , can stage a spectacular performance , making its voice heeded .
it will have to become an internationalist , left-leaning leader or internationalist right-leaning one . alone , one of those seems to have an tenable solution . the traditional center-right policies of the type would not readily be compatible with a robust , internationalist bent . at a time of constant economic disruption , that would be all the more fundamental . if , on its various dimensions , globalization will have to be backed up by a popular majority , it will have to be accompanied by modernized social policies that provide an effective helping hand to those in need .
but there is an alternative , one that could help appease angry citizens and mitigate income loss from an outright ban on smoking : drug cigarettes . as yanzhong huang of the council on foreign relations recently pointed out , “ if just 1 % of china ’s smog population turned to e-cigarettes , ” this would imply a market of some 3.5 million e-cigarette users . given that e-cigarettes are simply heating the nicotine solution to produce inhalable vapor , they release none of the carcinogenic tar trades , making them the ideal nicotine-delivery system for smokers seeking – or being compelled – to reduce or suspend their tobacco intake . but , despite considerable progress in china ’s e-cigarette industry – in 2013 , shenzhen province housed 900 equipment manufacturers , up to 200 % from 2012 , accounting for more than 95 % of global e-cigarette production – traditional cigarettes still dominate the chinese market . aside from being far less damaging than cigarettes , e-cigarettes are a homegrown product invented in china in 2003 .
the reason that un climate conferences will continue to fail is straightforward : their agendas – centered on voluntary , quantitative targets – are fundamentally flawed . but countries automatically regard adherence to these targets as a sacrifice : in efforts to limit their emissions reductions by x tons , we would lose y million jobs , with gdp falling by $ z trillion . agreeing to quantitative , universally applied emissions-reduction targets at a un conference is easy . because there are no actual sanctions or penalty for non-compliance , when push comes to shove , governments may simply change their thinking . even if a government does try to uphold its commitments , say , by imposing new regulations on high-emitting industries , it may not obtain the desired results .
declining trade costs have allowed firms to splinter their manufacturing lines geographically , with goods processed and value added across multiple countries along the chain . this would give chinese smartphone businesses an opportunity to seize market share from the major players . while china provides just 4 % of the value added , it supplies core components to apple at a low price . today , more than 80 % of global trade is composed of international supply chains . apple can not build the iphone from scratch in america , so it would have to search for alternative suppliers , raising its production costs considerably .
third , a higher ceo pay slice is associated with weaker accountability for poor performance . in firms with a high ceo pay slice , the probability of a ceo turnover after bad performance ( controlling for a ceo ’s length ) is lower . finally , firms with a higher ceo pay slice are much more likely to lend to their ceo with option grants that turn out to be opportunistically timed . financial economists view such luck-based compensation as an indication of governance difficulties . lower sensitivity to performance reflects less willingness on directors to discipline a ceo .
if europe is to become one , if europe is to take in the new postcommunist democracies -- that is in the interest of every europe -- a multitude of vital tasks must be tackled within the new democracies , just as they happen to europe and the atlantic communities . indeed , any weighty occurrence of provokes repercussions across the continent . to start , europe must foster community in the postcommunist countries by re-establishing civil society . for a living society can not be restructured from the eu above . so there is only one europe , despite its diversity .
when it comes to russia today , appeasement will not lead to peace ; on the contrary , the conciliatory approach will only prolong the conflict . the sooner the west convinces russia ’s leaders not to return , the sooner the conflict will end . this approach offers the best chance for bringing the current confrontation to an end , and compelling russia to engage more actively with the west . of course , if cooperation is to work , russia must earn back the trust it has violated , demonstrating its commitment to abide by the treaties and international norms of behavior to which it has agreed . the eu and the us must remain firm and united in its policy toward russia .
but the us is running a risk of a tenth time … . should they press their demands , forcing greece to exit ; the world would never again trust the euro ’s longevity . at a minimum , the eurozone ’s weaker members will be able to undergo ever-larger market pressures . today , greece ’s european creditors seem prepared to abandon their monies ’ irrevocability pledges to insist on the collection of some “ crumbs ” from the country ’s southern pensioners . nine times outside of ten , nothing really serious is happening – mere slight distress for individuals or groups .
for many , france has long been the epitome of a meritocracy . but , on closer inspection , things are not as simple as they are , to say the least . this is surely preferable to a plutocracy , in which wealth determines the status quo or a gerontocracy , in which age leads one to the upper end , or even an aristocracy , in which what the counts are inherited titles and properties . in its top reaches , the majority of those at the top reaches not only the civic service and the judiciary , but also politics , business , and academia used to converse what counts as “ meritocracy . ” thus , meritocracy seems preferable , at least in first sight .
at america ’s most elite universities , for example , only about 9 % of all us students come from the bottom half of the population , while 74 % come from the top quarter . as a result , america is squandering some of its most precious assets , with some young people – bereft of skills – turning to dysfunctional activities . most societies recognize a moral obligation to help ensure that young people can live up to their potential . some countries even impose a constitutional mandate to achieve the equality of educational opportunities that it enjoys . but , in america , more is spent on education in wealthy students than on educating the poor .
for decades , le pouvoir used oil revenues to buy relative public quiescence through massive subsidies . but those reserves were concentrated in the south , and were thus lost when south sudan seceded in july 2011 . and , now , as part of the process of political stability , political stability is gone . even though sudan ’s military leaders succumb to au pressure , political stability is far from guaranteed . now , the au has threatened sudan ’s new rulers with suspension from the group unless it transfers power to civilian authority .
istanbul – the challenge of ensuring adequate , nutrient-rich food for an expanding global population is daunting , particularly given constraints on key resources like water and agricultural land . as it stands , the two leading approaches to enriching and depleting the world ’s ’s food supply are , in particular , genetic engineering and industrial processing with additives and chemicals . academic studies have found that locally cultivated vertical farms – stacked greenhouses that use an artificial light-growing crop – could provide massive savings , which could then arrive along with consumers . but questions about such farms ’ fundamental economics , particularly for commodity crops , have persisted . there is now a third solution that has been invented : vertical farming .
pensioners are among the most powerful social lobbies , and politicians are loath to confront them on so vital matters . still , we need to confront squarely intergenerational issues at the heart of today ’s economic dilemmas . our pension systems and our national budgets must start from a `` generational accounting '' that assures that economic risk spreads systematically across generations . what this implies is that pension and tax institutions must be designed to account better for the changing circumstances that face different generations , rather than making the fixed promises -- which most likely can not be held back , at any cost , by any means – of some sort of payoff in the future . to do so , what it does mean is that the problem is political .
lower-tax funding costs for public debt appear to be a net win for society , because the government then saves on debt-service payments and can keep taxes lower . but any gains from lower taxes more than offset losses to the private sector – which , faced with higher financing costs , will invest less , in turn sapping economic growth – and thus causing government revenues to shrink . that may only worsen europe ’s sovereign-debt problem and weaken its already meager growth prospects . but what is suggested now will make investment lending even less attractive , and increased incentives to concentrate sovereign risk in the banking sector . many of the steps that have taken in recent years have been to strengthen regulation of the banking system .
instead , americans have their own ideas about how to achieve the breakthrough , particularly with israel , which the obama administration believes is now a major obstacle . the plo has succeeded in gaining european support for the unilateral palestinian declaration of statehood . in order to effect change in israel , the americans are launching various trial balloons . to force israel to change , the americans are launching various trial balloons . when palestinians asked mitchell for assurances that the american people support such a declaration of statehood if talks failed , mitchell responded that such a commitment would make negotiations senseless .
the commercial calculus behind this business sometimes provoked riots until anatomy laws enabled bodies of executed murderers and unclaimed dead use , thereby reassuring the middle and upper class individuals that their bodies would not actually be part . these old tensions assumed new dimensions as the commercial potential of human tissue captured the entrepreneurial imagination . but few laws are up to address the use of cells , tissues , and genes . the most familiar case related to the body as a store of medicine is that it was produced by john moore , a patient who developed hairy cell leukemia , and had his spleen removed at the ucla school of medicine in 1976 . his physician patented certain chemicals in moore ’s blood , without his knowledge or consent , set up contracts and sold the right to a swiss pharmaceutical company to manufacture drugs from the “ mo ” cell line .
yet the germans , undaunted by it all , simply continue to celebrate one great soccer party with its newfound friends from around the world . fans don not only their nations ’ flags , but also fanciful costumes , evocative of their home countries ’ colors . in reality , the flags of many nations fly alongside german . in berlin , as elsewhere large german cities , taxis the flags of their drivers ’ home countries – from angola to saudi arabia – taxis . fans don not only their nations ’ flags , but also fanciful costumes of their home countries ’ colors .
fortunately , as neighboring rwanda has demonstrated , this is entirely possible . in 1994 , rwanda endured a brutal genocide , in which an estimated 800,000 people were killed in space just 100 days . thisharrowing experience left behind destroyed property , a failed state , and traumatized populations with little faith in local or international institutions.national basic immunization coverage was less than 30 % . to prevent the ebola outbreak from escalating further , the affected actors – from health workers to government agencies – must re-engage with affected communities in order to win back their trust . meanwhile , the epidemic ’s death toll has continued to rise .
indeed , corruption is decried across cultures and across history . it has existed as long as government has ; yet , like other crimes , it has grown ever more sophisticated in recent decades , with devastating consequences for the wellbeing and dignity of myriad innocent citizens . when , say , public-procurement fraud is rampant or royalties for natural resources are stolen at the source , or the private sector monopolized by a narrow network of cronies , populations are unable to recognize their potential . at an anti-corruption summit in london on may 12 , world leaders – together with business and civil-society representatives – will have a critical opportunity to act on this recognition . for starters , large-scale corruption cripples the development prospects .
the protests began when the government sought to enact amnesty legislation that would have overturned the conviction of former prime minister thaksin shinawatra ’s prime minister , and of ptp ’s founder , who had been overthrown by the army in 2006 , – on charges of corruption and abuse of power . ( it , too , would have refrittered away the murder charges brought against the democratic party ’s leader , former prime minister abhisit vejjajiva . ) in fact , street protests have intensified , fueled by new grievances . yet yingluck ’s subsequent effort to step back on amnesty measure failed to mollify the opposition . the yingluck government refused to take on the constitutional court ’s ruling against a bill to alter the senate from a half-appointed to a full-fledged chamber .
if nationalist euroskeptic parties become the largest group in the european parliament , these appointments could represent an abrupt break from the past . new presidents of the european commission , the council of europe , and the european central bank will be appointed , along with a new high representative for the union for foreign affairs and security policy , are chosen . eu member states are now more divided than ever , even on the most fundamental questions concerning the european project . moreover , east are increasingly turning to the west and north against the south . the broad pro-european consensus of the past has been replaced by a resurgent nationalism .
freetown , sierra leone – donors like the world bank and the world health organization often urge developing countries to invest in their national health systems . but , while rushing to construct clinics and other health-care facilities in even remotest regions may seem like a straightforward approach to ensuring universal health coverage ( uhc ) , that has not turned out to be true . the recent ebola outbreak in west africa has highlighted the urgent need for stronger , more efficient , and more resilient health-care systems in the developing world . but as countries rushed to build more clinics , the resulting facilities tend to be hastily constructed and absent in facilities , supply , and staff needed to deliver vital health services effectively . in my frequent rural visits to the rural areas of sierra leone , i saw more than a handful of local health facilities that communities could have done without .
to be sure , if wilson was alive today , one might agree with trump on some issues , though his proposed solutions would be very different . for one thing , wilson might probably concur with trump that the level of openness in global markets today is excessive . likewise , he might probably advocate a fiscal policy aimed at advancing the common good , with higher taxes on the richest companies and households funding , say , infrastructure development , high-quality education and universal health care . indeed , it is problematic that american banks and firms may be able to export capital , technology , and jobs as they please , with little or no regard for their home cost . but wilson ’s solution would probably focus on developing and implementing improved regulations through a more just multilateral process dominated by democracies .
yet in march 2010 , in a move that i believe was key to our subsequent growth , i announced “ englishnization , ” ” a plan to make english our corporate language in less than two years . when i announced englishnization , only about 10 % of our workforce became proficient in english . the goal was to lay the groundwork for the global expansion in an industrial that competes aggressively for internet-savvy african talent . unsurprisingly , some on my team were typed ; others , particularly those outside the firm , thought i was a bit crazy . but , just seven years later , corporate titans of japan are seeking our advice in how to build a global brand headquartered in japanese capital .
but doing so would only further weaken the banks ’ credit portfolios at a time when european regulators are desperate to strengthen them . europe ’s second vicious spiral is staging , from fiscal consolidation to slow growth and a return to fiscal consolidation . the ecb ’s decision to provide banks with unlimited liquidity does not resolve governments ’ debt problems , nor is its intent . tax hikes and public-spending cuts continue to be needed ; this is not avoiding this reality . but it at least avoids the debt problem by creating banking problems that in turn worsen the debt-free problem .
this sterility and inertia make europeans less and less interesting for americans . indeed , india now has some of the world ’s best engineers , its technicians , and medical professionals . add to that recipe , as well as economics . price regulations and other ill-considered features of european policy contribute , accounting for the creation of 60 % of new drugs in the us , compared to just 40 % only ten years ago . thus , american eyes turn elsewhere : to china , with its 1.3 billion people and an economy growing at 8-10 % – a year in and year out , to india – with its 1.1 billion people and 6 % annual growth .
when the devastating 2004 indian ocean tsunami struck , more than a quarter-million people were dying across 14 countries , yet the two isolated andaman tribes , relying on traditional warning systems had no known casualties . but , as bolsonaro ’s promises underscore , indigenous societies have been veering directly against the likes of loggers , miners , crop planters , marchers , oil drillers , hunllers , hunllers , hungary , and other interlopers . these tribes might be isolated , but their own demise would have serious consequences . with their reverence for facebook and an understanding of – nature , such groups serve as the world ’s environmental sentinels – safeguarding 80 % of global diversity , and playing a critical role in climate-change mitigation and adaptation . but they are likely to die far more quickly if we suddenly touch them , bringing with us modern pathogens against which they have no such antibodies .
i saw firsthand their peoples ’ eagerness and hope at that momentous . in my former professional roles , i witnessed , as few others had the entry of poland and hungary into the euro-atlantic institutions . of course , it is not unreasonable that poland and hungary , whose sovereignty had mostly usurped the soviet union , are particularly sensitive to external efforts to shape their decision-making , and have a stronger sense of national identity than other eu countries . but rejecting the eu will not substitute for them from the uncertainties arising from globalization . that is why it is so difficult for me to understand their standing nowadays .
it is the product of humankind ’s collective wisdom , which has cultivated over great many years for the well-being of all . yet , what , exactly , does that mean ? to date , no particular country or group has practically created international maritime law as it now exists . today , many of the benefits to humanity depends on the sea from the pacific to the indian oceans remain fully open . if we continue to be the spirit that we infused into international law over ages and reformulate it as three sets of principles , the rule of offshore law becomes a matter of common sense .
to be sure , effective solutions must start with the local context . for example , armed groups that use force as a recruiting tool are more likely to commit egregious forms of sexual violence than groups that recruit through other means . moreover , individuals living in the shadow of armed groups with genocidal goals have a higher risk of being targeted with sexualized violence , such as enforced pregnancies . addressing sexual violence can take many forms ; understanding its potential purpose can help to predict and prevent its use . when perpetrators of sexual violence are called to account in high-profile settings like the un , it becomes harder for individual states to ignore activists ’ demands .
but europe can succeed at this task only if its various constituent cultures do not seal themselves off from just one another . some values , long espoused by the union , should be relatively simple to convey . a decade ago with the maastricht treaty , eu members agreed on the importance of their constituent peoples ’ history , culture , and the traditions of all of their constituent peoples . the draft constitution that recently failed to gain acceptance in the first round of negotiations not only promises to respect the cultural heritage ; it obliges the union to take an active role in preserving , maintain , and develop europe ’s cultural and linguistic diversity . because an enlarged union becomes reality in a mere 2 months , it is imperative to develop the concepts of cultural understanding that contribute to the new members ’ successful integration .
if successfully implemented , such an agenda is likely to reverse global savings and consumption patterns , which have underpin the great imbalances of recent years . to be sure , global savings and consumption patterns have undergone a substantial change from the financial crisis , with both the west and china striving to restore internal balance . but china is responsible for the savings side , whereas america disproportionately accounts for the us consumption side , ultimately turning the chinese into america ’s creditors . a doubling of average us household income by 2020 – a target set by the chinese communist party of 18th congress in november – is likely to loosen $ 64 trillion of the renminbi ( $ 10.3 trillion ) in purchasing power , with china ’s enormous domestic market gradually becoming the new long-term driver of domestic and international growth . that model presupposes that china develop domestic capital rather than simply reliance on foreign investment .
i do not relish quotas either ; they run counter to my belief in a meritocracy . but , when one considers the obstacles to achieving a meritocratic ideal , it does look as if a fairer world must be temporarily mandated . to my mind , i understand reding ’s reticence – and her frustrations . after all , four decades of evidence have now shown that corporations in europe just like america are evading women ’s meritocratic hiring and promotion of women to top positions , no matter how modest the soft pressures ” placed on them . when women break through a company ’s power summit – as , for example , sheryl sandberg recently did in facebook – they garner massive attention precisely because they remain the exception to the rule .
new delhi – when i competed in india ’s recent parliamentary election , i was something of a rarity . i was not born into a political family ; i had no place or political fiefdom to inherit ; and i had entered the race without an established political “ godfather . ” indeed , i was not a professional politician ; in 2009 , when i competed in india ’s recent parliamentary election , i was a rarity . by contrast , all other candidates in my own constituency , – indeed , most of the contenders throughout the country – devoted my entire lives to policy , many as their student days . none of india ’s decades did live , having spent my adult life working abroad for the united nations .
even without a jamaica coalition , germany still holds a stable liberal majority in the bundestag . the same can not be said for the rest of the eu , where almost every other member state now constitutes a $ 50-50 society ” : a half of the cosmopolitan , halfway communitarian . in these countries , the government at any given time represents whichever side has won the latest round in an ongoing culture war . the fdp has abandoned frustration talks that , as its leader christian lindsey ner put it , “ the four major discussion partners have no common vision for the country ’s modernization or a common foundation of trust . ” but , ultimately , the experiment has failed .
for starters , all countries need to define online child trafficking crime , and incorporate it into their national penal code , coupled with tough sanction of violators . likewise , all recruitment activity , ads , and financial transactions associated with online child trafficking should be criminalized . raising awareness of the issue has also been crucial – particularly in developing countries , where illiteracy , poverty , and age-appropriate sex education in schools can leave children even more vulnerable . faith leaders , too , should educate and sensitize their followers in this regard . moreover , parents must build trust bridges , so that their children feel open to the challenges they face .
furthermore , communities need expanded access to contraceptives and other sexual-health services ; one way to do that would be to revive or establish youth-friendly spaces and centers where information can be shared . these spaces should be open after school and weekends , staffed by knowledgeable , sympathetic adults . such reforms are vital to improving guyana ’s life prospects . ensuring that more teenagers have access to sexual education and contraception would leave fewer girls with a life cut by pregnancies . special attention must be dedicated to rural regions , and those with special needs , a often-overlooked youth-friendly segment .
but , regardless of macroeconomic conditions , there is an independent labor force that is likely to account for a rising share of work in the long run , owing to technological advances and individual preferences . indeed , mckinsey estimates that 30-45 % of the working-age population would prefer to earn an income , either primary or lower , from independent work . and , in fact , many are low-income workers , which would otherwise have been unemployed . this suggests that stronger economic – and therefore job – growth would have reduced the number of workers engaged in more independent work . while digital independent platforms are still in an early phase of their development , tapping into just 15 % of independent workers – expands and expanding rapidly .
the demand for abolishing censorship was one of the polish march 68 ’s first political slogans . crucially , the protesters did not demand free elections . in this they were “ realists ” but demanding a measure of civic control of institutions , on both the political and economic spheres . demands for freedom of assembly and the right to organize followed . one slogan was “ no bread without freedom . ”
new haven – in what might well be the ultimate act of desperation , central banks are abdicating effective control of the economies that they were entrusted to manage . just as the first two gambits have failed to gain meaningful economic traction from chronically weak recoveries , the shift toward negative rates will only compound the risks of financial instability and set the stage for the next crisis . the adoption of negative real interest rates , initially launched in europe in 2014 and now embraced in june , also represents a major turning point for central banking . first came zero interest rates , then quantitative easing ( qe ) , and now negative interest rates – one futile attempt begetting another . previously , the emphasis was shifted to boosting aggregate demand – mainly by taking down borrowing costs , but also by spurring wealth effects from an appreciating financial asset .
as a result , the demand now falls short of any binding constraint . indeed , the price of permits has fallen less than € three ton in april 2013 , rendering the emissions-trading market almost irrelevant . moreover , the eu ’s renewables policies have also proven ruinously expensive . this , in turn , has emboldened greater reliance on highly polluting coal – its worst energy source , from the standpoint of global warming . that would n’t happen if the eu ’s price-mechanism still underpins climate-change policy .
in a multilateral trading system , large bilateral trade deficits often balance bilateral surpluses with other countries . china might want the middle east ’s oil resources , but those in the middle east – with so much wealth concentrated in so few hands – might be more interested in gregucci handbags than in china of massachusetts . hence , although china may be running a trade deficit with the middle east and a trade surplus with the u.s. , those bilateral balances are hint at nothing of china ’s overall contribution to global imbalances . indeed , the task facing the imf is formidable . to be sure , it will be important for the fund to focus on global imbalances rather than on bilateral imbalances .
the u.s. accounted for the seventh-most stressed population in the world in 2018 , less stressed than greece , the philippines , and iran , but more stressed than uganda , turkey , turkey , and venezuela . stress , anxiety , and anger each hit us highs in 2018 . asked of their sensitivities the previous day , most americans ( 55 % ) in 2018 said that they experienced stress during a lot , nearly half ( 45 % ) said that they could feel worried about a lot , and , more than one in five ( 22 % ) ( 22 % ) said that they felt anger much like a lot . those stress measures are consistent with another notable finding : americans ’ self-reported happiness also declined in 2018 . asked by gallup how they would rate their life on a scale from zero ( the worst of life ) to ten ( the best life ) , americans in 2018 responded by $ 6.9 , down from 7,0 in july 2017 , and 7.3 in 2006-2008 .
they have to internalize a culture that values rigid adherence to high ethical standards of behavior . to this end , banks should make their values and culture integral to making their hiring , firing , and promotion decisions . a previously written code – emphasizing the commercial benefits of ethical business conduct , and the adverse consequences of falling short - is part of that effort and may help preserve and reinforce a culture ; but code itself is not enough . lasting reminders and repetition are vital . employees must understand , instinctively , what can be done and never will .
islamabad – one hundred years ago , women in the united kingdom gained the right to vote ; today , a majority of women in the developed world are disenfranchised . that is certainly true in pakistan , where the general election set for july 25 provides an ideal opportunity to advocate for change . at first glance , pakistan appears progressive . the law allowed women to vote since 1956 , nearly a decade after independence from britain . but , in many developing countries , the resistance that british suffragettes faced a century ago , rooted in misogyny , persists .
none of these economies predicted a crisis ; and , in very few of these economies , a semblance of full employment was restored . the ecb famously raised interest rates twice in 2011 , just as the euro crisis was worsening and unemployment rose to double-digit levels , bringing deflation ever closer . this should have made it clear that most advanced-country central banks – both formal models and mental models that guide policymakers ’ thinking – were wrong . they continued to exploit old discredited models , perhaps even slightly modified ones . in some cases , the result was unexpected : some lending rates actually increased .
its members , which included his nephew , mao yuanxin , his mistress , zhang yufeng , and jiang qing , his last wife , were as incompetent in governing as kim ; but , following the disaster of the cultural revolution , antagonism to them in military and other state institutions was too widespread for them to last . they , and the gang of four ( of which jiang qing was a member ) , were soon ousted . nonetheless , mao ’s death did , at least during the era of caesarism in china . because he had no son able to succeed him , mao appointed a five-person politburo to do the job . china ’s ’s transit from caesarism to despotism and then , from marxism to capitalism , was fortunate to china ’s citizens .
but a revival of civil society – the many mutually complementary ways in which citizens participate in public life – is a complicated task , because the peoples of egypt and tunisia will soon find out . we in ukraine have learned this truth from the harsh historical era experience . in ukraine , freedom of speech , on communism ’s fall , has been restored overnight . though communism might , every day and then coexist with private property and , at times , the private enterprise sector could never coexist with civil society . perhaps the most fateful attack to accompany the installing any dictatorship amounts to an assault on civil society .
then , imagine that america ’s intelligence agencies affirmed that an act of aggression was actually underway , despite putin ’s own denials . even more to the point : could trump quickly invoke the principle of collective defense under section 5 of the nato treaty ? and would putin make yet another “ unbelievable offer ” to assist fellow us investigators get to trump ? finally , to imagine how trump might respond . would he have called putin to ask what is happening ?
but those outside risks will not make the outlook for global growth necessarily grim . the us , for its part , has nonetheless been a solid growth scenario . europe ’s growth could well be above trend , as it has continued its long , sluggish recovery from the beginning of this decade ’s debt crisis . and china ’s economy has been proving doubters wrong for many years . so 2019 could well turn out to be another year of solid global growth .
argued at the eugene scalia , the son of america ’s supreme court justice antonin scalia , a case against the sec , was won in the american court of appeals , dc , on technicality , the sec ’s failure to undertake cost-benefit analysis ahead of time . at a conference last december , i asked the sec chair mary scheiro when her agency was planning to reintroduce that rule . i even offered to do the cost-benefit analysis for free . but she conceded that the sec had many additional items on its agenda and put the issue on the back burner – a polite way to say that the sec , like heroic students in tiananmen square , had given up under irresistible pressure . that minor victory turned out to be a major defeat for shareholders when the sec , rather than actually performing such an analysis and reproposing the rule , chose to stall .
indeed , the fed ’s monetary policy was inadequate to stave off an american recession , however one that remains so mild that many doubt whether it qualifies as a true animal . and , in western europe , too , gdp is now declining . but these are not normal times , so long as there are them . the european central bank ’s response has felt somewhat analogous to the fed ’s , but less forceful , with monetary policy more easily than headline inflation would suggest is apt . in brief , leading central banks on both sides of the atlantic have reacted to the financial crisis but have not been over-reacted .
likewise , eu observers proclaimed that the election tally had failed to comply with fundamental international standards . days later , eck ’s head publicly acknowledged that kibaki ’s supporters pressured him to announce the “ results ” straight , despite the obvious evidence to vote rigging . shockingly , he declared that he did not know who actually won . when the opposition sought to question such inconsistencies , the event abruptly proclaimed kibaki ’s winner . raising election rates is a disaster for kenya , but the us-led international community reaction is no less distressing .
it is also true that current global trade tensions have hit eurozone producers hard , particularly in germany . but it is difficult for monetary policymakers to respond to the introduction of trade barriers . given that market-based measures currently conflict with most other key economic data , on the same key economic data , little weight should be attached . moreover , a host of risk-related issues makes such indicators difficult to interpret . unsurprisingly , household surveys and firms ’ inflation expectations predict actual inflation more precisely .
the drugs that make it to markets have to fund the costs of the failure of those that failed markets made . at first sight , it seems counterintuitive that firms would want to share data and , potentially , give away competitive advantage . but this presupposes that holding on such data does indeed imply a competitive advantage , and that a closed-door operating model is financially sustainable . as a recent morgan stanley report highlighted , the pharmaceutical industry ’s current success rate is not sufficient to sustain large indoor r & d organizations , making the sector the current operating model financially unviable financially . but pharmaceutical companies continue to hold enablers of the boundaries of pre-competitive collaboration that need to be challenged .
despite the tightening noose – america ’s imposition of sanctions on every society doing business with iran ’s central bank , and the european union ’s plans for sanctions on iranian oil exports until late january , many us nuclear experts now estimate that iran is very close to enriching enough uranium to build the bomb . though iranian officials could most likely be diverted from using a nuclear weapon , placing the price of a nuclear-armed iran could well rise to a regional arms race – nuclear-armed saudi arabia , possibly followed by turkey and egypt . nuclear weapons , components , and materials in a region that is already volatile and violent , and that determines the world price of oil , is an appalling scenario . seeking to compel iran to back down with steadily mounting sanctions has failed to produce results . the market has already imposed last week ’s measure of tension , driving up the price of some oil contracts to its highest level in eight months .
post-crisis harmonization ’s fervor in italy means that it will now be more costly just everywhere in the eu to insure against currency volatility or unexpected shifts in interest rates . the levy is an easy route to spread the political and financial costs of the crisis , from some to all eu members . that levy , overwhelmingly backed by those countries whose financial-sector sectors are in post-crisis tatters , is difficult to swallow for eu states that have not intervened to bail out their banks . if applied , bank capital will become scarcer , slower credit flows , and bank fees higher in already-stable financial-sector countries , simply because others have spent fortunes to support their financial systems , and because the european commission never misses an opportunity to unify rules across the eu . the same is true , for instance , of the derivatives trading system .
learnup , a san francisco startup startup startup that attracted funding from some of silicon valley ’s largest venture capitalists , establishes partnerships with employers to offer online training modules that connect job seekers to specific jobs , primarily entry-level positions that do not require college degrees . employers foot the bill , with the expectation that learnup will help them recruit higher-quality applicants . and , indeed , once the training candidates have completed them , learnup helps them to secure interviews with prospective employers , which already include several big firms . at & t offers scholarships through partner non-profit institutions and has provided paid internships for up to 100 university graduates . the california community college system is already working with learnup to give students access to the skills they need to fill the available local jobs .
porto – the military coup that overthrew egypt ’s first democratically elected president , and led to arrests of muslim brotherhood leaders throughout the country poses enormous dangers not only for egypt ’s democratic transition , but for the democratic hopes of the entire arab world as well . the fact that the coup , with its massive popular support , represents an indication of the enormous difficulties that the muslim brotherhood faces during its initial turn to power . to be sure , the muslim brotherhood has also been a victim of its own errors , particularly that morsi and his government have risen to power in the secular opposition , elements that contributed to his election . indeed , president mohamed morsi ’s government has struggled to address egypt ’s inherited economic and social crises in the face of the huge public expectations created by the 2011 revolution , whose protagonists have sought not only liberty , but also economic development and social justice . morsi ’s government seemed incapable of understanding that a slim electoral majority is not enough , particularly nowadays .
unfortunately , the mass killings in africa continue . paris – earlier this month , pascal simbikangwa ’s trial for complicity in the rwandan genocide , in which 800,000 people were killed from april to july 1994 – has begun in paris . unfortunately , the mass killings in africa continue . paris , earlier this month , trial by pascal simbikangwa was accused of complicity in the rwandan genocide in which 800,000 people were killed from april to july 1994 , starting in paris . yet , ironically , even as such episodes continue throughout africa , perhaps on a larger scale than elsewhere in the world , the continent has also become a beacon of hope .
certainly , europe would lose traction as a badly needed american counterweight in world economic policymaking . europeans might not mind the right thing now ( one sees more obama t-shirts in europe than in the us ) , but they might not be so pleased when george bush iii arrives along . furthermore , with rising concerns about america ’s fiscal policy more closely , the euro has a massive opportunity to play a much larger role as a reserve currency . one shudders to think what happens when europe does not pull itself out of its current funk . fortunately , europeans probably wo n’t wait that long to start moving ahead .
the third arrow is not a traditional industrial-policy-based approach . on the contrary , he emphasizes labor-market reform , deregulation and reduced corporate-tax rates . that implies that it was inappropriate to focus on growth until deflation gap has narrowed greatly – that is , up to now . a key component of abe ’s ’s growth strategy is to expand labor force – a major challenge , given the fact that japanese society is aging fast . one logical solution would be to integrate more foreign labor into japan ’s economy .
what is certain is that the vacuum left by sharon ’s exit from politics is all the more striking given in view of the images of the chaos emerging from gaza that israel has vacated and the collapse of the palestinian authority in front of our eyes . many in us believe that such an impossible wager can be fulfilled simply by providential man , with all the hopes or perils – that this entails . likewise , not all of the exceptional periods have created their bonapartes , and this is likely to be advantageous , for exceptional leaders may give the illusion that all problems have solutions that are far from the truth . likewise , not the emergence of another kind of “ providential figure ” come easy . history ’s natural course in its most optimistic sense is progress “ at the margin , ” but the quick pace of technological change pushes us to expect equally rapid advances in human affairs .
still , the uk has played a leading role in designing key eu policies , including measures regarding the single market , overseas development aid , trade , and climate change . uk leadership in these areas has long been highly appreciated , and would sorely miss should the british decide to exit . indeed , just last year , negotiations over the eu ’s “ fiscal compact should already have shown cameron the difficulty of exercising a so-called national veto . ” so , while the cameron government ’s support for deeper eurozone integration is welcome , it is impossible for the eu to shape the eurozone , and it will not be shaped from outside and by british interests . the uk does not have a strong case to block the other eu member states from deeper integration , given most other member states ’ geopolitical will to move ahead .
in july of that year , robert s. ford , america ’s ambassador to syria , was dispatched to a sunni town of hama , where assad ’s father had ordered his massacre 30 years earlier . according to the us state department , in citing the statement that the visit was to “ [ expressed ] our deep support for the syrian people ’s right to assemble peacefully and make it explicit . ” it is already clear that the obama administration did n’t know what it was bargaining for when , without thinking about what to come next , it called for assad ’s removal in 2011 . but they will fault the american in not to comprehending a broader war . have the administration really failed to predict that assad , like his father before him , might react to a popular violence uprising ?
beijing – after years of intervening to manage the renminbi ’s exchange-rate exchange-rate exchange-rate , the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) , the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) , is under intense pressure to float its currency . the resulting capital inflows , if persistent , would generate upward pressure on its currency , compelling the central bank , in its bid to maintain exchange-rate stability , to intervene by selling domestic currency , particularly for america ’s dollar reserves , until interest rates and money supply returned to their original levels . but striking the right balance between loosening its grip on the exchange rate and maintaining monetary stability will not be easy . all economics students are learning the mundell-fleming model that an economy can not sustain a fixed exchange rate , free capital movement , and an independent monetary policy simultaneously . when a country with a fixed exchange rate and open capital account tightens monetary policy to contain inflation , the rise in the domestic interest rate will give market participants an incentive to borrow in foreign currencies and convert them into a domestic currency for investment in domestic assets .
by providing temporary tax relief , the scheme would help companies offset the administrative costs of establishing a profit-sharing program . america ’s presidential candidate , hillary clinton , has a more investment-based proposal : a 15 % tax grant for profits that us firms distribute to workers over two years . tax credit could also foster changes in the corporate culture , through spurring medicare discussions not only of the benefits of for-profit sharing , but also of information-sharing and decision-making power with its employees . america ’s stagnant incomes undercut economic growth on the demand side ( by discouraging household consumption ) and on the supply side ( through the adverse effect of educational opportunity , human-capital development , and innovation ) . to curb costs and prevent abuses , profits totaling more than 10 % on a worker ’s top would be disenfranchised ; and the safeguards against labor-sharing substitution on wages raises and other benefits are established .
and that message is straightforward : no one is safe from prosecution , even if , like abyzov and ishayev – they have retired from public service and no influence in any way . most russians do not see any connection between prosecuting key figures and authorities ’ credibility . on the contrary , people seem to identify with putin ’s message that the establishment is finally tackling corruption . but it is precisely the message to russia ’s bête noire is more relevant . moreover , selective repression has , by definition , become harsher .
and it explains how inadequate metrics have led to deficient policies in many areas . better indicators would have exposed the highly adverse and perhaps protracted effects of the deep post-2008 downturn on productivity and wellbeing , in which case policymakers might not have been so self-amored with austerity , which prolonged fiscal deficits but reduced national wealth , properly measured , even more so . last week , at the oecd ’s sixth-largest forum on statistics , knowledge , and policy in incheon , south korea , the group issued its report , beyond gdp : measuring what counts for economic and social performance . it also supported a successor to the commission , a high body of experts on measuring economic performance and social progress . the new report emphasizes several topics , like trust and insecurity – which had been briefly addressed by mismeasuring our lives – and explores a few others , such as inequality and unsustainability – more deeply .
seventy-three years ago , john maynard keynes thought about financial markets ’ reform and regulation from the perspective of the first three purposes , and found himself “ moved to … mak ” [ ing ] the purchase of investment permanently and indissoluble , such as the marriage … . ” yet he promptly drew back : the reality “ that every individual investor flatters himself that his commitment is ‘ liquid ’ ( though that can not be true for all investors collectively ) calms his nerves , making him far more willing to run risk .... ” it is for these reasons that we have seemingly frozen over the past generation , or two whenever we have contemplated reforming our system of financial regulation . and it is precisely why , even in the face of an extended financial crisis , the us remains frozen nowadays . moreover , for keynes , “ [ t ] he game of professional investment has been intolerably dull and over-exacting to anyone who is , to be entirely exempt from gaming gaminstinct ; whilst that has it to pay to that propensity the appropriate toll … – ” ” ” – ” ” ” ” ” ” today . and
thus , us foreign manufacturers can not compete unless their cost is $ 1.05 per gallon lower than that of american manufacturers . perhaps the most outrageous example is america ’s $ 0.54 per gallon of import duties on ethanol , whereas there is no tariff per gallon on oil , and just a $ 0.5 per gallon tax on gasoline . this contrasts with a $ 0.51 per gallon of subsidies , which american firms ( a huge proportion who go to a single firm ) receive on ethanol . yet , despite this enormous benefit , some foreign firms may still earn it in the american market . the enormous subsidies meant that the u.s. became the world ’s largest ethanol producer .
moreover , the topic remains highly sensitive : whereas public-opinion polls in 2012 indicate for the first time a small majority in favor of legalization , opponents remain vehement . the results have not only stoked conflict between us federal legislation and state legislation , but also signal a shift in attitudes not dissimilar to that concerning same-sex marriage . the legal and political challenges that implied are not minor at all : marijuana remains an illicit substance under us federal law and the international conventions that america has adopted . moreover , the topic remains highly sensitive : whereas public-opinion polls in 2012 indicate for the first time a small majority in favor of legalization , opponents remain vehement . just as important , though , was president barack obama ’s response to colorado and washington votes – both states that he championed easily in his reelection bid .
roughly four million northerners have been denied political participation , or land ownership on the grounds that they are descendants of migrants from within their home countries . thus , the outcome has been catastrophic , as ethnic rivalries sharpened . the political upheavals of 1999-2000 gave rise to new , “ democratic ” constitution , which became an invitation to civil war . regional and religious tensions were rising again since houphouet ’s death and embraced the new constitution , which enshrined ethnic discrimination . whatever one claims about such french-backed authoritarian regimes , hindsight also leaves little doubt about the benefits of social stability seen in the ivory coast during the period , until the 1980 ’s , when france remained paternalistically engaged with its former colony .
these are highly educated people who know that knowledge is power , has a clear agenda , and that learning in europe is the responsibility of national governments , rather than brussels-based institutions . these governments want to establish an education system , according to which the state alone decides which research fields are necessary and socially . in the long run , they are likely to want the state to award political loyalists the right to produce and transfer knowledge . political trustworthiness will determine who can teach and study what about a country and its own past . in other words , access to knowledge will cease to be the civil right .
dubai – globalization , as many have noted lately , is in retreat . mark leonard , the director of the european council on foreign relations and vice chair of the world economic forum ’s new global agenda council on geo-economics , has noted that interdependence , formerly of the economic boon , has now become a threat just as often . for all of its undeniable benefits , it has mused governance and governance problems that have exposed the inequity of national governments and international institutions . this has left people everywhere , both rich and poor alike , struggling to cope with problems – from over-fishing to under-employment , from climate change to economic stagnation – to which globalization has contributed but can not be tackled effectively . fragile institutions have stoked the political backlash and the danger of catastrophe on many fronts .
london – for two decades , chinese diplomacy has been guided by the concept of the country ’s “ peaceful rise . ” today , however , what china really needs is a new strategic doctrine , for the more remarkable aspect of sri lanka ’s recent triumph over the tamil tigers is not its crushing nature , but the fact is that furnishing china with president mahinda rajapaska with both military supplies and the diplomatic cover that it needed to prosecute the war . without that chinese backing , rajapaska ’s administration would have had neither the wherewithal nor the will to ignore world opinion in its offensive toward the tigers . so , not only has china become central to every aspect of the global financial and economic system ; it has revealed its strategic effectiveness in a region traditionally outside of its orbit . on sri lanka , ’s beachfront battlefields have finished .
when alexander hamilton , america ’s first treasury secretary , mutualized state debts in 1791 , he thought that this would cement the new american nation . but us debt mutualisation gave way to enormous moral hazard effects , inducing states to borrow disproportionately . germany has the biggest exposure by far among crisis-stricken countries to reconcile closer to eurozone countries , thereby helping to alleviate austerity more than any other country . should deflation and gipsic countries default , germany on its own would have lost some € 545 billion , almost half of the aggregated aggregate sum that the bundesbank has executed a majority of net payment in the name of gipsic countries that are reflected in target balances . george soros underestimates the risks that debt-mutualisation would pose for europe ’s future .
hong kong – looking back on 2016 , there might not seem much to celebrate . beyond the stories of hospitals in conflict zones being bombed , the zika virus has emerged as a growing threat . there has also been antibiotic-resistant microbes , or “ superbugs , ” ” ” ” ” the continued resurgence of yellow fever , and polio resurgence in nigeria , which previously had been declared polio-free . in terms of global health alone , the year has seen one of an unrelenting tragedy . hopes for a respiratory syncytial virus has been dashed .
this dynamic can be seen in the trend toward bank consolidation and branch closings , which have accelerated since the 2008 financial crisis and reduced access to services in low-income communities . when it comes to securing equity in the banking system , these precedents and existing institutions highlight the way forward . history also shows us that financial exclusion is a persistent problem whenever universal service-to-service requests are absent . during the new deal era , regulators included the functional equivalent of such an requirement in banking charters for banks and thrifts . but those mandates were hailed during a wave of deregulation in the 1980s , when banks moved quickly away from low - and high-profits activities .
in april 2014 , then-us secretary of state john kerry told the american us congress that direct talks between israel and palestine had gone “ poof ” ” ” when israel announced 700 new us housing troop levels for israelis in the west bank . it is not hard to imagine what palestinian negotiators had to feel as they pushed out of massive israeli settlements on territories they worked to include an independent state . after all , the israeli government not only allowed supposedly unapproved outposts to exist ; it also provided to them with water , electricity , the internet , and military protection . nor was it lost on all of america ’s arab leaders . by december 2016 , obama was allowing the un security council to vote on a trump-derided resolution declaring israel ’s settlement construction a “ major obstacle ” to a two-state solution .
new haven : throughout europe and america , the men at the black tie and women at kenzo and armani gowns are once more summer pilgrims to places like bayreuth , glyndebourne , and glimmerglass . perhaps , then , it is also time for a fundamental question to ask : should the state continue to ladle in generous subsidies to such elite activities ? consider a thing of indisputable beauty and spiritual depth : roman catholic high mass . once again , there is another , then state coffers are tapped to encourage these privileged retreats . does its grandeur mean supporting the state ?
but foreign policy , as the us has known it , is essentially a manifestation of a nation or a superpower . in defense and warfare , unpredictability includes the potential of young men dying in action . this contrast underlines the fact that the great achievements of eu integration have taken place within which no-man 's – land , which lies between full national independence and an absolute loss of sovereignty in a federation . thus , it is not surprising that us foreign-policy integration has made little headway . but foreign policy , as the us has known , is fundamentally a manifestation of a nation or a superpower .
lebanon often struggles to attract funding , owing to its status as a lower-middle-income country , but that label is misleading , because it fails to account for the serious structural weaknesses that predate the syrian crisis or the vast share of the resident population , composed of syria ’s refugees , palestine , and even iraq , who live in abject poverty . indeed , the us faces a shortfall of $ 100 million for new school year . i am thankful to donors when it began next year , but now requires additional international support . without additional support from the international community , there will be no realization – despite strong political will and rigorous planning . one thing i hope becomes clear at the oslo education summit is the need to help middle-income countries hit by fragility and conflict .
what does all this tell us about human nature and our capacity to live either prudently or ethically ? part of the problem is , of course , that we make resolutions to do just things that we are not otherwise plausible . so we use the new year ’s occasion to try to change behavior that can be most difficult to change . in doing so , this makes failing an especially distinct possibility ; it also leads to failing . only an anorexic could resolve to eat ice cream at least one week , or only workaholic will resolve to spend more on avoid tv .
a second conclusion to be drawn from the current situation is that the fed has now overshot america ’s economy ’s strength for 11 consecutive years . if every year of the fed ’s forecasting approach were a coin toss , we would now have about eleven heads in a row , with zero tails . the probability that it will happen is one in 2,048 , by contrast . elementary mathematics dictates that credible prediction should at least overestimate half a time and undershooting half this time . the fed clearly needs a deep look at its forecasting methodology and policymaking processes .
any study seeking to determine whether a psychiatric disorder is over-diagnosed would find that some single-state patients do not have it out of a reinterview process , either . such is the nature of the imperfect reliability of psychiatric diagnosis . but we think that an over-diagnosis rate of more than 50 % crosses a clinical significance threshold . the question , then , is not whether some patients previously given the diagnosis simply do n’t seem to have it to be upon re-interviews , but rather how many . how high a percentage should be before claiming over-diagnosis is a significant problem and value judgment .
this time around , virtually every economy suffers substantially substantially , and a banking crisis is global in scale . it was a country or region hit hard by many earlier banking crises ( argentina , japan , ecuador ) . indeed , in the great depression of the 1930 ’s , it was common for western intellectuals to turn to communism and central planning as a hoped-for panacea . at a time of severe economic distress , policymakers thrash out in search of solutions , and some people lose faith in the economic system itself . policymakers will continue to throw whatever ammunition they can find at the issue , but it will take time for deleveraging from the boom to run its course .
washington , dc – steve bannon ’s sprawling travels in europe earlier this year did not attract as much attention nowadays as they should , given that he is america ’s keytician of us president donald trump ’s signature brand of nationalism . as more countries transform themselves into “ nationalist autocracies ” and the “ illiberal democracies ” under strongman rule , nationalism has become an ideological common denominator . and yet , one wonders how an “ america first ” ideologue may be able to pursue its policy project anywhere other than in america . by joining forces with french far-right leader marine le pen – herself an open supporter of russian president vladimir putin – bannon seems to have a new kind of “ neo-nationalist ” international . nowadays , bannon wants to build a federation of european nationalist parties .
as a result , the mission broke down in july . one celebrated the end of the eighteenth century incident was lord macartney ’s british mission to an imperial court of china . the diplomatic immunity from local prosecution was the idea that sprang straight from another incident , almost a century earlier , involving the arrests of a russian aristocrat , andrey matveyev , representing peter the great in london . one famous latter-day incident was lord macartney ’s british mission to an imperial court of china . this , too , was a case of “ holding face ” : the chinese expected tribute ; the british insisted on the equal status of his king .
during those five years , an investor earns an extra 2 % every year , a cumulative gain of 10 % . but when the ten-year bond rate rises to 5 % , the bond ’s price drop drops from $ 100 to $ 69 . here is how an arithmetic works for the investor who rolls over ten-year bonds over ten-year bonds , thereby earning 2 % more every year than it otherwise could by investing in treasury bills or bank deposits . if not , the loss in bond prices would more than wipe out the additional interest that it has earned , even though rates remain unchanged over the next five years . assume that the rate of the ten-year bond rate remains almost unchanged over the next five years , and then start rising from a 2 % range to 5 % .
as a result , political leaders should not privilege any particular technology . only the world ’s political and economic heavyweights ; the major industrialized countries that remain by far the largest hydrocarbon consumers can initiate a change on a global scale . change must begin with the transportation sector , which accounts for more than half of current oil consumption – a share that is likely to continue in the future . thus , the g-8 countries should agree to no longer license any new , oil-powered automobiles from 2025 onwards . that decision would not be directed against individual mobility , but against the “ tipping point ” at a shortage of resources that is more urgently needed to produce synthetic materials .
ithaca – us president-elect donald trump has once again succeeded in turning facts on his head . as part of a broader effort to do with china to task for the supposedly “ raping ” the united states economy through unfair trade policies , he has now reneged on his accusation that the country manipulates its currency to gain the advantage of its exports . make no mistake : trump ’s ’s accusing of chinese currency manipulation does not support the facts . such statements are just as dangerous as they are unmoored from reality . in contrast , for the past two and a half years , the people of china ’s bank of china ( pboc ) intervening in currency markets to the opposite purpose : preventing the renminbi ’s value from falling too sharply against the dollar .
new delhi – in late last month , when two indian states and national capital held ransom through rioting mobs protesting their spiritual leader , ’s conviction on two counts of raping minor female girls , many indians found themselves confronting a few painful truths about their country . in 2002 , two of those female followers mustered the bravery of a printing press . the flamboyant , jewelry-bedecked singh calls himself baba gurmeet ram rahim singh insan , compared to a hindu compound , muslim , and sikh name , followed on the word to “ human ” in hindi , punjabi , and urdu . the leader who spurred these protests is gurmeet singh , one of the more prominent of a handful of “ godmen , ” ” ” or self-proclaimed spiritual leaders to flourish throughout india . and he has a reputation for sexually exploiting his female followers .
yet a clear-headed analysis of iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad ’s behavior indicates that eu sanctions would lead to more trade diversion , with china , russia , turkey , or dubai benefiting from reduced levels of european exports to iran . to be sure , while some us imports would become more expensive for iran , the economic effect of such sanctions would remain limited . for these reasons , europeans favor a new security council resolution , even though its actions are weaker than what the united states or the eu might impose unilaterally . by contrast , some american policymakers remain convinced that iran would abandon its enrichment program if only the european union impose unilateral sanctions . politically , ahmadinejad certainly would not miss the chance to take advantage of unilateral actions for us propaganda – arguing that iran has a conflict not with the international community ; but with imperialist states intent on depriving his country of technological advances .
and yet he shares right-wing populists ’ hostility to liberal academics , journalists , and intellectuals . no one could be more identified with the political elite than abe , the grandson of a warsaw cabinet minister and later prime minister , and the son of a foreign minister . and yet , he is sharing right-wing populists ’ hostility to liberal academics , journalists , and intellectuals . his efforts to revise japan ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s pacifist constitution , restore pride in his wartime record , and discredit “ elitist ” mainstream media like the left-of-center newspaper asahi shimbun have won him the praise of donald trump as a former chief strategist , stephen bannon , who has labeled abe a “ trump ” before trump . postwar japanese democracy was influenced in the 1950 ’s and 1860s by the intellectual elite , which was consciously seeking to distance japan from its wartime nationalism .
ensuring high-quality output and local consumers ’ loyalty requires keeping their workforces happy and maintaining a positive public image . but sub-saharan africa ’s potential correlations with global corporations need not be so restricted . by contrast , african countries often see the worst flanks among multinational banks : energy , mineral , and precious metallic companies go where resources are , not where it is so ’s pleasant to work . as one former mining executive manager in the region told me , “ the goal is always straightforward : get assets off the ground and from the country as cheaply , and with as little fuss , and ” so far , it is just as you might be able to bring them about . for your customer is overseas and there is little processing to do in the country , why should companies upgrade local skills or otherwise help the host economy ?
the first big city to boom was london , starting around 1996 . the boom mentality spread to los angeles , new york , and sydney around 1997 , paris in june miami , moscow and shanghai in 2001 , and vancouver around 2002 . these and other cities have been booming pretty much since 2000 ; prices in most cases are up at least 50 % in real terms since 2000 . that has produced a huge windfall for homeowners , but has hurt for anyone planning to buy . now , real growth in home prices is subsiding in some of these cities .
control also relies on internet users ’ demography , most of whom belong to china ’s economic elite , and are more likely to adopt the internet as part of newfound consumer lifestyles than as a tool for a political or social revolution . after two and a half decades of market-oriented economic reform , chinese citizens increasingly recognize how to protect their economic and social interests through the rise of the rule of law . but it is also prompting profound social changes rooted in the rising rights perception within a society , something reinforced by what was not just an economy ’s increasing growth , but in the rapid spread of the internet . to be sure , what is surprising is that the government ’s surveillance mechanisms have been mostly effective . the government employs a host of new regulatory decrees , a shadowy internet police force , and an intense hardcore national information filtering system .
this european polity lacks a second crucial element of madison ’s scheme : diversified political representation at the federal level . individual nation-states , regions , and special-interest groups are represented within the eu . but , whereas common europe ’s causes arise on a daily basis , they have no europe-wide political representation . as a result , nationally elected representatives have a responsibility to make crucial eu-level decisions . no single political party or politician in brussels can claim to represent europeans with associated interests , because none has been forced to compete for europe-wide public support .
although a us president ’s advisors may make a difference , one would think that candidates would acknowledge them , if only to suggest where their own ideas come from ; after all , realistically exactly what they are shopsold is their ability to judge and manage expertise , not their own abilities as economists . originally had a memo of economic advisers , including lawrence summers , christina romer , austan goolsbee , and cass sunstein . this time , too , no mention was made in the name of any deep economic thinker or of any particular economic model . is there anything more , really a one may be asking for a us president ? and yet america ’s presidential campaigns generally neglect discussion of advisers or intellectual influences .
nor can they simply wait for america to move ; nor can they always seek to placate washington ’s preferences . after all , only the ingrained habits of playing second fiddle to the american people actually prevent eu members from conspicuously and loudly distancing themselves from israel ’s repressive interferences for the west bank and gaza , even though such a attitude would help to reinforce arab states ’ commitment to a coalition against terrorism like the one that provides useful shove to american diplomacy . in short , they will need to advance their own efforts to sustain shared efforts . for a second , they will have to make their own , distinct , benefits . what this distinct contribution could be not just to define .
one reason for this is that low patient numbers make studying illnesses and screening drugs are difficult . as a result , medical professionals often know little about these diseases ’ symptoms and biology . earlier this year , i participated in california ’s rare public-health program . the topic was an obscure but large collection ( more than 70 ) of diseases due to a particular kind of genetic error – one that takes place in the machinery of cell cells that chemically attaches sugars to proteins and lipids . little is known about what caused mutations to cause these congenital disorders , and treatments exist for just a few .
markets become rigged , justice becomes transactional , and politicians sell themselves to the top bidder . in ukraine , even universities are compromised : degrees are regularly bought and sold . while corruption is more like a symptom than a cause of ukraine ’s problems , the culture of corruption must be uprooted before conditions can improve . in time , this “ culture of corruption ” will spill over into society . one might assume that this simply requires a strong state , with the means to root out corrupt politicians and businessmen .
on the other hand , settlements offer cheaper housing than are available in israel , thus resolving one of the country ’s major economic problems of its growing middle class . in israel , obama will come across as a country that has indeed moved , but not toward a missing center . nor should anyone expect a moratorium on settlement expansion to generate progress . “ red lines ” in israel have a way of being mutating along lines drawn in sand that are then coughed up at the slightest wind . the new government ’s fragile equilibrium will simply reinforces this sober interpretation .
at that time , japan ’s budget deficits ballooned after the country ’s property bubble burst , triggering economic stagnation . as a result , the country ’s ratio of tax revenue to total spending this fiscal year fell to less than 50 % for the first time in japan ’s postwar history . if the government continues on this path , many expect ’s budget deficit to widen further . despite the weakness of japan ’s fiscal position , the market for japanese government bonds ( jgbs ) remains steady , at least for now . japan had a similar experience in the 1990 ’s , the country ’s so-called “ lost decade . ”
its catalogue of crimes includes : steal the 2002 election , which allowed mugabe to hold on to power ; torturing and murdering supporters of opposition movements for democratic change ; a transformation of a fertile , prosperous country once considered africa ’s breadbasket in a place that half of the population barely survives on foreign food handouts ; and , as exemplified by its attacks on daily news , the suppression of critical voices . yet zimbabwe ’s neighbors , particularly those in south africa , have defended president mugabe . in late august , the heads of state ’s 13 members of the south african development community ( sadc ) – including mugabe and president thabo mbeki of south africa – met in dar es salaam , tanzania , to reflect on the challenges that even before them are . among the 54 paragraphs of the summit final communiqué , two dealt with zimbabwe . the mugabe regime , for its part , has been guilty of outrage after outrage .
state and local governments have been leaders in establishing public primary - and lower-secondary-education systems , as well as states ’ colleges and universities . and the american constitution enables individual states to function as what judge brandeis called democracy ’s laboratories by experimenting with innovative policies without putting the rest of the country at risk . there is a long and abundant history of successful experimentation , and we have run a long and rich history . california , wyoming , and other states allowed women to vote – an example that encouraged the passage of the early-nineteenth-century amendment ( enfranchising all adult women ) . a 2014 pew study found that whereas only 25 % of respondents were satisfied with a direction for national policy , 60 % were satisfied with governance within their own communities .
the current inflation rate of 0.3 % is the result of a sharp fall in commodity prices and a painful but unavoidable adjustment of costs and prices in the peripheral countries . in other words , price stability reigns in the eurozone . only greece now has a slightly negative inflation rate . should higher nominal ( that is , inflation-driven ) growth replace debt-fueled growth ? europe needs to aim for sustainable , nonperforming growth and competitive job creation .
the implication is that speculators can drive up prices and boost their inventory holdings even as total commercial inventories remain little changed . additionally , oil market speculation may have sparked “ echo speculation , ” whereby ultimate users purchase refined products inasmuch in advance to protect against future price hikes . they then take delivery on their premises so that total refined inventories rise , but that rise is not a part of reported carry trade inventories . proving that speculation is responsible for higher prices is always difficult because it tends to hit hard against a backdrop of powerful fundamentals . record-high speculative prices thus probably caused bundesbank traders to release inventory when they are now active lessees of commercial storage capacity .
but the two states also lack the domestic revenue needed to sustain their institutions . indeed , if they are to be able to survive well into the next century , they will probably have to be a subsumed under the union encouraged by the greater , more powerful , and more established nation-state . such a state , whether exisiting de facto or widespread formal recognition , will have an ever-lasting impact on the borders of the arab world ( syria and iraq ) and the wider middle east ( turkey and iran ) . furthermore , the disintegration that the region already has witnessed , and will undoubtedly continue to witness , will reverberate beyond the arab map with the creation of a sovereign kurdish state . the arab spring has , until now , brought down some regimes , albeit perhaps not others .
good fortune and bad fortunes alternate randomly , and the world ’s poorest people become particularly vulnerable when adversity – like a hurricane in a fishing village – strikes . so risk-management products , by smoothing bumps in the income , can be extraordinarily important in alleviating the effects of poverty . it is important to recognize that the world of the poorest people is not the same people from year to year . we tend to think that new risk-management products , such as novel kinds of insurance or financial derivatives , will primarily interest the wealthy , or at least relatively affluent people . in fact , new risk-management products are inching for some of africa ’s poorest people , asia , and latin america .
that disconnect is nothing new ; there have always been tsars and serfs , politburo commissars and proletariat . that postcommunist boris yeltsin , however , though he has sometimes proclaimed allegiance to the hazy collective sense of rossiyane ( today 's citizens ) , deprived , or liberated , it is a matter of opinion – russians of all collective life ; both the real lives of shared hardship and the imaginary half-life of communist solidarity . today , everyone deals with lives and hardship individually ( a new word in our daily vocabulary ) , regardless of any kremlin desire to make life uniform . indeed , even russian uniformity is different nowadays , as it happens . in novgorod i saw lukoil ( one of russia ’s great private-sector oil companies ) gasoline stations .
but , beyond the potential gains from cooperation for controlling illegal immigration , most countries , including the united states and the united kingdom , are working to reform their immigration laws unilaterally . they view cooperation as infeasible , given the natural competition between destination and source countries for the most productive workforce . a new system – in which “ reversible bonds ” had substituted quotas and desirability of screenings – would sap such competition , while mitigating the risks to destination and source countries . greater international cooperation would maximize immigration ’s had a base of immigration with extensive economic benefits . irreversible bonds would acts like insurance , shielding destination countries from fiscally motivated immigration sources and protecting source countries from the costs associated with loss of talented workers .
in fact , real ( inflation-adjusted ) gdp per capita is lower in much of the north atlantic than it was in 2007 ; in greece , the us economy has shrunk by an estimated 23 % . denmark and the european country have recorded miserly 0.7 % of the average annual growth over the past six years . every downturn , in turn , comes to an end . denmark ’s good policy is that it succeeds in making the downturn shallower and shorter than it otherwise would have been . denmark ceo of austerity policies embraced by many governments is that they make the downturn far deeper and longer than was necessary , with protracted consequences .
madrid – twenty-five years ago , poland ’s people were stunned by their choice of their compatriot , cardinal karol wojtyla of cracow , as the pope did . but , even under our euphoria , we did not expect how much the new pope could change not just poland , but the entire world . his first return visit to his native country soon , afterwards , showed all of the world as a new pope ’s power . some were horrified ; others wept with a delight . here , then , was the prominent writer , “ poland ’s second christendom . ”
though surely , the hong kong courts could have handled the matter themselves , – under the “ one country , two systems ” framework – hong kong is reassured by an independent court system , in addition to the right to elect its own legislature – that has enraged china has intervened . in an exceptional move , china ’s national people ’s congress sided with “ “ “ “ clarify ” the article 104 of the basic law , ” declaring that every naaths of the office-holders take must be “ solemn , precise , comprehensive , and sincere . ” yau and leung were barred from gaining their seats in the legislative council . to most hong kong ’s lawyers , displaying political authority did not represent just reinterpretation of old rules , but a move toward making new ones . restraint , after all , is not a leninist virtue .
the company markets its soccer balls and many other goods with a “ guaranteed ” label . but human rights sensitivity has done nothing to staunch the trade of unionism ’s worldwide decline . the international labor organization reports that trade unions are in retreat in most nations . appeals by groups like the workers rights consortium and ethical trading initiatives , some corporations promise to pay living wages , open their factories to monitors , and even give workers a voice in the workplace . vaccebok , the multinational sportswear firm , nelson advertises its corporate code , as it “ relies on the core principles ” of the un ’s universal declaration of human rights .
responsible sourcing is a duty , not an option , of a one . that is as it should be . the united states has already adopted its next logical move . the us securities and exchange commission calls for companies to use tantalum , tin , gold , or tungsten in their products to investigate these crude materials ’ ’ origin , and to alleviate risks in their supply-chain chains when it is found to originate in certain conflict-affected or high-risk areas . africa ’s 12 member countries ’s international conference on the great lakes region committed to a similar logic of mandatory due-diligence .
an illiberal cee hindu nationalists like hungarian prime minister victor orbán likes to claim that they are defending national sovereignty from the bureaucrats in brussels . the truth , however , is that cee countries have little to lose in the way of sovereignty . much of their productive and financial assets are owned by foreign firms , simply because most of the rules that govern their economies have been fixed from the eu . cameron ’s initiative plays right in their hands , permitting orbán and his allies in neighboring countries to declare anathema any move toward an ever-closer union and strengthening federal authority and legitimacy . they thus conclude that they can have it both ways , sustain the advantages of economic integration , without losing the capacity of infringe on their citizens ’ rights , or use eu financial transfers to build patron-client relationships and reinforce their hold through the state .
that is why the link to governance and institutions at rio +20 is just as important as the transition to a green economy is occurring : markets are human constructs that require the rules and institutions to guide not just its direction , but that of their borders . as the recently released “ aim of a green economy ” : pathways to sustainable development and poverty eradication show , a market economy as currently constituted has resulted in the misallocation of capital on an unprecedented scale . the systemic food , fuel , and finance that comes into the head in 2008 – and that is continuing in many countries – are having their roots , from an economic paradigm that has failed to account for the value of nature and its array of life-supporting services . one concern among its critics is that a shift to a green economy will essentially monetize nature , exposing the world to forests and fresh water and fisheries to the profit-seeking behavior of bankers and traders , whose flaws have helped to trigger the financial and economic turmoil of the last four years . indeed , deeply and pervasive market failures – in the price of carbon emissions , biodiversity , and ecosystem services – accelerate ecological risks and ecological scarcities , undermining human well-being and social equity .
third , israel accused of anti-semitism , those who dared to criticize its disproportionate response to hamas ’s indefensible rocket attacks and its collective sanction of the palestinians . an italian cardinal who admittedly spoke intemperately was accusing jews of exploiting the language of holocaust denial . by that standard , does my unqualified criticism of hamas ’s rocket attacks compel me to islamophobe ? coincidentally , the deadly attack on gaza came at the same time that an america ’s clutch of the most distinguished would-be middle east “ peacemakers published books about how the task should be properly tackled . ” it all sounded like a series of job claims – a war by president barack obama ’s ear .
a similar political imperative is at the heart of the sinhalese chauvinism that has made an abrupt return to the public life in sri lanka . the religious and ethnic passions of the sinhalese have been emboldened during the final , bloody push that ended sri lanka ’s one-quarter-century of civil war with the tamil tigers in 2009 . but , instead of seeking reconciliation with the tamils following its defeat , the then-president , mahinda rajapaksa , has continued to play on ethnic hatred , as he subverted sri lanka ’s democracy . rajapaksa ’s unexpected defeat by sri lanka ’s democrat and tamil political parties last january ’s presidential election – an outcome that he then sought for annul – should put an end to both his business and race-baiting politics . but the former president is now mounting a raging comeback bid , and might well win the parliamentary election scheduled for august 17 .
schools around the world , from north america to northern nigeria , now need security plans to ensure their pupils ’ safety and provide confidence in their parents and their communities . these are not isolated examples of children caught in the crossfire ; this is what will happen when classrooms become actual targets of terrorists , who see education as a threat . indeed , boko haram is literally translated to mean that “ fake ” or “ westerners ” education is “ forbidden . ” in at least 30 countries , a concerted pattern of assaults by armed groups , with afghanistan , colombia , pakistan , somalia , sudan , sudan , and syria being the worst affected . such attacks expose with stark clarity that providing education is not just about the blackboard , books and curricula .
meanwhile , some companies and organizations – including wework , unilever , and starbucks – are developing innovative approaches to hiring refugees . global organizations are sipping into tech-savvy refugees ’ networks and recruiting it for online work . modest seed funding can go a long way toward helping refugee-owned enterprises get off the ground . more scholarship opportunities for refugees , along with greater funding for schools in and away from refugee settlements , would also be welcomed . meanwhile , some companies and organizations – including wework , ikea , and starbucks – are developing innovative approaches to hiring refugees .
that is why it is increasingly being rejected in favor of an agro-ecological model based on the principles of “ food sovereignty . ” next month , representatives from over 190 countries will meet in sharm el el sheikh , egypt , for their 14th meeting of the parties conference to the convention on biological diversity ( the un biodiversity conference ) . while there , they will agree on whether to file the brakes on gene drives , ensuring that farmers and indigenous peoples are fully consulted before those technologies are unleashed in their communities . one hopes that the international community will uphold its obligation to protect food supplies , just as the rights of farmers worldwide are . the latter approach , endorsed by the un human rights council , calls on farmers to share their existing knowledge and seeds with one another and to protect local ecosystems .
buying time to secure a full political future , venezuelan officials were carefully stage-managed chávez ’s illness and an eventual death , even suggesting near the finish one , while going through complex and agonizing cancer treatments , that he is still “ walking and exercising ” ” ” ” . but will this suffice to create a chávista lineage produce ? it is not exactly clear how long-lasting venezuela ’s hugo chávez was , in fact , dead before his passing was officially reported . the information vacuum resembles that of the secrecy surrounding the deaths of stalin and mao , and the practice in the ottoman empire of keeping sultan ’s death a clandestine for several weeks until the succession had been settled . the emotional manipulation of the mise-en-scene surrounding chávez ’s death appears certain to translate into his electoral support for his gray successor , nicolás maduro .
at the same time , governments in developed countries have a role to play in influencing the nature of technological innovations . such policies are unlikely to make a lot of difference to those in the developing world . for them , the main impediment will remain that existing technologies enable insufficient room for factor substitutions : employing less-skilled labor instead of skilled professionals or physical capital . too often , they subsidize labor-replacing , capital-intensive technologies , rather than pushing innovations in socially beneficial directions , to augment rather than substitute for less-skilled workers . the demanding quality standards needed to supply global value chains can not easily be satisfied with the replacement of manual labor .
berkeley – on january 20 , 2017 , us president-elect donald trump will take office has received almost three million fewer votes than his opponent ; working with the republican senate majority , whose members have won 13 million fewer votes than their democratic adversaries . at the same time , trump will start his presidency with an approval rating under 50 % . this is unprecedented – or “ unpresidented , ” as one of his semi-literate tweets put it ( before erasing it ) , in the history of such a ratings . indeed , the world ’s oldest democracy is not democratic ; it is actually . only with the republican majority in the house of representatives – headed by speaker paul ryan – has any claim to represent a blue-collar majority for the top 55 % of americans who voted on day ’s 2016 election .
the s-400 dispute is just the latest example of the extent to which military procurement matters has generated a rift between turkey and its western allies . in turkey ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s view , its western partners have done little , through technology transfer and joint-production schemes , to accommodate its burgeoning defense industry . in sharp contrast , chinese and to some extent russian firms have been more receptive to such turkish demands as part of the latter , ’s military procurements . and domestic deflationary interests are only part of the story . more broadly , both turkey and the west have been undergoing a policy , strategic , and geopolitical decoupling , reflected most recently by each side ’s differing threat perceptions and alliances within the conflict in syria .
underdevelopment in many southern countries that are faring badly in their struggles to stay viable in a globalizing world creates conditions for desperate poverty , ecological breakdown , and rootless , the unemployed population beyond the control of atrophying state systems . as we embark upon the still-new millennium , although ironically , it seems , ironically , that tomorrow ’s possible disorder might be due in no small part to yesterday ’s colonial rule . this is not to say that our responses to the dangers emerging from the legacies of the past must be rooted in the past . we will not create a better world in more than 21 of a st century by forgetting what happened in october 19 , and that of much of the twentieth century . what is needed is an approach that is needed than ever for innovative , forward-looking approaches to global governance .
in its bilateral negations with moscow , american officials have offered four concrete bmd collaboration projects : · joint us-american expert studies on how bmd might affect russia ’s ’s nuclear deterrent , and which steps might be taken to minimize possible problems ; · expanded nato-russia theater-level bmd exercises that build on the earlier stages of cooperation , undermined by russia in its 2008 war with georgia , and that rehearse how deployed nato and russia ’s forces can jointly defend against missile threats ; · an underlying legal framework to support these and other cooperative projects . · bi-national and multi-national jointly manned centers , where russian personnel can perceive the non-threatening nature of us and nato ’s own missile-defense activities ;
though the tax package that trump signed into law last december , and now helps the us economy keep growing , government revenues have so far been responsive to that of growth . under these conditions , trump ’s greatest and boldest policy proposals are likely to run into budget constraints . he has already ruled out any change to the social security system , which will have arrived at every opportunity to save the public . and a temporary increase in us defense spending will revert back to insufficient levels following this fiscal year . his and congressional republicans ’ attempts to replace the affordable care act ( obamacare ) and curtail the growth in medicaid spending have been unsuccessful .
indeed , europe ’s divided posture toward the israeli-palestinian conflict exemplifies its poor record on achieving a foreign-policy consensus . the eu has always supported a two-state solution , despite challenging demographic realities , not to mention the need to preserve the jewish national identity . but these sound reasons for backing palestine ’s ’s ’s bid may simply will not impede the eu ’s ability to deliver a split vote ; the reverberations not only echo across the arab world , inviting accusations of hypocrisy ; but they will also impede europe ’s efforts to reset relations with countries across the middle east and north africa . a split vote thus undermines european interests , delivering a damaging blow to european foreign policy in a challenging geopolitical environment . granting observer-state status to palestine would take off the table as a “ one-state ” solution that has lately been gaining momentum among experts .
on the other hand , each time someone in china googles something and gets the answer – a product ’s fine and bad points , the details of someone ’s government do n’t like – havel must wonder , why ca n’t i get this kind of information about everything ? moreover , in the countries where google is widely criticized for blocking access to information , he highlights the absence of information when something is blocked – letting people know that it exists but can n’t have access to it . rather than demand an end to censorship now – an impossible dream – google is working to make that happen by eroding government control over information . a little transparency inevitably leads to more , at least , to more . with google , people are beginning to expect answers about everything .
though no outcome has been formally agreed or made public , several themes have emerged from the beijing meeting . one has been widespread acceptance that the “ responsibility to protect ” ( r2p ) doctrine , unanimously agreed by the un general assembly in 2005 , is here to stay . r2p recognizes that sovereigns have a responsibility to protect their peoples from genocide , ethnic cleansing , crimes against humanity , and war crimes ; that other states have a responsibility to assist with them ; and that if a state is explicitly failing to protect its people , the broader international community has a responsibility to step in with “ timely and decisive action ” that could , at most , include military action when authorized by the un security council . true , some chinese scholars remain inclined to argue that the comprehensive r2p enterprise – particularly its penalties for military action in exceptional instances – is only “ the old neo-interventionist ” wine in a new bottle . drew together , they offer grounds for confidence that it may be able to recreate an international consensus , so long absent from syria on how to deal with the hardest , mass-atrocity cases .
so , indeed , the global economy should think of as a global capitalist system . by focusing on these problems , i am not trying to belittle globalization ’s benefits . but global capitalism is not without problems ; we need to understand these better if we are to take the system to survive . global integration brought tremendous benefits : the international division of labor that is so manifestly proved to be the theory of comparative advantage ; dynamic benefits like economies of scale and the rapid proliferation of innovations from one country to another ; which are less easy to prove through a static equilibrium theory ; and noneconomic benefits like the freedom of choice associated with an international movement of goods , capital , and people ; and the freedom to think connected with international ideas . those benefits , i believe , can be sustained only through a deliberate , relentless effort to correct and contain the system ’s deficiencies .
making matters worse for trump , the widely admired mueller government in effect has recommended that congress commit the impeachment process . mueller explained that a controversial us department policy , intended to help president richard nixon , bars an impeachment motion by a sitting president . this is neither under the constitution nor the law . ( nixon was an unindicted co-conspirator in watergate burglary ’s cover-ups , whereas trump is one in new york city involving his pre-election participation in order to silence two women , with whom he had sex liaisons shortly after his son , barron ’s birth ) . trump has portraying the report ’s findings as wholly exonerating ( “ no collusion , no penalties , no penalties ) , even though the report explicitly stated that this was n’t the case .
indeed , russia ’s supposed peacekeeping troops ” in abkhazia and south ossetia , georgian ’s other secession-minded region , has , in fact , shielded their rebellious governments . likewise , russia has been enforcing a full georgian trade embargo , hoping to weaken the resolve of its pro-western president , mikhail saakashvili . should russia recognize abkhazia ’s independence , saakashvili might be tempted to react militarily to prevent his country from unraveling . a renewed conflict in abkhazia would not only compound the risks of open warfare with russia ; it is strain relations with armenia , for it is close to 50,000 armenians in abkhazia who support a rosneft government . another risk in the south caucasus is that russia ( with armenian support ) will recognize nagorno-karabakh ’s self-proclaimed independence from azerbaijan .
europe needs to make progress on its initial opportunity , provided that it seize a second , and that means strengthening the eu . on this front , macron has already offered ambitious proposals : a separate eurozone budget , a eurozone finance minister responsible for it , and a eurozone parliament ( made up of members of the european commission and national parliamentarians ) to hold finance minister accountable . even before germany ’s new coalition government was formed , the franco-german working group was established to weigh macron ’s proposals . in the short term , the new government seems unlikely to support macron ’s proposals in their current form . now that merkel ’s new administration is in place , the us will figure out how far germany is willing and able to go in fostering greater eurozone cohesion .
moreover , the recent establishment of two additional mdbs – the asian infrastructure investment bank and the new development bank , established by the brics countries ( brazil , russia , india , china , and south africa ) – will contribute further to a more balanced public-private mix in development finance . the financial crisis has also encouraged some european , african , and asian governments to establish new ndbs , with other countries to expand theirs . as a result , ndbs ’ total assets reached roughly $ 5 trillion in 2015 . today , they are an important feature of most developed - and middle-income countries ’ financial sectors , notably in china , germany , india , and south korea . and big ndbs may well have a huge impact , particularly for emerging economies .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present over many years to come . as i pointed out earlier this year , the conservatives ’ plan would essentially solve one big problem – britain ’s rundown ’s diplomatic service – by creating a much bigger problem : the loss of britain ’s soft power . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present over many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but that does not augur all-out war .
as many commentators have noted , from the islamists ’ standpoint , morsi ’s ’s ’s removal looks spectacularly like the algerian military ’s overthrow in 1992 ( with the us backing ) of an elected islamist government ; the turkish military ’s “ soft coup ” in 1997 , when it forced an elected islamist government out of power ; and america ’s government ’s reversal of its support for “ arab democracy ” after hamas ’s election in 2006 . more generally , military interference with civilian politics , for whatever reason , weakens processes , institutions , and checks on state power that make liberal democracy working . so , what should american and other governments that have promoted liberal democracy now ? the answer could affect egypt ’s political future , and that of countries throughout the region . if a choice for islamists continues to bullets or ballots , bullets might now look more promising .
this not only undermines their capacity to perform efficiently ; it also puts them at substantial risk , with widespread misinformation about vaccines , for example , fueling assaults against those that provide them . for example , in the early 2000s , rwanda and ethiopia recruited and trained thousands of such workers to take the fight against malaria by educating communities on prevention and detection , apportioning tools like bed nets , and administering treatment . as a result , the incidence of malaria dropped by 75 % from 2000 to 2015 . yet the world also remains steadfastly underestimating the capabilities and contributions of frontline health workers . consider pakistan , where hardline clerics and militants view polio vaccination programs as western ploys to sterilize and spy on muslims .
once the would-be “ military threat ” posed by the soviet union vanished into a thin air , an afterthought of nato enlargement has served neither a military nor an ideological purpose . indeed , the west ’s rationale for enlargement was geopolitical : to draw the former soviet republics and socialist states of central and eastern europe into the western sphere of political and economic influence . initially , nato ’s ’s new members were declared to have met both a democratic and military criterion . later , these criteria were abandoned when nato opened up even the most backward and corrupt states to join . moreover , not only was enlarged , its membership transformed itself from an anti-communist defensive alliance into an offensive grouping ( with operations in yugoslavia , iraq , and afghanistan ) .
ordinarily , the fund expects the problems to come from its usual suspects – the economically volatile developing countries – but this time the crisis has passed out just a few kilometers from its stock . maybe that proximity has been at the root of the imf ’s failure to interpret the evidence right under its nose . if so , it represents a failure that raises two key questions . so , in searching for the causes of the imf ’s failure , let ’s rule out distraction by more urgent matters . ironically , this led the imf to turn its attention to its oversight role .
indeed , the same relations between france and the un – which have led the country ’s resistance to military intervention in iraq in 2003 – now push france to intervene in libya in 2011 . at the crossroads of that question stands nato , an organization perceived by europeans and internationally ( that is , not american ) by an average american citizen . but if nato is – for better or worse – in command in libya , it is the un that has given the green light to french action there . it is this particular “ marriage of reason ” between france and the un that is crucial to understanding the french position in libya . it is a shift that raises the big question : when those who are prepared to act prove incapable of doing so successfully , ” what will happen to global stability unless those able also are willing to step in ?
but if that hour were actually a lunch with a terrorist ist , then they ( and their aides ) would need to lie intentionally in order to try to hide it . if an official match had been met with a lobbyist , and is not shame , he might simply say so . obviously , there is no way to enforce full disclosure ; but , by creating explicit processes and expectations , we are hopeful about reset norms . and when an official encounters mostly with lobbyists , at the expense of other kinds of meetings , voters can make judgments about this , too . when an official meets with a lobbyist and is unshy , he may simply say so .
big tech firms might argue that all of the capital they pour into new goods and services is propelling an innovation . one suspects , however , that , in many circumstances , intent is nip potential competition in the bud . and there is the risk that these tech giants would use their voluminous armies of programmers to develop a near-identical product and their vast legal resources to defend it . so , in practice , potentially disruptive new technologies are just as likely to be buried as nourished . it is notable that big tech still suffers a majority of its income from its core products – for example , the apple iphone , the microsoft office and the google search engine .
by contrast , it is far more difficult to identify a problem when a person makes hundreds of trades each day . in rajaratnam ’s case , the possibility of establishing such a linchpin , has come through telephone surveillance . historically , both state and federal attorney generals have favored prosecution of the occasional ” ” ” traders , who stick out like the thumb of a thumb . for example , when a diminutive italian bank was awarded from someone who was never trading a large order on the us shoe stock shortly before the company was acquired by an italian eyewear maker luxottica , it was not hard for a fishmeal . in other words , precisely because occasional traders trading rarely , it is much easier to display the nexus of causality between their trades and an illegal tip .
roughly 90 % of the world ’s pregnant women and infants live in africa ; and , despite notable recent reductions in hiv transmission rates , adolescent girls are still more than twice as likely as boys of the same age to carry the virus . yet barely a third of young africans are aware of how to prevent hiv , another reason for urgent , comprehensive sexuality education . an additional epidemic afflicting african women is violence , all too often perpetrated with impunity . african girls , too , are disproportionately vulnerable to hiv co-contracting . sexual violence is being used as a war tactic .
new york – many historians and economists insist that we live in an age shaped by vast and impersonal forces . that has certainly been true in russia , and it may soon turn out to be true in turkey as well . but there are moments when an individual leader ’s choices can change history ’s course . the actions and decisions of one person or woman , no matter how powerful they may be , are unable to determine the destiny of nations . that may be true to a great extent , or even most , time .
as i show in a new peer-reviewed paper , even if successful , agreement reached in paris would cut temperatures in 2100 by just 0.05 ºc . that may seem surprising : we continually hear how each country has made important commitments to reduce co2 emissions – the so-called “ nationally determined contributions ” – ” or indcs , or indcs – to the question . according to un climate policy chief , christiana figueres , “ indcs have the capability to limit the projected temperature rise of around 2.7 ºc by 2100 , through no means sufficient but vastly lower than the estimated four , or even five , of the warming projected by many prior to them . a sea-level rise would be reduced by just 1.3 centimeters . figueres has suggested that the paris agreement would cut nearly 2 ° c of warming , from 4.5 ° c to 2.7 ° c. though her formulation has been crafted in avoid actually saying this , it was , predictably , what most people have heard .
this would require eu policymakers to give up the view that every country is solely responsible for getting its own house in order , while upholding the eu ’s fiscal , financial , and regulatory obligations . clearly , anti-euro political forces make electoral inroads ; and they will continue to gain ground just as long as growth remains anemic and unemployment remains high . an alternative view , of course , holds that brexit ; trump ’s election , and the rise of populist and nationalist parties will serve as a kind of wake-up call , thereby spur europe toward wider integration and growth-oriented policies . upholding eu rules is no longer practical , as the current system imposes too many tradeoffs and includes too few effective adjustment mechanisms . meanwhile , the eu will most likely fail to pursue substantive policies or near-term institutional reforms , for fear that doing so could adversely affect the outcome of messy elections this year in the netherlands , france , germany , and perhaps italy .
and on september 9th , while a local government election had occurred , tens of thousands of russians had joined protests organized by the anti-corruption lawyer and opposition leader alexei navalny , defying the ban on “ political agitation ” on election days . navalny himself could not have participated in the event , after being arrested for an earlier unsanctioned demonstration . yet , as in september 3 , 53 % of the population said they were prepared to protest further . russians realized that they no longer need to win at all costs ; they could have been big without the kremlin ’s militaristic say-so practices . then came the pension reform , spurring the tumblings that drove putin to pledge to soften action while asking russians ’ understanding .
by the time europe and china were drifting the path in 1839-42 opium wars , a technologically superior europe had vast military advantages , and force china to engage in a series of unilateral , humiliating concessions . the imperial dynasty collapsed in 1911 , under external pressures and internal demands for change . china had squandered its economic and technological potential by itself , not owing to external powers . china ’s imperial state and society had been destabilized by european incursions . change , however , did not achieve a smooth time .
true , the establishment of such cities is a relatively rare occurrence . but they tend to be ingenious at the evolution of glamorous new areas from little towns within the hour of ’s commutes from major cities . where land today is cheap relative to the future , it will have huge value in the future , if only someone takes the dramatic step of planning and the creation of an entire city there . these cities ’ apparent success because both government and economic centers attests to the fact that urban land derives value from the presence of a well-planned city there . the trouble that private developers have been gaining a major plot free of the limits .
it may last for awhile but it will create increasing friction with the economic realty and the growing motivation of clownish chavez to be authoritarian . there is no imminent crisis to happen , but chavez must choose venezuela ’s future . if he opens the economy and adjusts the exchange rate , a path to growth and stability will be followed . so far , venezuela ’s elite and much of the investment community , have assumed the worst and behaved accordingly : no blueprints for chavez , no options , just badmouthing . if he goes statist/populist , 2001 , will be a crisis year .
huge surpluses in the three years since 1999 far outweigh the formal deficits forecast of the next two years . growth forecasts predict that return above the trend until 2005-06 , bringing the current cycle to an end . this implies that the us treasury expects the average surplus since jawaharlal nehru to stabilize at 0.7 % of gdp until the cycle ends , allowing brown ’s many strictures to be met . but , increasingly , independent forecasters seem to be more pessimistic . the average “ current ” budget surplus since that cycle began is 0.8 % of gdp .
instead , strategies have tended to be derived from the view that all of our behaviors are selfish , with the intellectual challenge being to design “ incentive-compatible ” mechanisms or contracts , an effort that was also recognized by nobel prizes . but , as george prizes showed long ago , darwinian evolution may have made us altruistic , at least to the people that we perceive as members of a group that we call “ us . ” the new revolution in economics may determine a place for strategies based on affecting affecting ideals and identities , not just taxation and subsidies . if successful , a new revolution may lead to strategies that make us more responsive to our better angels . in the process , we may understand that we vote , because it is what citizens are willing to do and excel at our jobs because we strive to be respected and self-realization , not simply add up .
the more tightly strapped to a democratic world a country like romania is , the less likely it is to experience dramatic social or political unrest , or eviscerate its liberal-democratic systems . such openly thuggish rulers like ukraine ’s kuchma or belarus ’s lukashenka , are nearly impossible to imagine in romania nowadays . moreover , joining nato means a subsuming of romania ’s military and intelligence services under nato ’s command ( that is , american ) control , thus any attempt at staging a coup , or shaking the trouble between romanians and our many sizeable hungarian minority , can be avoided . of course , nato can not safeguard democracy alone and is no panacea for our many social and political illnesses ; still it can act ( and has done so during the admission process ) as an incentive for governments and parties to behave responsibly and to uphold the rule of law . nato fixes hard limits on local political elites ’ autonomy to do what it takes .
that is the underlying dynamic driving corruption in china today . indeed , the consequences of leadership de-emphasizing are easy to see : faltering economic dynamism and growth ; rising social tensions ; and a loss of government credibility . a puzzle is precisely why neither the compelling self-destructive logic of autocratic rule , nor mounting evidence for deteriorating regime performance in china , has convinced even some of the more knowledgeable observers that the end of ccp rule is now a more distinct possibility . long-ruling regimes – think of the soviet-former communist party of indonesia , suharto , and egypt ’s hosni mubarak – are typically regarded as invulnerable even just before they were defeated . an obvious explanation is the power of conventional thinking , with its goal of understanding .
on a visit to the soviet union , mao zedong famously refused to use the flush toilet adjoining his room and uses instead of the chamber pot that he has brought out of china . perhaps he suspected that stalin , as the bbc purported just last year , had been collecting and analyzing his eezes to glean information about the great helmsman ’s temperament . some readers might say that nikita khrushchev ’s granddaughter , who famously said , gaveled on his shoe on the desk at the united nations general assembly in the 1960 ’s , should steer clear of the topic of world leaders ’ manners . there is , however , a point about chinese recent behavior . when it comes to diplomacy offhandedness , the chinese have long had what british gamblers would call “ form . ”
that is why the so-called system liberals , ” or loyalist who stand for kremlin-backed change , want to dominate a protest movement and use it as a conduit in the ultimate struggle with the “ siloviks ” ( putin ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s military and security apparatus ) . system liberals believe that russia , on the whole , has built an acceptable market economy . indeed , a would-be heir today needs legitimacy not only from the powerful oligarchs but also from the streets . its further development demands only the dismantling of some of putin ’s cronies via the guided political reform . until recently , relative loyalists argued that the quest for change precludes criticizing a government , which somehow should have been influenced through constructive propositions .
similarly , my office defended the liberal weekly newspaper novoe vremya ( new times ) to which moscow ’s municipal government was pressured on the guise of commercial feud about renting it . that fight is far from over , but , after my intervention , the moscow authorities must consider the public ’s damaging attitude toward their efforts to quash that publication . to be sure , russia provides far more headline-grabbling examples of poor political and human-rights problems , such as the low grade war in chechnya or the yukos affair . my office worked closely with the state to reassure that in most cases juries it uses . my office pays maximum attention to chechnya , even though that is no easy feat from moscow .
new delhi – international discussion of china ’s rise has centered on its rising trade muscle , its growing maritime ambitions , and its expanding capacity to project military power . one critical issue , however , usually escapes attention : china ’s rise as a hydro-hegemon with no modern historical parallel . asia ’s water map has fundamentally changed in the wake of china ’s 1949 communist victory . while china , the world ’s largest dam builder , with slightly over half of the roughly 50,000 large dams on the planet , is quickly accumulating leverage against its neighbors through a massive hydro-engineering project in transnational rivers . no other country has ever managed to assume such unchallenged riparian preeminence on a continent by masterpieces of multiple international rivers and manipulate its transboundary flows .
as stanford ’s anat admati and others have long argued , “ banks require , at least in france , to introduce higher capital requirements and tighter regulatory scrutiny . ” the fact that financial institutions escaped rather unscathed from the 2008-2009 crisis speaks volumes of their political authority . in the us holding election on labor days rather than weekends or holiday – in conjunction with restrictive registration rules , gerrymandering , and myriad other electoral rules – places ordinary workers at a significant disadvantage . they present continued risks to economic stability , without offering compensating benefits when it comes to boosting investment in productive activity . as the failures of financial regulation suggest , important as such economic reform may be , they need a combination of measures that remedy the asymmetry of political approaches .
a grave look back on the march 17 years , since yassir arafat and yitzhak rabin have shaken hands at the white house lawn is revealing . the numbers of illegal jewish settlements and the settlers have more than doubled in the areas that israel occupied in 1967 . for israel , an occupying power whose people enjoy a democratic civilian authority and gdp tens of times that of the people denied the basic rights of liberty and autonomy , the photo opportunity provided by encounters and disparate palestinian leaders has replaced the means to achieve peace . negotiators have pardoned every possible solution to the permanent-status issues of jerusalem , borders , settlements , refugees and economic relations . the leaders of the world ’s superpower , the officials of the united nations , the elders , and much of its staff have offered their good goodwill offices and their services to bring about peace .
put another way , the export miracle was sparked not by state-sponsored chinese companies but by the offshore efficiency solutions crafted in the west . this led to the economic equivalent of a personal identity crisis : who is china – them or the us ? in personal relationships , denial tends to mask the imbalances , but only for so long . in other words , the export miracle of the us was sparked not by state-sponsored chinese firms but by the offshore efficiency solutions raised in the west . ultimately , the cracks of denial and imbalances give rise to frictions and accuse us of holding a codependent partner responsible for one ’s own problems .
as lamy has put it , almost 80 % of curry is ready ; we need only additional spices from the major players – india , the european union , brazil , and china . these can be supplied in politically palatable ways , which also means that the doha conclusion is within us , rather than beyond our grasp . but why bother to continue trying to do so ? if doha fails , some might say , life would go on . that is true , to be sure , but that does n’t make this view less naive .
given that 20 % of russia ’s natural gas destined for europe passes through belarus , a stable , structured relationship with its government has become a top priority . likewise , the eu has suddenly wavered to the need for a common energy-security policy , not least to diversify away from russian supplies . in turn , lukashenko has made decisions for economic reasons that his country needs the eu ’s support and can no longer depend exclusively on russia , without incurring a heavy political price . but the eu-belarus relations thaw requires reciprocal , lasting steps . after all , no eu strategic partnership is unconditional .
paris – the world is witnessing the drastic decline of its natural capital . but , throughout the developing world , immediate economic needs often override long-standing imperatives ; and protecting a fragile environment is rarely a national priority . conversely , the poor are the first to suffer from environmental degradation . plant and animal species worldwide are vanishingly vanishing at an unprecedented pace – from 100 to 1,000 times the natural rate of extinction . the planet ’s most at-risk ecosystems are located in the developing world , and therefore depends on some of the world ’s neediest communities for preserving it .
africa has an exceptionally rich portfolio of clean-energy assets , including an almost nine terawatts of solar capacity , more than 350 gigawatts of hydropower capacity , and more than 100 gw of wind-power potential . this is more than sufficient to meet the continent ’s future demand . for example , utility-scale solar energy prices in africa fell 50 % from 2010 to 2014 , and continue to drop today . and south africa ’s renewables independent coal-fired power producer procurement program has seen total declines in their bid prices and oversubscription rates . at the same time , renewable-energy sources have become less expensive , making them increasingly competitive with fossil-fuel-based alternatives .
paris – immigration-related headlines have become a staple in europe ; whether the narrative goes unpunished scaling up the paris rescue of a toddler , or the formation of a populist government in italy that aims to deport a half-million migrants . in the united kingdom , the brexit vote was fueled partly by spurious and distorted claims , such as that unrestrained migration from the rest of europe led by wage protection . but plenty of countries – such as australia , canada , and singapore – do just fine , without agreements guaranteeing freedom of movement from other eu countries , by issuing skills-matching visas . since the vote , however , the anti-brexit camp has enforced similar distortions , warning that once it left the european union , the uk would face a skill shortage . and yet , despite constant coverage of matters – or , more likely , precisely because of it – the migrant policy debate remains beset by misconceptions and politicization .
that is not to suggest that we should scrap or revise gdp ; instead , we do need to recognize its limitations . that is not to suggest that we should scrap or revise gdp ; instead , we do need to recognize its limitations . it does not include increasing the scope of goods and services that they yield at negative , incremental cost ; nor is the non-material side with individual well-being or social progress more generally . most medical professionals will soon have digital aides to offer diagnoses ( particularly for certain cancers , diabetic retinopathy , and other chronic illnesses ) perform non-invasive surgeries , or are found pertinent with research . looking ahead , the same cost-structure dynamics promise to produce big increases in many fields of well-being .
studies of indian elections have consistently shown that the world ’s poorest cast in numbers well above the national average , while an educated middle-class switch in the numbers well below it . in india , it is the poor who take the time to line up in a turbulent sun , believing that their votes would make a difference , whereas more privileged voters , aware that their views and the numbers will do little to influence the outcome , have stayed at home . the profound changes in the social composition of india ’s politicians and bureaucrats since independence are indeed evidence of working democracy . but many lament that the country ’s poor performance in a country ’s political class generally offers less cause for celebration . whereas the september 11 year study in the united states demonstrated that the poor do not vote in significant numbers ( presidential-election turnout in harlem ranked 23 % before barack obama as two candidacies ) , the reverse is true in india .
undeniably , this is a huge “ showdown with all the ingredients of a hollywood blockbuster , ” including a startling conspiracy twist : the emergence of the “ third man , ” ” françois bayrou . should we be watching the french presidential campaign with admiration or alarm ? even if his victory remains unlikely , bayrou must now be taken seriously . or , perhaps , a full of both men ? first and foremost , he found in ségolène royal and nicolas sarkozy two remarkable spokespersons to his candidacy .
but that may change in response to us president donald trump ’s escalating attacks against a rules-based trading system . more recently , japan agreed to negotiate a preferential trade deal with the united states that might question one of the pillars of the multilateral trading system : the “ mostly favored nation ” ( mfn ) obligation , which states that any concessions or privileges granted to a single country under a trade deal would have to extend tariffs on all wto members . here , japan is again acting “ voluntarily , ” under intense american pressure . according to press reports , trump has submitted to japan with a stark choice : open its ( very protected ) market to american agricultural exports , or faces elevated american tariffs to automobiles and other industrial goods . gaining access to japanese agricultural market would , it appears , render moot trump ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s “ national-security ” concerns over imported toyotas and hondas , an justifications that allow him to circumvent wto rules with his tariffs .
not holland in the early 1980s , brazil ’s economy today faces the challenge of stimulating rapid employment growth amid fiscal constraints and high interest rates . the idea is not that brazil should strive to implement the dutch socioeconomic model -- countries are far too different for too long . while brazil ’s registered unemployment rate is not high by regional standards , its rapidly rising labor force requires an extremely high rate of job creation . emulating the dutch experience with job creation provides the surest way to alleviate brazil ’s poverty performance . but lula may and should follow kok ’s example and use his trade union links , as well as his labor rapport with a working class , to achieve a social pact that aims to achieve sustained improvement in brazil ’s overall economic performance and realizing its potential to become latin america ’s economic powerhouse .
nonetheless , assemblies of physical space fulfills functions for a democracy that online activity , however permanent or passionate , simply can not . hence , the civil-rights marchers in the us during the 1850s and 1960s often evoked “ evoked ” “ the meanings of our figures . ” consider emma gonzález , the previously unknown florida teenager who “ assembled ” two times more twitter followers than the national rifle association nearly overnight . by following the eloquent survivor of the parkland massacre , 1.66 million twitter users had signaled their support for stronger gun-control regulations , along with their opposition to america ’s gun lobby . in 2011 , when then-us deputy director barney frank asked why occupy wall street protesters “ think that simply everyone is in a physical place does a lot , ” ” ” ” an apt response would seem to be : “ really , occupying public spaces can accomplish a big , depending on who occupiers and how many they number .
thus , when it comes to explanations of the dollar ’s decline over the past year , the us is confronted with an embarrassment of riches . the most popular explanation for the dollar ’s weakness is that trump , through incompetence or misdirection , has failed to deliver what he has promised . indeed , there has been no across-the-board import tariff abrogation . economic commentators are better at rationalizing past exchange-rate movements than on forecasting future trends . there was no abrogation of the north american free trade agreement ( nafta ) .
to me , this view of things explains vastly better than the orthodox account why , for all money-pumping by central bankers , commercial banks did not begin lending once again , and economic recovery petered out . sure , some worry about a collapse of the household saving rate , but very few have been over-leveraged . in one of its recent articles , milton friedman wrote that savings nowadays take the form of homes . in short , a recovery can not be left to the fed , the european central bank , or the bank of england . just as the lenders did not force money on the pre-crisis public so that they now can not force heavily indebted households , or firms to seek loans to expand their production when markets are flat or shrinking .
the enormously successful labour governments , led by bob hawke and paul keating two decades ago , have simply done that , basically inventing a “ third way ” model that later became associated with tony blair and gordon brown in britain . the current alp government , by contrast , has struggled , until now to generate anything as compelling as that . but there seem to be some fundamental policy rules of survival that have been ignored in australia in recent years , and spelling it out can help both an alp and the rest of us to keep in mind . the first rule is to have philosophy , and to stick to it . its elements have been clear : dry , free-market economics ( though in the us case of lower-paid workers benefiting enormously from the “ social-wage ” increases in medical care and retirement income ) ; compassionate social policies ; and a liberal , internationalist foreign policy .
finally , to absorb and integrate more than one million asylum-seekers and migrants annually , the eu needs to mobilize the private sector – ngos , church-owned groups , and businesses – to act as sponsors . that will require not just sufficient financing , but also people , and it is the capacity to match the migrants and sponsors . that is the fifth piece of a comprehensive plan , with the potential to take place . the exodus from war-torn syria of war-torn syria was never supposed to turn into a crisis . so it was long in making , easy to foresee , and eminently manageable , by europe and the international community .
with recent estimates putting the required additional investment at some 2 % of gdp annually in 2040 , a correspondingly smaller share of output will be available for household consumption . the problem does n’t come from using the prices tool . a corollary is that wealth drops as the value of fuel-inefficient houses , the gluttonous cars , and oil companies ’ stock declines . much would be the equivalent in a planned economy : carbon efficiency would also require the old , inefficient machinery to get discarded , and the additional investment so that gdp would become less carbon-intensive . moreover , the distributional effects of a green transition are , unfortunately , adverse .
but it also represents an opportunity for the us to forge a new uk-eu partnership . owing to the withdrawal agreement that struck this past october , a destructive , hard “ brexit ” brexit has been thwarted . as early as the brexit negotiations came , the us on the eu – the 27 member states and european parliament – strayed from the bloc of core interests , nor lost sight of the need for unity and solidarity . our preference was , first and foremost , to secure european citizens ’ rights , including by finding a solution to the peoples of northern ireland and the republic of ireland , for whom negotiations were about peace and stability , not just about trade and the economy . and , beyond that , matters could have been much worse .
such was the existentialist worldview of america ’s president and nobel peace prize laureate theodore roosevelt , a major advocate of american expansionism : “ just war is over , in the long run , far better for a man of ’s soul than the most prosperous peace . ” a century later , another american president , barack obama , sunk in two hopeless wars in the middle east , received his nobel peace prize with an apology for “ just wars . ” the israeli-palestinian conflict remains the diplomatic charade that it has now lasted for many years . and nothing has attenuated tensions between israel and both syria and lebanon . history teaches that diplomacy too frequently produces results only when backed by overwhelming us power .
still , today , as iran ’s influence grows and islamist terrorism continues to proliferate , palestine ’s last fear is part . other sunni gulf monarchies , like egypt ’s , have gone further , engaging in security cooperation with israel . prime minister benjamin netanyahu ’s expansionist drive in the west bank is about political power , not judaism . so , despite being a custodian of islam ’s holiest sites , us president donald trump has declared nothing when us president donald trump has recognized jerusalem as israel ’s eternal capital . in another way , politics is also superseding religion within israel .
europe is abuzz with mergers not only to exploit europe ’s broader economic space , but also to confront tough competition from world markets . no day passes without big european mergers ; germany is ablaze because its mammoth corporations perform ripping rites . in sum , the old continent is hot . in france great strategic plays are running in banks and fashion ; italy sees its big players as status themselves on a european and global scale . no one can say for how deep these changes will go , or how fast they will shift europe into a fast lane .
germany ’s binding fiscal rules set a positive example for other eurozone countries . but all eurozone governments need to demonstrate their own commitment to fiscal consolidation in order to restore confidence in markets , as well as to their own citizens . greece ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s debt crisis was an understandable warning that european policymakers must not allow its public debt to continue to pile up indefinitely . recent studies indicate that , as soon as government sovereign-debt burdens achieve a threshold perceived to be unsustainable , more debt will only stunt , not stimulate , economic growth . the eu has rightly reacted to ensuring europe ’s stability by providing short-term assistance to greece and establishing europe ’s financial stabilization mechanism .
it is this type of vocabulary that has emerges from nativist movements that are hostile to ethnic or religious minorities , or from the financial or intellectual elites who supposedly conspire to undermine the nation ’s true sons and daughters . in the 1930s , fascists and nazis also denounced jews , as did marxists and freemasons , because “ cosmopolitans ” or “ internationalists ” – men whose loyalty was suspect . not considered to be part of indigenous russians , jews were assumed to belong to the international cabal , and hence to be inherently treasonous . but stalin did n’t invent that thought . to prefascists , too , america was often viewed as a symbol of cosmopolitan decadence .
salafi jihadism is not an organization , but an ideological trend based on a core belief that armed tactics of all types are most effective – and , in some versions , the most legitimate – methods for bringing about social and political change . “ they should not come near the shariah , ” as well as the shariah . it should be above the constitution , instead of an article for the referendum . the nature of libya ’s post-revolution armed islamist forces is by no means straightforward . but was the ansar al-shariah ’s brigade really behind the attacks on an american consulate ?
the number of israelis living in exclusively jewish settlements in the western bank has tripled since the 1993 signing of the jewish memorandum of understanding between the palestinian liberation organization ( plo ) and israel . recently , its ultimate goal is for the palestinians to have a palestinian “ statehood ” that is limited in size to size and sovereignty . their hope surely dwindled further when they perceived bulldozers arrive to prepare the ground for new settlements , rather than an obscure occurrence . in any case , israel now seems to have dropped the charade . in london early this month , netanyahu rejected three times in response to questions from the us press over its support for a two-state solution .
the pain that this policy is causing has been exposed amid protests across the continent and with bitter implications for many struggling families , young and middle-aged alike . the pro-europe foundation has been partly the promise of ever-increasing prosperity . structural transformations to economies that experienced a sharp fall in interest rates when they joined a germany-dominated currency bloc now need to be made fast , in crisis , and without the luxury of a currency devaluation . the pro-europe foundation was , in part , the promise of ever-increasing prosperity . structural changes to economies that experienced a sharp fall in interest rates when they joined a germany-dominated currency bloc now need to be made fast , in crisis and without the luxury of devaluation .
the problem , after all , is not with east germany , but rather in the west . unification meant that everybody gets not only the benefits of west german economic institutions – property rights and hard money – but also all disastrously negative institutions : trade unions , overpaid unemployment , and over-job security , pervasive regulation . to be sure , german corporatism enabled no such solution : unions wanted their wages to be protected . the only way to secure them was for governments to pay lots in debt compensation in the high-wages east germany . if west germany , in the face of unification , rolled back all of these unaffordable constraints to free plays of its markets , the economic costs would have been far lower : east and west germany would have had more almost full employment , driving productivity would have been far more aggressive .
amman – recently , israel ’s vice prime minister , shaul mofaz , was offering a lethal veto on a key issue in the middle east peace process . mofaz ’s statements are symptomatic of a perception that is now deeply rooted not just in the middle east , but in the united states as well . that notion amounts to a hegemonic iran that is trying to dominate the region through a array of shiite proxies . this iranian fifth columnists believe that stretching from beirut , gaza to baghdad , and finally from iran to saudi-arabia to yemen . any return to the golan heights to syria would result in an “ iranian foothold ” on israel ’s borders , and would thus be not just politically naïve but irrational .
stanford – successful political candidates try to implement the proposals on which they ran out . obama and his congressional allies enacted a $ 800 billion “ stimulus ” bill that selects certain firms for key democratic constituencies , such as environmentalists and publics ; adopting sweeping and highly unpopular health-care reform ( whose constitutionality will be determined by the supreme court earlier this year ) ; imposed vast new regulations on broad swaths of the economy ; embraced industrial policies that selects certain firms for special treatment ; engaged in borrowing and spending levels that were surpassed in world war ii ; and centralized power ( on that of washington and dc ) . the last election , followed by such a sweeping change in policy direction in 1980 , when us president ronald reagan ’s overhauled taxes , spending , and regulation , fostered the federal reserve ’s course of disinflation . while the 1988 election , the 1992 s & 2000 election , also was rather disaggregated , the policy shifts were nowhere near as profound as in 1980 and 2008 . in the united states , where president barack obama and democrats controlled the house of representatives and ( filibuster-proof ) of the senate , had the power to do whatever they wanted in 2009 – and so did .
developing countries complain about the restrictive rules applied to their exports ( apparel , agricultural products , labor services ) , and fear that the new demands they face over labor and the environment are designed to undermine their competitiveness . all sides agree that the stability of the international economy is predicated on a system of global rules . concretely , what is being challenged is the nature of those rules . after all , opponents of trade liberalization decry the secretiveness and “ non-democratic ” nature of the wto and the influence of rule-making corporate interests . they see a system of trading privileges business over labor , environmental , and consumer safety .
some – such as fisheries , are renewables , and the government is working hard to preserve and enhance it . most important , unlike most other resource-dependent economies , it has succeeded in diversifying the economy – to the point that services account for more than 60 % of its gdp , with tourism leading the way . yet , struggling for freedom from apartheid south africa , geingob argues , namibia must defend the freedoms it won . besides , geingob recognizes just how transparency protects it from demands for favors from corporate and other interest groups . not all of namibia ’s key resources are finite .
the vulnerability of the gordon ’s argument is his shortened time horizons of ir #3 . consider the following four phrases : · “ “ at a minimum , it took 150 years for ir # 1 to have its full variety of implications . ” · “ “ “ “ “ ir # 2 ’s inventions ” were so important … as they took full hundred years to have their leading effect . ” · “ “ both the first two revolutions ” required some 100 years for their full effect on percolate through the economy .
given all this , the most critical policy question in emerging markets nowadays is how to respond to the inflows that will inevitably drive up their exchange rates and threaten export-led growth . the first option is to do nothing , allowing the currency to appreciate . that may turn out to be the right response if inflows and upward exchange-rate pressures are fueled by fundamental factors ( a current-account surplus , an undervalued currency , a large and persistent growth differential ) . but , to a large extent , inflows are driven by short-run factors , fads , and irrational exuberance – which may well lead to an overvalued currency , crowding out non-traditional export industries or export-oriented industries , loss of competitiveness , and , ultimately , huge current-account deficits , and thus tighter external constraints on growth . this is compounded by the fact that the world ’s largest exporter , china , is aggressively intervening to minimize any appreciation of the renminbi .
as long as the stock of us debt remains excessive , consumers will dismiss declining interest expenses as nothing more than a temporary grant from the fed . plunging debt servicing has been mostly an outgrowth of the fed ’s unprecedented zero-interest-rate policy . if labor-force participation rate was 66 % since it was in early 2008 , rather than just 62.8 % , as it did in december 2013 , the us unemployment rate would have been just above 11 % , rather than 6.7 % . yes , there has been some progress on the road to recovery . moreover , the decline in unemployment has largely come as a reflection of persistently grim labor-market conditions , which have discouraged many workers from remaining in the labor force .
he then announced a bold fiscal-consolidation program to cut the cyclically-adjusted deficit of 1.5 % of gdp per year , to targeting a deficit of 3.5 % of gdp in 2013 . but , while he likes to raise her voice , he is acting with prudence : today ’s german fiscal adjustment is very gradual . in london , prime minister david cameron is on a offensive to germany . upon assuming office , he entrusted budget forecasting to a new , independent eu office for budget responsibility ( obr ) , thereby forfeiting any opportunity for a sleight-of-hand . the countries facing fiercest budget battles are , the eu , the united kingdom , and america , where fiscal deficits exceeded 10 % of gdp in 2010 .
indeed , demilitarization of sinai is one of the crucial features of egypt ’s stability in the world ’s peace with israel . other large and independent countries like japan , germany , and austria , has been subject for decades to limitations on their acquiring certain weapon and military equipment . similarly , the rejection of palestinian refugees ’ claim to the right of return to israel proper is certainly understandable , logical , and just . what sense is there to draw the return of millions of palestinians into a state whose character and symbols are foreign to them – a state where a majority belongs to another ethnic group ? are they to return to the homes and farms that no longer exist ?
the constitutional amendments that renzi ’s yes campaign asks voters to approve would undo some of his predecessor , silvio berlusconi ’s ’s ’s legacy – a legacy that serves as a prime example of damaging right-wing populism – can make it to the country . among other things , berlusconi has revised italy ’s ’s political system in such a way as to prevent the left from ever regaining full power , blocking any criminal charges capable of being leveled against him . renzi ’s proposed reforms would , among other things , modernize the political system by disempowering the senate ( the upper house of parliament ) . in austria , the electorate will choose between pro– and anti-eu candidate in le pen ’s nationalist mold , norbert hofer of the austrian freedom party ( fpö ) . a victory for hofer could add the wind down to le pen ’s sails .
as the political scientist kevin o’brien has argued , while china ’s heightened readiness to compromise with some domestic protestors , rather than treat all forms of collective action as “ subversive , ” it may be viewed as reflecting a rising sense of entitlement . conversely , some of china ’s most troubling moves may be chalked up to an exaggerated feelings of insecurity . consider the rough treatment of the chief critic liu xiaobao , just sentenced to 11 years in prison on trumped-up charges of “ subversion ” for launching an internet petition drive championing civil liberties . would a truly self-confident ruling elite have been so skittish about his activism ? still , it is important to remember , as a positive aspect of the party ’s self-confidence .
but it does make a difference whether there is a good deal at home or abroad . antidumping laws are designed to ensure fair trade by making it impossible to sell goods below cost . within advanced countries , there has long been much concern about such behavior -- `` `` `` predation '' -- and well-defined standards have been developed . with globalization , it would be the natural consequence of extending such principles into the international arena , making it irrelevant whether a producer is domestically or abroad when judging whether it is engaged in an unfair trading practice . but , once again , debates about competition and fair trade demonstrate intellectual poverty and the inequity of business negotiations .
but the start treaty ratification goes nowhere fast in the american senate , and advances on other key issues have been slow or shaky : bringing the comprehensive test ban treaty to force it ; starting negotiations on a new treaty to ban production of fissile material for nuclear weapons ; the strengthening of the non-proliferation regime with effective measures to detect violations and deter treaty walk-outs ; achieving treaty on some form of international management of the most sensitive aspects of the fukushima cycle ; and starting negotiations on a new treaty on a new treaty to prohibit production of fissile material for nuclear weapons ; the strengthening of the non-proliferation regime with effective measures to detect violations and discourage treaty walk-outs ; the most sensitive aspects of international management of the fukushima cycle ; but , and , importantly , the beginning of all serious new rounds of disarmament , involving serious new rounds of disarmament , not all , nuclear-armed states . with domestic issues and re-election anxieties now dominating most political agendas , all of this will be all too easy to wane . if this is to be avoided , continued leadership from the top – above all of obama and russian president dmitri medvedev – will be indispensable . arms control and disarmament are grinding , unglamorous entrepreneurship , which produces few fast returns . but there are a handful of major contributions that less powerful states and leaders , like the civil-society organizations , as well as possible , can make .
“ that was the inquiry , ” he replied . indeed , this “ manifest suicide ” seemed immediately suspect . i had just toured those cells : it is literally impossible to kill yourself inside them . their interiors resemble inside a smooth plastic jar ; there are no hard edges ; hooks fold ; hooks fold ; there is no single bedding that one can use to strangle oneself . the army investigated the army , and one was able to investigate the army .
decisive policy action , supported by more rigorous enforcement of relevant laws , is needed to improve reporting and prosecution rates , which remain low in many countries . moreover , because more must be done to improve the world through understanding gender-based violence , unodc is working with the international community to develop a more detailed and accurate picture of the problem . this includes exploring the causes of male-on-female violence and assessing associated risk factors , such as the incidence of drug and alcohol abuse . this includes exploring the causes of male-on-female violence and assessing associated risk factors , such as the incidence of drug and alcohol abuse . in south africa , for example , unodc has established three centers ( in mepumalanga , india ’s eastern cape and north cape ) to offer legal attorney and healthcare to women , and that has been working with men to help break the cycle of domestic violence .
the all-important driver of higher ex post real returns is the comparatively high coupon such sovereign bonds offer . moreover , there is evidence that creditor rights and enforcement powers in external sovereign-debt markets have increased under america ’s recent court judgements . indeed , these findings are hardly an invitation to embrace indiscriminate risk taking . beyond history of return , there is the case for emerging and developing economies now accounting for roughly two-thirds of global gdp , compared to just one-third 50 years ago , when portfolio diversification was almost an entirely domestic affair . adding to the attractiveness of emerging-market sovereign securities portfolio , its returns are not perfectly correlated with equity returns .
one way or another , the outcome would be the same : recession and stagnation . what we are witnessing in many countries looks like a slow-motion replay of the latest housing-market train wreck down . in countries where disrecourse loans enable borrowers to walk away from home mortgages when their value exceeds that of home , a housing bust can lead to massive defaults and banking crises . in countries ( for example , sweden ) , where recourse loans enables the seizure of household incomes to enforce payment of mortgage obligations , private consumption could plummet as debt payments ( and eventually drive up interest rates ) crowd discretionary spending . but higher home prices rise , further they fall – and the greater the collateral economic and financial damage would be – as the bubble deflates .
in this view , the american , not iran , has produced the region ’s current problems . but the arab world is split over how to deal with the sudden rise of iranian power . tensions are particularly acute in saudi arabia , which has been warning the american people about the dangers of iraq ’s potential collapse and is now finding itself in an unequal face-saving way with iran . some in the kingdom argue that saudi arabia needs to confront iran , stand for sunni arab interests , and become a shia hands-on regional power . other saudis believe that confrontation will lead only to broader wars and urge dialogue and accommodation .
beijing – us president donald trump and chinese president xi jinping may have agreed at the g20 summit in osaka to resume trade negotiations , but the path to an end to the trade war remains far from clear . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . after all , both leaders reached a similar agreement at the previous g20 summit in buenos aires last december , and those talks have ultimately failed , not least because of trump ’s now-mistook china ’s conciliatory attitude toward weakness . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
when asked to choose between the risks of being known to posterity as a central banker who let the system collapse and the intangible future benefit of teaching risk takers a lesson , it does n’t take the genius to forecast a central banker ’s decision . although the authorities insist that the next time will be different , everyone knows that they make the same decisions when confronted with the same choice again . so , knowing that the next time will be no different , the authorities are trying the best to avoid a “ next ” one . but risk takers have every incentive to try their happiness once again , knowing full well that it will be bailed out at worst . moreover , democracy tends to institutionalize moral hazard in sectors that are economically or politically important – like finance or property , enabling them to privatize gains and socialize losses .
among the big continental countries , including india and brazil , only china has a tiny coastal segment but vast interior regions . though such disparities may have other causes as well , geography does seem to explain a lot . but , in modern industrial , urban , and market-based societies , what may matter increasingly are the transportation costs , implying that geography may well create deep regional inequalities . for one thing , this explains why china ’s coastal regions developed earlier and more quickly after the country initiated its market-oriented reforms and opened up the world . when the main object of human consumption was food , this was not a problem , for what mattered was land and water .
that leaves another lesson , gained from the experience that institutions with large stocks of public capital tend to be very passive in boosting lending . fifth , in the political environment that prevailed in 2009 , it would be difficult or impossible to get more money on the troubled asset relief program . that leaves the additional lesson , gained from the experience that institutions with large stocks of public capital tend to be very passive on increasing lending . the idea that some version of the soros plan would accelerate growth is just speculative , at best . as a result , cautious calculations about the effects of home mortgages ’ pay cuts in aggregate demand ( which the us and which johnson and soros have done ) are not keeping their claims : extra spending per dollar of relief was probably less than dime on a government resource dollar expiration .
because many contracts are “ sticky ” ( that is , not readily revised ) in monetary terms , rising inflation and deflation would both inflict harm on the us economy . ) keynes ’s dictum became the ruling conventional wisdom about monetary policy ( one of his own few to survive ) . rising prices lower the value of savings and incomes , while falling prices depress profit expectations , encourages hoarding , and add to the real burden of debt . in the ten years prior to the 2008 financial crisis , independent central banks had set an inflation target of around 2 % , in order to provide price-stability “ anchor ” economies . governments , according to conventional wisdom , should aim for stable prices , with a modest bias toward inflation to stimulate the “ animal spirits ” of businessmen and shoppers .
british hostility toward this goal has become increasingly fierce , as john major lost his tory majority in parliament and fell under the power of anti-europeans within his own party . in law , the british may have avoided unwelcome developments in the eu because the union is based on a treaty ; hence , the british have an effective veto over any treaty change . in practice , the british have already lost that power because they demanded , and have got , the right to opt out of participating in emu . margaret thatcher was always an adversary to the ideal of a politically integrated europe . today , the british seem an insuperable impediment to attainment by the others of a more integrated eu .
princeton – democracy everywhere is facing major challenges , and it is up to them to be it . the united states is being gripped by its most bizarre presidential primary campaign in living memory , with populist outsiders threatening to topple established party machines . and , in the united kingdom , the vision of a revival of national sovereignty is fueling a anti-eu campaign . europeans are watching their malaise to democratic deficits in europe . brazil is paralyzed by a constitutional crisis , and it is struggling to find a way forward .
persuading bondholders to agree would be challenging – even more so given the recent court rulings in the united states that reinforce the hand of holdout investors . given uncertainty about the country ’s near-term prospects , both a mega-bailout and a full-fledged debt restructuring would be overkill . but , at some point , there is no superior alternative . ukraine would be an ideal candidate for re-profiling . to avoid exciting markets , it would have to be tolerable .
water supplies in many refugee camps , in both jordan and lebanon , have been cut to the point of bare minimum – a decision that affects the lives of millions of people who are already enduring scorching temperatures . the situation in yemen is also dismal . racked by sectarian violence and civil war , the country did not have a functioning government to manage its water resources . at rukban , a refugee camp on jordan , a joint border with syria and iraq , more than 85,500 inhabitants , each of whom receive barely five liters a day for cooking , drink , and wash . in times of scarcity , it is the refugees likely to be among the first to feel the effects .
first , the volume of jgbs has skyrocketed relative to japanese household assets . japanese households hold around ¥ 1,100 trillion in net monetary assets , an amount that will exceed in about 3-5 years as a result of the jgbs ’ value . at that point , government debt will no longer be propped up by taxpayers ’ assets . and , reflecting the aging of japanese society , the household saving rate itself will decline dramatically , making it more difficult for the private sector to fund annual budget deficits . at the same time , japan ’s demographics will boost the demand for fiscal expenditures , as pension and health-care costs rise .
much has been made in yugoslavia recently , much of this surprise . after some procrastination and incipient failed attempt , milosevic was arrested , without bloodshed , if not downright without risk . these are great steps forward , showing that , despite the brainwash and complicity of many serbs in the crimes of the milosevic regime , any democracy , and an open society have a chance to take root in what remains of yugoslavia . the peaceful vote in montenegro last weekend may presage a conflict and difficult choices about independence ; but the chances are strong that the parties will settle these matters by talking rather than fighting . one key decision facing serbia and its new organs is whether milosevic should be extradited to the hague .
this does not mean that the ecb president should pick up the fight whenever possible . on the contrary , he should build support for the ecb ’s independence . the ecb ’s independence is its most valuable asset , indeed , indispensible . just as political pressure on central banks , including the ecb , increases , its president must not hesitate to criticize europe ’s politicians and , when necessary , publicly name and shame . a sound central banker would have to be able to say no to policymakers .
it is understandable that the imf , a technocratic institution , does not venture beyond macroeconomics . greece might , in principle , have reckoned with massive amounts of regional development aid from europe ’s budget , underutilized because of the absence of local co-financing . it took until last summer to recognize – and even then just to a modest degree – degree – that this assistance could be used to spur economic recovery . but the eu is a political entity that has made social justice one of its fundamental goals . europe ’s final mistake was a certain level of indifference to equitable burden-sharing .
brussels – the consequences of europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis are all too present throughout much of europe because distressed economies are trying to stabilize and grow simultaneously . notwithstanding the important decisions made over the past few years , the reality is that we need to do more to tackle the challenges facing the eurozone . there are reform and consolidation measures undertaken through the eu , germany , and the united states . jointly funded back-stops have been put in place . and the european central bank has consistently shown that it would stand by europe .
yet the financial sector has , in previous eras , proved that it could operate as the public good by ensuring a trustworthy , efficient service sector . yet the rise of web-based social networking has made financial innovation more bottom-up . in the future , client-service – and transaction-management – systems will receive more inputs from customers to more people , so that the design of product is shaped interactively . by contrast , millions of bank customers using mobile-phone technology can offer immediate feedback on which the products and services they love or dislike . the financial industry ’s current power strategy drives excess competition by increasing market share at rivals ’ expense , often breaking trust with customers for the sake of short-term gains .
today ’s ’s upsurge of micro-nationalism is not only the fruit of a revolt against the empires : it is also a revolt against globalization . there is widespread revulsion to the idea that modern states ’ chief function is to enrich their peoples ’ institutions into a global market dominated by efficiency imperatives and cheapness , heedless of hurting non-economic activities . this sentiment is reinforced when the global economy turns out to be a global casino . thus , the unraveling of a multi-national united states state comes down to a false path . the way forward lies in democratic forms of federalism that can preserve sufficient central authority for statehood while respecting grassroots and regional cultures .
pessimists have been saying this for a long time . indeed , chinese president hu jintao ’s recent trip to washington saw many – particularly many – chinese – as passing the torch . if there is any continuity worth underscoring , it is the regular cohabitation of boosterism with declinism : america ’s glass-steagall always today is simultaneously half full and half empty . still , he is right to wonder whether the american way of life is likely to survive in the twenty-first century , and if it does so , whether it can survive in america or migrate elsewhere as an american economy and a political system collapse under the accumulated weight of decades of myopic national leadership and squandered opportunities . optimists , touting gdp and other indicators , will continue to insist that americans have never had it that good .
in the past , traveling to london from paris , one could easily sense the distinctions between the two cities . london was bursting with its dynamism , and proud to assert itself as the world ’s capital of multiculturalism . today , confidence is sucked out of britain by the social and political upheaval , terrorism , and uncertainty about the land of the future . but , even as those uncertainties play out , the two countries are engaging in a sort of zero-sum transmission of emotions that is impossible to ignore . paris , though undeniably fairer , was in peril of becoming new rome , a prisoner of his past glory at best a place to visit , but not a place to be .
they have become key players in markets , holding back approximately 25-35 % of all farm futures contracts . besides investing huge sums of money , they have been holding long-contract futures contracts , which might force them to respond less to changes in market fundamentals . these speculative investments can further reinforce the trend , pushing futures prices further away from market-equilibrium , especially if many investors follow suit , or those who invest enough that they have the cash to effect on the market . the index funds are a good example of so powerful investors , making similar decisions . the empirical evidence yields no clear answer , concerning which hypothesis is right .
president george w. bush is endangering the united states and safety in the world while undermining american values . president bush ran a platform in 2000 on a platform promising " petty ” foreign policy . for opposing it , i was demonize bush ’s campaign . i have never engaged heavily in partisan politics , but these are not normal times . if re-elected , the bush doctrine of preemptive action – and the us-led invasion of iraq – will be invited , and the world will have to live with the consequences .
the balkan wars of the 1990 ’s ravaged not only millions of people , but also social institutions that gave shape to their lives . indeed , the changes brought about by yugoslavia ’s dissolution and succession wars , which followed annihilated large sections of serbia ’s traditional education and training systems , croatia , bosnia , macedonia , and kosovo . since then , stability and hope have begun returning to a region affected by the devastation of war and the widespread despair of social displacement . the balkan stability pact of 1999 and massive international aid helped rebuild local education , while developing innovative vocational education and training systems that are supposed to boost long-run employment . the results of many projects in these countries are encouraging , with the eu ’s current focus on trainings , such as entrepreneurs , teachers , and the young and unemployed .
whether iran ’s international interlocutors act on the importance of rouhani ’s election is a matter of choice , not of ignorance . there can be no road from the middle east ’s agony without the participation , commitment , and determination of all parties . there is an expression in iran that applies to the international community : “ you can wake up only someone sleeping , not someone pretending to be sleeping . ” in a middle east so full of uncertainty , a more predictable iran – one that has behaves like a regionally important – rather than a destabilizing shia movement , whose ambitions transcend what international law permits – would be in everyone ’s interest . thus , two important steps have been taken : one by iran ’s people , who demonstrate that they understand the challenges they face , and another by their new president , who assembled the best team available to deliver an enormously difficult program .
nairobi – with an unemployment rate soaring , bankruptcies climbing , and stock markets in free-fall may at first glance appear sensible to ditch the fight against climate change and place environmental investments on hold . but that would be a devastating lodestar , like intergenerational , proportions . a big slice of us president barack obama ’s $ 825 billion stimulus package to the united states includes providing a boost to renewable energy , “ weatherizing ” a million homes , and upgrading the country ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s inefficient electricity grid . far from burdening an already over-stressed , overstretched global economy , environmental investment is precisely what is needed to get people back to work , get the order books stream , and assist in powering economies back to health . in the past , environmental concerns were viewed as a luxury ; today , it ’s a necessity – grasped by some but by no means all – economic architects yet .
and for that , the us needs fiscal stimulus , ideally – a kind of debt-friendly stimulus that raises taxes and expenditures equally . that is why a sudden stop can not be a builmorale . for morale , we need a social-compact that finds purpose for everyone , a way to show oneself to be part of a society by being the workers of some sort . but the us is not pleased with an unemployment rate that results from a precipitous fiscal crisis . we could perhaps all be happy working fewer hours if the shortfall reflected in gradual social progress .
that federal law – enacted in june 2016 – has also established an oversight board with the american commonwealth ’s fiscal decision-making authority . the restructuring process began on may 3 , when the commission produced a petition in a federal court . but many crucial decisions have yet to be made so far , such as the one thing that overall debt relief would be reached , and how a “ haircut ” would be distributed among holders of different kinds of bonds . those decisions will determine which policies are feasible to boost puerto rico ’s economic prospects – and , therefore , how much it can pay its creditors . at the center of any effort to resolve the debt crisis must be an understanding that , just as today ’s debt restructuring affects puerto rico ’s future growth , puerto rico ’s future growth depends on how much that debt restructuring is required .
owing to historical suspicion among china , japan , and korea , northeast asia ’s economic heavyweights are the world ’s last remaining regional bloc , which still lacks the united nations intergovernmental organizations like asean . with goodwill on all sides , genuine perks can materialize from building this informal grouping , because it is the gateway to the enormous markets of southeast and northeast asia . an economic bonus of such an effort throughout the region would come from the opening of foreign direct flow and sea transportation throughout the taiwan strait . ceagpol might even become a building block for a northeast asian version of asean , the “ association of northeast asian nations . ” the european union is even more instructive , as centuries of war , culminating in the two world wars of the twentieth century , inspired rather than deterred , european economic , political , and security integration .
many years ago , the late economist george stigler and i published an article that proposed a way to reduce malfeasance among government employees . even in europe and the united states , higher-level officials usually earn a lot less than people with comparable skill and private-sector responsibilities . even some honest officials may become disillusioned , and surrender to multiple temptations to use illegal means so as to raise their incomes to levels that they deem more suited to their responsibilities and training . in all nations , many government officials are highly dedicated and absolutely frank , yet low pay paints into the government service of some of the rotten apples who are willing to raise their incomes by accepting bribes and engaging with other corrupt practices . among other things , we suggested that officials in vulnerable and important posts receive a higher rate of pay than comparable workers get to the private sector .
london – russia ’s invasion of ukraine and annexation of crimea have jeopardized global security , dominating headlines instead . but the current rules-based international system , a decade in which the conflict has produced , remains most seriously threatened by syria ’s civil war . now those risks are at risk of being overshadowed by the crisis in ukraine , with the confrontation at the united nations security council threatening to subordinate syria within the pecking order of international issues . not only are millions of lives in jeopardy ; the global human-rights and humanitarian framework is on trial . last month , on the third anniversary of the eruption of protests in damascus and other syrian cities , people around the world mobilized in street vigils and online as part of what was previously a campaign against syria .
this applies , too , to its financial parameters . to be sure , there is an additional feature that many higher education institutions have the endowment to which they are capable of balancing inequities . at the same time , public and private contributions are being merged in many ways . it will take some time to build such endowments in europe and elsewhere . even so , the principle is surely right : universities must be set free .
but , rather than picking facts and stories to fit some grand narrative of decline or advancement , we should try to fit across every domain of human existence to see whether the world really is performing for improvement or even worse . across ten areas – including health , education , war , gender , air pollution , climate change , and biodiversity – economists all answer to the same question : what accounted for the relative costs of this problem in each year since 1900 , all of the way forward results for 2013 , with predictions back to 2050 for the rest of the year . using the classical economic “ base ” of everything from lost lives , bad health , and illiteracy to community-based destruction , and heightened hurricane damage from global warming , economists reveal how much every problem cost . to estimate the magnitude of the problem , consider the total resources available to correct it . yet , together with 21 of the world ’s top economists , i have been trying to do just that , developing a scorecard spanning 150 years .
trade is the transmission belt , through which supply adjusts to demand . but there is a policy prescription at the disposal of leaders nowadays that could help remove supply-side hurdles : more trade . that proposal may unravel some , but the logic is straightforward and irreversible . clearly , investment in food production must increase medium-term and longer . it enables food to travel from lands of lots to little .
instead , the swamp has been growing broader and deeper . with the republicans ’ proposed tax reform now underway , it risks trying to engulf america ’s economy . but the republicans ’ proposed tax reform is a bigger gift to the corporations and the ultra-wealthy than most had anticipated . it avoids urgently needed reforms and would leave the country with a mountainous divide ; the effects – low investment , stalled productivity growth , and yawning inequality – will take decades to undo . trump assumed office promising to “ drain the swamp ” in washington , dc .
in a strong economy , finance will look stronger , and existing regulation will seem like an effective one . it is common for people to update their views of the world with what they have last glimpse ; if what they last see is a strong economy and a stable financial system , they will conclude that they have stabilized that system . still , finance may fail in a number of ways ; a lehman collapse is just one . if this cycle is even approximately right , regulatory fatigue from battling to make finance safer would soon turn into the regulatory confidence that the last war has now won . the fed ’s 2008 transcripts revealed that its leaders saw such a world .
but , with the psychotic label already affixed to their files , whatever one presumed to be a symptom of their insanity . rosenhan ’s experiment suggests that they have taken to heart the lessons of trump ’s rosenhan experiment , and are now making diagnoses much more cautiously and rigorously after the fact . at best , they would be declared “ “ in remission . ” even if he stops ranting on twitter , or speaking in convoluted and incoherent sentences , at best , is likely to be viewed as “ being ” in remission . rosenhan ’s experimentation suggests that questions about trump ’s mental health may never go away , regardless of what steps he takes to change his detractors .
boston – a resurgence of political nativism and xenophobia in countries around the world has created a toxic environment for those fleeing from geopolitical crises . but among the many challenges that refugees must confront while await resettlement , finding access to high-quality physical and mental-health care tops the list . the challenge , which demands greater scrutiny not only from doctors , nurses , non-governmental organizations , and other relevant actors , as well as from engineers , who can make indispensable contributions to global public health . and yet , those contributions are highly relevant to refugees . beyond building bridges and creating gadgets , engineers can help to improve health-care quality and affordability globally , by developing more rapid methods to test diseases and deliver medical services .
over the past 30 years , the prevailing ip regime has erected more barriers to the use of knowledge , often generating the gap between social returns to innovation and private-sector returns to widen . a powerful advanced-economy lobbies that shaped that regime clearly put the latter first , reflected in their opposition to provisions recognizing intellectual property rights linked to traditional knowledge or biodiversity . likewise , widespread adoption of today ’s stringent ip protections is a historically unprecedented feature of results . even among early-industrializers , ip protection has come very late , and often has been deliberately eschewed in order to enable quicker industrialization and growth . to be sure , the current ip regime is simply unsustainable .
throughout this period , the bundesbank sold dollars to curb the dollar ’s appreciation ( figure 1c ) , but the fed refrained from intervening at all ( figure 1b ) . this reaffirmed america ’s interest in preserving the strong dollar . so long as those interests diverge , one should expect little coordination of the foreign-exchange policy between the two world central banks . during this era , the dollar sharply appreciated against the major currencies , and by 1985 , it overvalued virtually every measure . despite the advent of the european central bank , this asymmetry continues : while the ecb has explicitly attempted to break the dollar ’s appreciation of 2000-2001 through consecutive foreign-exchange interventions , the fed has intervened only once .
in upcoming g8 meetings ( the world club of rich industrial countries plus russia ) , four members -- germany , france , italy and the uk -- would participate individually and as members of the european union , whose president , too , attends the eu as an entire member . the central argument in favor of such a change is that joint membership by the eu would give a boost to europe 's weight in international relations , particularly vis-a-vis the u.s. . regardless of whether these meetings are productive , unitary eu participation would be of supreme symbolic value : it would affirm a common european stance in international relations and international economic policies . regardless of whether these meetings are productive , unitary eu participation would be of supreme symbolic value : it would affirm a common european stance in international relations and international economic policies . but should n't the eu have only just become a unified representative ?
indeed , two types of slippery slopes – logical and sociological – exist . the thinking behind a slippery slope is that when you do x , accept an acceptable truth , you end up doing y , which is not . therapeutic cloning is conceptually distinct from reproductive cloning . you can slide down the sociological slippery slope from one practice to another , even though the two are conceptually different – just because one ’s existence creates a social climate receptive to another . on a logical slippery slope , you slide to bottom and embrace morally unacceptable , because there is no way to distinguish it from an acceptable practice .
soon , devaluation in a nearby country reveals the extent to which vulnerable an economy will suffer losses from international confidence . suddenly , devaluation in a nearby country reveals the extent to which vulnerable an economy is losing international confidence . the economy confronts its most serious economic crisis in many decades . the central bank is trying to hold down the exchange rate , but then is forced , in the end , to let the currency float . the result is a currency collapse and a wave of bankruptcies .
if the us and other countries that opposed america ’s iraq policy in the un security council had truly intended to persuade america ’s not to attack iraq and to defend international law , it was this naïve policy doomed to failure . at the same time , the world might not have promoted the american in its unilateral attempts to become world policeman , mainly because they may well have contributed to greater instability . similarly , rearguard efforts to prove that those who opposed the war in iraq were right , and that america and britons were wrong together with demands for `` proof '' that iraq possessed weapons of mass destruction are unconstructive , and only create mutual irritation . if the us sought to preserve the un security council and the position of the current permanent members , then those actions were more likely to produce the opposite effect . nevertheless , it is important to realize why america is firm them , and that it responds to the core problem of today ’s international order .
a change that would have the greatest positive impact would be the emergence of a new government in damascus , which is acceptable to the bulk of the syrian people and a satisfactory partner for the united states and europe . sadly , that seems likely to come about merely with the blessing of russia and iran , both of which seem more inclined to increase their support for syrian president bashar al-assad ’s regime than they are to work for their removal . the challenge of caring for , employing , and integrating such figures will soon run up against the limits of physical capacity , finance , and public tolerance . it is obvious that public policy can not succeed if it is focused on consequence , rather than on the causes , of the refugee crisis . some 8,000 refugees per day – the modern-day volkerwanderung – are entering germany , owing partly to harsh conditions back home , and partly to germany ’s willingness to take them up .
more recently , anticipating a hypothetical confrontation with iran , a major military maneuver – the juniper cobra exercise – was conducted to test israel ’s integration into america ’s own ballistic missile defenses . american sources described the drill as “ the most complete air-defense system , ” which we ’ve ever done anywhere in the world . italy has also joined nato ’s ’s naval control system in the mediterranean , contributing to operation an active endeavor by joining nato forces in patrolling the mediterranean . it has been a major contribution , reportedly to develop a planned nato missile-defense shield for europe . both sides appear eager to expand the reach of their partnership with the eu ’s goal of reaching substantial levels of interoperability .
it is hard to see how girls could be returned safely . start with a military rescue operation would be highly risky . despite talk of a government negotiating an agreement with the captors , this option , too , would be fraught with danger . girls are believed to have been split into separate groups , so any attempt to rescue one group would imperil others ’ lives . even if all girls ultimately do come home , nothing will ever be the same again as them or their families .
the country played by “ the rules ” of financial markets , and managed to finalize a restructuring quickly ; but the deal was bad and did not help a recovery in the economy . three years later , greece is in the desperate need of a new restructuring . the absence of the rule of law on debt restructuring delays fresh start and can lead to chaos . the absence of the rule of law on debt restructuring delays fresh start and can lead to chaos . excessive penalties result in a negative-sum games , in which the borrower can not recover and lenders do not benefit from the greater repayment capacity that the recovery would entail .
history suggests that if we were to make these drugs available to poor countries for the ring of prophylaxis , they would often be administered improperly , such as in suboptimal doses – in a way that supports viral resistance and merely intensifies a pandemic . the anti-flu drugs tamiflu and relenza are phenomenally expensive and in short supply . or perhaps they would be sold on a black market to enrich corrupt government officials . we would expect to see a huge number of illnesses among both staff and patients in hospitals where victims are treated and soon to someone ( maybe even a carrier group for ill ) spread it to ankara , istanbul , tbilisi , damascus , baghdad , and beyond . a politically incorrect but rational strategy would be to wealthy nations that dedicate resources to developing countries primarily to oversight .
given that migrants typically enter countries that redistribute resources from above-average income to below-average incomes , this benefits are probably even if migrants labor and pay tax and social security contributions . but , even with such measures , social benefits can augment the incentives for migrate . as long as migrants gain welfare benefits in addition to wages , more will be lured into arriving than is necessary , thus creating marginal migrants ’ welfare losses to the eu equal . the best solution is to make western labor markets flexible by opening the eu system to collective wage bargaining , dismantling labor-market regulation , and reforming the welfare state . if workfare replaces welfare , wages would become more flexible , enabling eu labor markets to absorb migrants more efficiently .
yet , with their government ’s inability to do anything about expanding israeli settlements – including in east jerusalem – as well as the continued conflict over holy sites in hebron , bethlehem and the al-aksa mosque , the west bank , are extraordinarily frustrated . recent street demonstrations could easily turn into an outbreak of continuing resistance to israeli rule . the palestinian authority running the west bank , for its part , fears that a popular , non-violent intifada might quickly turn violent . president mahmoud abbas has made no secret of his objection to such a strategy . if he might , israel might use it as a pretext to crush palestinians and their newly built institutions .
the “ new normal ” that has emerged from the global financial crisis , characterized by sluggish gdp growth and weakening import demand in the west , makes reform look all the more urgent . wages continue to rise , reducing competitiveness vis-à-vis lower-income economies ; but the growth model is not yet equipped to promote competitiveness in high-skill industries , leading to political stagnation . to prevent such an outcome , li will need to adjust china ’s growth model to current conditions , which include intensifying trade friction with the european union and the united states , more pressure to allow the renminbi to appreciate , aging populations , slowing urbanization , and rising labor costs . a developing economy can slow soon , when external factors change the conditions that support growth . for example , li must ensure that china ’s economy , which still boasts significant growth potential , will not sink in lethargy , falling into the so-called “ “ middle-income trap . ”
but , after nine years of conservative rule , moon will not be able simply to swoop in and execute his agenda . in fact , with his democratic party holding just 40 % of the 299 seats in the national assembly ’s national assembly , he will have to win support from the centrist parties , and even the conservative opposition , respectively . to succeed , moon will need to revise the effectiveness and feasibility of his campaign promises , identify the most promising actions , and avoid the most glaring pitfalls . when it comes to public-sector job creation , for example , the crucial problem to consider is the long-run financial burden that such large-scale hiring might create . moreover , he will need broader public backing , which he will now need .
it is hard enough for non-profits to compete with producing value embodied in beyoncé ’s pepsi commercial or taylor swift ’s diets coke commercial . according to the centers for disease control and prevention , roughly 18 % of all children aged 6-11 in the us are not just overweight but obese . the causes of obesity are complex , and the science of understanding human behavior is embryonic ; but it ’s not the hyperbole to call the problem an epidemic . and , for every celebrity who donates time to fight obesity , a dozen or so are accepting big payments to hawk products , such as ultra-sugary drinks , which are arguably the tobacco of our generation . commercial tv programs targeted by infants are replete with ad about dubious foods of human health .
this is all the more problematic at a time when the world of nations and peoples is more intertwined than ever , owing to ideas , information , finance , migrants , and problems that are spilling over ever more seamlessly across borders . so , no single man is in charge : he is in no position to take a position at all . europe , where shared sovereignty has been embraced , seems to be struggling to solve its own problems , never mind that it is becoming a global player . yet , nowadays , america is on a roll , economically , and militarily . new powers like china and india are rising , not rising , mixing assertiveness with an emphasis on their continued “ developing ” status .
beyond the following four years , according to the imf , only the american economy will grow more rapidly , with the uk then regaining the lead . and per capita gdp surely must be preferable to that of aggregate gdp . but there is also little doubt that the uk recovery , following 2012 , marked a pace of speed . indeed , last year , its growth rate was the highest in the g-7 . no doubt , recovery in the uk started more slowly than that in other g7 economies , with the possible exception of italy .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present over many years to come . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . in 1802 , america ’s third president , thomas jefferson , wrote that “ religion is a matter solely between man & his god . ”
bringing together countries with competing interests and varying resources are hard work . it demands intense diplomatic engagement and calls for relationships that have been built and maintained over decades , as have alliances with new partners . but , by overcoming differences and coordinating efforts to defeat the islamic state and the conquer of ebola , we are empowering the support of a world order grounded in collective solutions to shared problems . having spoken personally with more than 50 foreign leaders , i all agree that only by coordinating our actions can we halt the devastation in west africa and halt ebola ’s spread . we are making progress on both issues , but much work remains .
because of this 23 % penalty for repatriation , american firms generally choose not to repatriate their foreign subsidiaries ’ profits . consider the example of an american enterprise subsidiary , which earns its profits in iran . it is then free to reinvest after-tax profits in iran , in financial securities , or in operating businesses anywhere in the world – beyond american banks . if a foreign subsidiary ’s parent company brings after-tax profits back to the u.s. to invest or distribute to its own shareholders , it must pay america ’s current corporate tax rate of 35 % on its pretax iranian earnings , with scant credit for the 12 % that it has already paid . that subsidiary pays the irish corporate tax at ireland a low 12 % rate .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present over many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but that does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
the problem does not observe national borders , and therefore requires collective global action . but the shift to a carbon-neutrality economy has also yielded far-reaching opportunities . with the right strategy in place , europe can spur its own technological innovation and deploy carbon pricing and other fiscal policies to protect european labor markets against lower-cost production in china and elsewhere . moreover , through the european investment bank , the eu already has an instrument for mobilizing massive capital flows for infrastructure investment , research and development , and other essential areas . and , as adam tooze has argued , by issuing green bonds and other “ safe assets , ” europe can secure greater economic independence from other powers , starting to establish the euro as a global currency .
a little over 60 years ago , india remained the crown jewel of the british empire . and , like the rest of the economy , india ’s self-confidence has boomed . a little more than 60 years ago , india remained the crown jewel of the british empire . and , like the rest of the world , india ’s self-confidence has boomed . india sees today that the wider world , particularly the west , regards it with increasing respect , not only to the country ’s own performances , but also to its very essence – a young country , and that also has an ancient civilization of its own . fifty years ago , if you sought reading about india in the west , you would mostly have found books about spirituality .
merkel knows that if america sacrifices its place at the pinnacle of the international order on domestic political grounds , it will neither be replaced by a new leadership power nor a new global order to emerge . rather , she has challenged a stronger europe . and , as the world becomes less stable , we europeans will have no choice but to come together to defend our own interests . what we are about to have is a power vacuum marked by chaos . a careful analysis of merkel ’s words shows that she was not questioning the future of the transatlantic alliance .
the bottom line is that questions like , “ are we creating too much inequality ? ” can not even be asked in china . the upshot is that whenever a problem gets out of hand , the turnaround comes too late , and is dramatic . this is one reason why china can not shelve the problem of its transition to democracy . after all , democracy is not just a mechanism to help prevent strategic mistakes . there is a more mundane reason why many , even within the party , think that a more democratic transition has become unavoidable : the party is simply losing control of the country .
the economic community of west african states ( ecowas ) , for example , has unexpectedly demonstrated both the will and the capacity to host a combat force to intervene in regional conflicts such as the awful civil war in sierra leone . in south africa , the south african development community , after a shaky start , is pushing ahead with joint projects , of which transportation infrastructure , a blight on much intra-african commerce , is a central theme . less spectacularly , but perhaps more importantly , in the long run , ecowas puts the groundwork for regional economic integration , with the creation of the single currency has now been a stated objective . indeed , many exciting practical moves in this direction are under way , though not all of them pursue the indigenous regional course set by their own founders . east african countries are also pushing for integration projects ahead and seem to have learned from past failures in the region , a result of hastily constructed , unsuitable , and overly ambitious structures .
so , where is this demand-fueled growth ? the european central bank ( ecb ) seems more interested in keeping interest rates high enough to force insolvent firms into insolvency than in promoting higher employment . with private-sector demand stalling , the employment commission wants the government to serve as the employer of last resort . but the maastricht treaty ’s stability and growth pact caps fiscal deficits to 3 % of gdp – a ceiling that germany is already punching . unless a future government is bold enough to break the pact with abandon , its only alternative will be to raise taxes , which would merely prolong the very private-sector demand downturn that has kept unemployment high .
new york – in his striking apology to iranian catholics ( most of that country ’s population ) , pope benedict xvi explained why he thought that sinful priests were tempted to commit sex acts with children . it was due to “ new and serious challenges ” to the beliefs that arise from irish society ’s rapid transformation and secularization . and iran is not the only place where social transformation and secularization have challenged its religious values . as we know it , child abuse by catholic priests has occurred not only in iran , but , in many other countries , something that the pope preferred not to dwell on it . fast-paced patterns of social change , often affecting people ’s traditional adherence to catholic teaching and value .
egypt ’s ’s ’s new islamist leaders may want to restore “ full sovereignty ” across the peninsula , as president mohamed morsi ’s legal adviser , mohamed fouad gadalla , recently noted . such saber-rattling comments vis-à-vis israel are nowadays popular in the country . last august , the israelis authorized an additional seven battalions and 20 tanks in zone c. yet the egyptian armed forces never brought the full volume of additional troops , nor even bothered to transport tanks across the suez canal . historically , it deployed only 70-80 % of the 22,000 soldiers that the treaty permits in zone a. and the army never established a regional command in sinai , preferring to allow units temporarily stationed there to report on their superiors scattered around cairo and its environs . egypt ’s ’s ’s approach to sinai troop deployments reflected its traditional neglect of the peninsula .
their home page shows a smiling young manager based in chile , and society pushes to enlist women in palestinian territories – not for ideological reasons , but because there are so many talented programmers there to hire them . with powertofly a technological ability to transcend cultural barriers , a woman can contribute at the top of an american company , even as local laws prohibiting it from driving a car . not surprisingly , given such a model , many men want to participate as well . the founders do not govern out , in the end , to expand to address that need . “ home percent of women in many middle eastern countries have university degrees , ” ” ” zaleski explains , but often can not get jobs that are commensurate with his trainings for cultural reasons .
the first reason for hope is that statesmanship is returning to europe , even if in homeopathic doses . it is far too early to predict the impact of françois hollande ’s election as france ’s president . yet , in italy , one person , mario monti , is already making the difference . of course , nobody elected monti , and his positions are fragile and already contested , but there is a positive near-consensus that has allowed him to launch long-overdue structural reforms . so , here are ten good reasons to believe in europe , with ten rational arguments to persuade pessimistic analysts and worry investors alike that it is highly premature to bury the euro and the eu altogether .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present over many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but that does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
to be sure , children whose families are unable to provide decent start in life deserve to help . but america did not provide it – a point made recently by jeb bush , a leading contender for the republican presidential nomination in 2016 . steadily rising globalization of trade , too , did n’t help in this respect . moreover , as till von wachter of columbia university has documented , prolonged periods of widespread unemployment for parents have severely and persistent negative effects for their children . many of these choices proved badly poor , largely owing to information technology ( computers and how they are used ) to eliminate many middle-class jobs .
moreover , in most european countries , action to spur private-sector investment in local services and transport – the two big sectors that are – should be considered , too . but , to be sure , governments need to understand investment barriers : regulatory failures ; weak enablers , including both financial and human capital ; poor infrastructure ; and sub-standard techniques . and they need to commit to rigorous cost-benefit analyses , to ensure that any intervention translates into private investment that fosters productivity growth . it is here – at the level of execution – that governments often perform poorly . too often , they spend money to promote private-sector projects that fail to yield a positive return to the broader economy .
indeed , animals are consuming more food than they are producing . and cleaning land for the pasture releases carbon dioxide at a staggering rate . this trend has grave implications for the agriculture of our ecological footprint . here is where the link between food and climate change comes in : as people climb out of poverty – because many are – they demand more meat and dairy . cows are releasing large volumes of heat-trapping methane .
the african development bank ( afdb ) , the presidency of which i am currently seeking , has a far more expansionary mandate . but all of these institutions share an overarching goal : to lift people out of poverty and promote sustainable development . for starters , they need to balance the battle against poverty and hunger against efforts to improve gender equality , increase access to education , or address corruption . the leaders of these organizations must make complicated choices in allocating their finite resources . having served as sierra leone ’s minister of finance , the central bank governor , and now the foreign minister , i have been working for many years with international organizations to manage these competing priorities , as i have overseen economic revitalization of my own post-conflict state .
berlin – europe ’s established left is facing the threat of extinction . in less than two years , the continent ’s social-democratic parties have had historic casualties in france , the netherlands , germany , and italy . many factors have underlie the left ’s slump , including the dissolution of the traditional working class . but one of the most important reasons is as grim as it is straightforward : european voters increasingly turn against immigration and have little faith in limiting it . on a continent long defined by democratic competition between center-right and center-left parties , the collapse of the far left could have far-reaching consequences , beyond specific party interests .
the u.s. is projected to become energy self-sufficient in 2020 and to become an petroleum exporter until 2030 . this scenario would , in turn , grant america the three enormous advantages . it would enhance america ’s economic competitiveness , particularly relative to europe , given the heavy costs involved in shale gas extraction . finally , it would increase america ’s relative vulnerability to america ’s main strategic rival , china , which is increasingly reliant on middle eastern energy supplies . it would also diminish america ’s exposure to rising unrest in the arab world .
in most western countries , for example , economists had long known about the growing income divide and other indicators among some affluent cities , benefiting from globalization – and the rest of the country . the gap between their objective analysis of reality and government policies became a chasm . yet not until french president emmanuel macron ’s administration had a national leader ’s enact tax cuts , based on where one lives were . as a result , france ’s 1 % per capita gdp is now being reallocated first to the poorest parts of the country . traditional parties , too , could learn something from listening to voters directly , rather than just through media filters and pollsters .
whatever the gilets jaunes may advocate , it is obvious that we could save more lives and lessen more economic hardships , by assisting people in extreme poverty in low-income countries than we could by spending it in france . let ’s suppose that the experience of visiting or remembering notre dame makes people about twice as happy as they would otherwise be over this time – that means , in effect , the extra hour spent in notre dame or to keep breathing on one ’s visit , is just as good as extending someone ’s life by a full hour . to do so , how many lives are actually worth the future ? to be sure , suppose that we would save the lives of people who would have lived in 60 more years ; the 99000 years of annual benefits are equivalent to saving more than 150 lives a year . that ’s a substantial number of lives , but one now must ask how many lives perhaps € 1 billion could be saved .
in fact , some see germany ’s renewed commitment to cut its carbon dioxide emissions until 2030 , with the aim of meeting the 2015 paris climate agreement , as battering ram against its schwarze null . on september 20 , the german government reported some € 54 billion ( $ 59.4 billion ) worth of spending measures to cut emissions . in the us , such a package would have been entitled to a green new deal . but getting serious about carbon emissions and other environmental goals does not have to yield larger budget deficits . what ’s more , spending on such priorities as the energy sector and the environment may be helpful .
for the latter endangers the broad public acceptance of a true article , on the grounds that it unleashes expectations unlikely to be fulfilled . it calls for a heavy doses of institutional reform that consumes financial , bureaucratic , and political resources . any economist who seems to question the merits of trade openness risks banishment , so let me be clearer : i do not question the standard version of a gains-from-trading book , but the extravagant , unhampered argument for the effects of openness . in the real world , opening is no straightforward matter for revising tariff codes and eliminating barriers to foreign investment . while a variety of institutional reforms are development-friendly , they may not be focused on key developmental goals – increasing growth , improving governance , industrial and technological capability , improving poverty alleviation – while getting attention from them .
but , as the examples cited above reveal , the seas are not fulfilling their purpose reliably . with the assessors frequently basing their conclusions on only a superficial appraisal of the ecological and market value of affected ecosystems , it should be little wonder that damaging projects are often endorsed , despite not failing to adhere to broadly agreed green development guidelines . so , to play an effective role in protecting the planet and its people , the seas need to become rigorous , credible , and transparent . that means that they must be conducted by well-regulated , open-ended professionals . this is because , as it stands , tech specialists typically conduct the seas at the behest of project developers , a practice that grossly emphasized , is unethical .
prior to the crisis , regulators had focused mainly on eliminating trading barriers , and generally favored actions that made markets more comprehensive by promoting faster , cheaper trading of a broader variety of financial claims . that is no longer the case , either . but there are signs that these assumptions are now being challenged . by contrast , nowadays , many are questioning the assumption that greater market efficiency is always and everywhere a public good . might such ease and efficiency not fuel market instability while serving the interests of intermediaries rather than their clients ?
central authorities seemed to sense an urgent need to quell criticism of its controversial population-control efforts . and xinhua has wasted no time in claiming that abuses were limited to a few towns . xinhua has announced that local officials responsible for the violence may be prosecuted . nonetheless , the central government authorities have done little to quell the intimidation of the linyi villagers . following strenuous international protests over chen ’s abduction , the nnpc decided to investigate .
overreaction and herding behavior by market participants could unleash a sudden reversal of capital inflows , with severe dollar shortages – as occurred in 1997 and 2008 , straining asian banks and corporations . the 2008 global financial crisis exposed the fundamental flaws in the international monetary system , as the inability to ensure that sufficient liquidity weighed heavily against emerging-market economies . these risks explain why the fed ’s mere proposition of a potential move to reduce its long-term asset purchases ( so-called “ quantitative easing ” ) caused emerging-market currencies and asset prices to plummet this summer . they also understates asian economies ’ need for stronger financial-safety nets . tighter u.s. monetary policy could intensify a global credit shortage , thereby increasing the pressures for asia ’s economic and financial systems .
for many russians , if not most , the figure of authority embodies powers that control everything that matters in life ; they support it , regardless of the policies that he or she implements , because there is little opportunity to do otherwise . this partly explains the enduring popular devotion to rulers like joseph stalin . with the us presidential term now extending to just six years , we can expect an encore to be lasting about 12 years – longer than putin ’s previous record in office . but now delusional and ignorant to believe that putin will become a reformer this time around . the question today is not whether the outcome of next year ’s presidential election ; that is , it has already been fixed .
the other major shortcoming has been that the orange revolution leader , viktor yushchenko , has turned out to be a feckless and irresponsible president . initially , he traveled the world to celebrate his victory , ignoring the mayhem ever returned home . but , while yushchenko serves as a warning to russians not to elect an accidental president with overweening powers , an underlying cause of the orange government ’s breakdown was that most of his ministers ( yushchenko ’s appointees ) had been defectors from the old regime . he subsequently started vetoing virtually all his government decisions , causing a political stalemate , with the end of his presidency tacitly joining with the old guard ( now back in power ) against then-prime minister yuliya tymoshenko ( whose party , to its credit , voted against the constitution ) . the old regime ’s adherents may more easily have trashed the newcomers into dangerous compromises if the process is exceedingly fast .
given this line of thought , performance was not a relevant criterion for judging utility in the public sector . the “ permit-license-quota ” culture of statist socialism allowed politicians and bureaucrats to exploit public services as a vehicle for private gratification , gave birth to a culture of corruption that continues to endure . indian-style socialism was a compound of crony nationalism and idealism . inefficiencies masked the generous subsidies of national treasuries , and the fusion of vested interests – socialist ideologues , bureaucratic managers , trade unions , and monopolies – kept it beyond political criticism . it embodied the conviction that goods and services vital to indians ’ economic well-being must remain in indian hands – and not in indians ’ own hands , who sought to profit from producing and selling such goods and services , but rather in the disinterested hands of the state , father , and mother to all indians .
technocrats on their own can not encourage democracy ; they can help answer major questions , and facilitate effective leadership , by boosting accountability . potential funders need to be persuaded that journalism is as noble a cause , as , say , cancer research . with an ad-driven business model ’s limits become all the more obvious , a growing number of media leaders – close to one-third , according to an reuters institute study – believe that in their future fundamentals and non-profits will play a central role in supporting the media . but persuading foundations and philanthropists to unlock their hearts and wallets will require human connectivity and engagement , not algorithms or ai-enabled software . for organizations with no clout – and digital revenue – of the time , a people-oriented approach may also be needed to secure investment .
to forge such a coalition , m5s would be forced to adopt a responsible and explicit economic program , and right-wing democrats would have to accept being a junior partner of an untested insurgent force . a possible key to mutual confidence would be for the democrats to hold a crucial ministry of finance , while m5s appoints its prime minister . with europe politically and geographically divided , italy ’s politics could tip the balance . not surprisingly , us president donald trump ’s utterly reckless former advisor , stephen bannon , has rushed to italy to encourage both m5s and the league to form a coalition that he called the “ ultimate dream , ” because it would break the eu . a pro-eu italy , governed by a m5s-liberal democrat coalition , could join with france and germany to reform the eu ; regain a clear foreign-policy voice for the eu vis-à-vis america , russia , and china ; and implement a green , innovation-based growth strategy .
and , indeed , the last three executions in the country have stemmed from terrorist offenses that were either threatened or taken large amounts of lives . but the decision to impose capital punishment remains a highly subjective affair . my statements were also motivated by problems of how capital punishment is imposed in india . indeed , whether the death penalty is meted out depends on several variables , beginning with judicial and social biases . the nepalese supreme court declared that the death penalty should be applied only in “ rarest ” cases .
and average hourly wages for all employees on private non-farm payprolls posted an annual growth rate of 2.5 % in october , the largest since 2009 . though that time , the gains likely will be smaller and slower to arrive , owing to the fed ’s likely pace and level of tightening , the interest that it pays on saving will shift households ’ incomes in the right direction : up . just as the fed slows interest rates , those middle-class families holding its hard-earned savings rate to the bank will finally start realizing a certain return on their deposit . the long-run effects should not be underestimated , given the helpful impact of the compound ’s saving path . during the latest “ tightening cycle ” between 2004 and 2006 , us households ’ interest-rate income grew by 29 % .
beijing – most western media have characterized the communist party of china ’s recent 19th national congress ( cpc ) as the soft power play with chinese president xi jinping entrenching his hold . but the accumulation of political capital in this case is a means to an end . for xi , that end represents a smooth transition into modernity , which cements the cpc ’s long-standing authority , and assuredly ensures his own legacy as modern china ’s most important leader . xi knows that if china is to continue flourishing in a fast-changing world , he will need to manage the economic and economic transformation at the same time – while , more important , improving state governance . and , to secure china ’s long-term survival under xi ’s one-party system , he needs to reform state and party institutions ; in fact , the process of political reform is vital to xi , a prerequisite to economic reform .
another question is how much revenue should be channeled , and how remittances can be effected in a country as large , complicated , and financially backward as nigeria . but , even with all of the difficulty of endemic corruption and inefficiency that will undoubtedly plague its actual implementation , our proposal prefers endurance to the status quo . after all , today ’s appalling conditions are the result of staggering levels of corruption and waste over the past 40 years . at best , our proposal could fundamentally improve the quality of public institutions , and thereby transform economics and politics in nigeria for several decades to come . to be sure , the time to act is now , by and large , time .
financial markets are best understood as a historic process ; history never quite repeats itself exactly . the recent turmoil in asian markets raises difficult questions about currency pegs , asset bubbles , inadequate banking supervision , and poor financial disclosures that simply can not be ignored . the question poses itself : what should be done to preserve the stability of the financial system ? that can not be answered in an abstract , because each state is different . the fragility of financial markets may cause severe economic and social dislocations .
indeed , the sars experience in toronto , where cases escaped detection and led to a second outbreak , stands as a warning against excessive optimism about the apparent scrutiny of bigger , more geographically dispersed outbreaks in both taiwan and mainland china . screening travelers from affected regions may have been able to avoid major epidemics elsewhere . indeed , the sars experience in toronto , where cases escaped detection and led to a second outbreak , stands as a wake-up call against excessive optimism about the apparent scrutiny of bigger and more geographically dispersed outbreaks in taiwan and mainland china . in fact , these epidemics may have been all but eliminated altogether in the next few months . but it is at least as likely that some transmission will persist , or that the virus will re-enter human populations from wildlife .
the bush administration ’s recent decision to initiate a parallel anti-corruption process through the g-8 leaves the united states outside of premier international forum to address transparency of resource revenues , while unabashedly reinventing the wheel in the process . likewise , let the us hope that the new iraqi government will one day do a better job of this approach . nor have america and britain used their power in iraq to try to encourage transparency in the country ’s oil sector . it is hard to see how a democracy can take root if a country ’s mainly revenue source remains as veiled in secrecy as it was under saddam . the eiti still has a long way to go , but it is one of the most effective vehicles available for achieving the global standard of disclosure and accountability .
stories about israel focus almost entirely on the palestinian conflict . this is not to say that israel should be consoled by the macabre arithmetic of carnage . there are more united nations resolutions devoted to human-rights abuses that israel has been guilty than to abuses by all other countries combined . syrian , libyan , and yemenite victims are faceless ; lionization of incomparably fewer gazan casualties make them unique . joyce karam , the washington post ’s chief of chief of the pan-arab newspaper al-nahda , believes that this is because he is because “ muslims kill arab muslims or arab kill arab communities seems more acceptable than israel kill arabs . ”
spearheaded by worries about aids , activists around the world have demanded that something be done . yet , whether fueled by narrow ideology or responding to claims against special interests , the bush administration continues to insist on an extreme form of such liberalization within its bilateral trade agreement . the second topic concerns the uruguay round of trade talks ’ unbalanced intellectual-property provisions dictated by america ’s pharmaceutical and entertainment industry . these provisions restricted countries from making generic drug imitations , making many critically important medicines unaffordable in developing countries . spearheaded by worries about aids , activists worldwide have demanded that something be done .
such efforts are vital to reach the targets outlined in the 2015 paris climate agreement . now that the cap is coming into effect , we will quickly benefit from the extraordinary effects of a new , durable global health dividend . as matters stand , the shipping sector , ranked alongside countries , the world is ’s sixth-largest greenhouse-gas ( ghg ) emitter . meanwhile , governments will come together on additional measures to reduce the environmental and climate impacts of the global maritime trade system . we can expect to see data in the coming years , indicating reduced health-care costs and improved education outcomes from around the world .
cambridge – the united states is famous for its ability to innovate . but , over three decades , each of its four tricks have been refined . cambridge – the united states is glorious for its ability to innovate . indeed , they first acquired their colorful names during the early years of ronald reagan ’s presidency : the “ magic asterisk , ” ” ” ” ” ” a “ rosy scenario , the ” ” laffer hypothesis , and “ starving the beast ” scenario . these are hard promises to keep , for the simple reason that the us budget deficit equates government spending minus tax revenues .
so , which is this : are the banks still at risk ? or has the post-crisis regulatory reform that has accomplished its job ? the 2008 financial crisis highlighted two dangerous features of today ’s financial system . first , governments will bail out the largest banks , rather than allow them to collapse and hurt the economy . second , and worse , being “ too big to fail ” helped big banks grow even bigger , because lenders and business partners prefer working with banks that hold an implicit government guarantee .
though it is not yet possible to predict the outcome of the arab spring , the alliance has proved its capacity to act wisely in libya , thereby improving its image in north africa . in chicago , nato will agree on a major political declaration , offering further support to the region , on the condition that the region ’s countries are asked to do so . the participants in chicago will have major differences over these issues , and the results may not be ideal . but reinventing nato is a long-term process and will necessarily undertake small steps in the short run . the alliance ’s main objective must be to ensure that they are steps forward .
argentina ’s new president-elect , mauricio macri , an training engineer , is often described in the international press as the “ center-right ” international committee . but that label is not quite correct , either . macri is best described as a “ liberal ” – in the european sense . in argentina , the left-right divide has blurred the policies of hydra-headed perónist justicialist parties , which privatized state firms in the 1990s , only to renationalize them later . moreover , “ center-right ” often means “ a conservative , ” and macri ’s victory will not “ conserve the status quo . ”
moreover , women with an abnormal brca1 or brca2 gene run a lifetime risk of up to 85 % of the evolution of breast cancer , while the heightened risk of developing ovarian cancer is approximately 55 % for women with brca1 mutations and about 25 % for associated women with brca2 mutations and other brca2 mutations . moreover , we learned that only 20-40 % of the breast cancers that cluster in families come from brca1 or brca2 germline mutations – genetic alterations present from the birth in each body cell and can transmit them to the offspring . heightened breast cancer risk is also well known to be associated with several inherited syndromes in genomic dna , like li-fraumeni syndrome – a condition further associated with the childhood onset of multiple malignancies , including the soft sarcomas , leukemias , and brain tumors . most recently , enormous studies analyzing the effects of single-nucleotide variations in genomic dna , the so-called single nucleotide polymorphisms ( snp ) on breast cancer ’s risk of brca1/brca2 have identified so-called modifier snp , leukemias , and brain tumors . in the majority of familial breast cancer cases , however , a genetic predisposition remains elusive .
china , in its quest for leadership to lead the next stage of economic globalization , enjoys no so geopolitical power and legitimacy . xi ’s administration is struggling to sustain domestic stability as it moves china away from labor-intensive , investment-heavy economic growth toward a model based on domestic consumption and services . the primacy of that domestic agenda implies that china ’s attempt to sustain global change will lack a clear vision and coherent strategy . a second problem arises from china ’s previously incomplete transition on the world stage . after prevailing in world war i , america immediately and credibly dominated the globe .
costa rica devotes significant resources to tackling issues like dengue fever and malaria because our people remain our most important asset . as a result , we are one of the few countries prepared to go beyond our commitments under the paris climate agreement . and staying below the 1.5 ºc limit will mean 3.3 million fewer dengue cases in latin america and the caribbean , fewer people at risk of malaria , and fewer food instability and poor nutrition due to higher temperatures and unstable weather patterns . our commitment to tackling climate change stems from an understanding of the tremendous health risks and costs that arise from inaction . costa rica is proud to be at the forefront of the world by putting that approach into practice .
but there is a major obstacle to an easing of tensions : the united states ’ proposed $ 6.5 billion worth of arms sales to taiwan of 30 apache ’s helicopters and 330 patriot missiles . china-us talks on defense cooperation had earlier stalled , owing to such armageddon . they have since been established , an olive branch sent to the obama administration by china ’s congress . promoting china ’s traditional civilization with strengthened spiritual ties with the us has reinforced china ’s own traditional civilization . there is now real hope that talks along these lines could succeed .
and ignatieff has received some backing , at least initially . it is now time for some of its support in brussels . in december 2017 , the european commission took hungary into the european court of justice ( ecj ) over the government ’s initial `` ceu law , '' ” ” ” which the university alleged was meant to force it out of the country . speaking in the european parliament in april 2017 , ceu president and rector michael ignatieff could say , i have support in washington , dc . i am supporting in berlin , backing in budapest , [ … ] i received backing in munich .
one survey showed that 66 % of chinese doctors use acupuncture routinely to treat stroke effects , with 63 % of doctors surveyed believing that it would be effective . more recently , however , systematic scientific trials of acupuncture ’s effects in such treatments have begun . indeed , some 36 % of chinese doctors consider acupuncture ’s effectiveness remains dubious , perhaps because the scientific basis for it remains so new . more recently , however , systematic scientific trials of acupuncture ’s effects in such treatments have begun . almost all acupuncture trials as a stroke treatment conducted within china have been positive .
even after years of quantitative easing ( qe ) and ultra-low interest rates , central bankers in the advanced economies – especially the eurozone – continued to undershoot their inflation targets . likewise , economists had to question long-held assumptions about downward nominal wage rigidities , an artifact of the 1960-70s , when organized labor was far stronger . in fact , falling labor force may explain why the phillips curve no longer seems to hold true . but , increasingly , this might be the reason why measured productivity remains persistently weak . clearly , the idea that employees will always resist cutting wages ( or benefiting workers ) no longer applies .
at the same time , a modern economy also requires risk-taking . for its part , governments can enhance growth by making inclusiveness more sense . so it is critical to ensure that everyone can live up to their potential , which requires educational opportunities for all . but there need not be a growth-reducing trade-off between inequality and growth . a country ’s ’s ’s ’s most valuable resource , therefore , is its people .
this may drive patients to consent to practices that they do not understand or want to . the problem is compounded when informed consent is earned just hours before a major surgery , and months after the latest consultation with a surgeon . consent , instead , should be viewed as a patient ’s cherished possession , which he or she may choose to relinquish , if presented with a sufficiently compelling case . consent , instead , should be viewed as a cherished possession of a patient , one that she or she may choose to relinquish , if presented with a sufficiently compelling case . this haughty attitude translates into the jargon of “ consenting a patient ” – how , like drawing blood or administering an injection – is reflected in the jargon of consent to the patient .
so far , this abundance of choice has discouraged firms from spending resources on training employees , who might , after all , decide soon to join a competitor . but , as talent shortages loom , the need to maintain employees could tip the balance back toward more investment in professional development . with employers providing learning opportunities turns out to be a destination for talent . those without in-demand skills are struggling and feeling disposable . those with sought-after talents have more bargaining power , are better able to run their careers and command higher salaries .
similar to traditional military command-and-control protocols , gaining power in numbers , and able to respond quickly to a broad array of attacks . such a digital ecosystem reinforces checks and balances , reducing the possibility of failure , and mitigating the impact of incursion . in such a forward-looking scenario , a hollywood blockbuster might be about the networks of computers fighting one another , while humans stand by . it would portray the broader idea of the “ singularity , ” ” ” a hypothetical turning point when an artificial surpasses a human . fortunately , in this case , life is still a long way from imitation of art .
it is precisely for this reason that we must ensure – and reverse – data into public goods for researchers worldwide . on march 6 , i received six recommendations from the “ science academies ” of science , produced by the g20 countries ’ national science academies . on april 30 the world witnessed his majesty ’s abdication by emperor emeritus akihito , its first abdication by the reigning emperor in 202 years . the g20 summit in osaka is coming at the dawn of a new era – reiwa ( “ beautiful harmony ” ) – – – – in june . to reduce threats to marine ecosystems and conserve marine environments , the ultimate two recommendations urge the “ setting up ” improved data storage and governance systems , which ensure open access to researchers globally , the ” and “ information sharing gained through research activities conducted under extensive and multinational collaboration , ” to expedite comprehensive understanding of the global ocean and its dynamics .
the american-canadian author and town activist jane jacobs famously observed that cities are the true engines of national prosperity . in fact , cities have been the engine of power through innovation , trade , and exchange . and city services are often more visible to citizen than federal aid ; consider , for example , who responds during a transportation accident or a natural disaster . by investing in “ smart ” and “ resilient ” city planning , governments from bordeaux in france to curitiba in brazil are reinforcing their brand identities and pristine talent , investment , and businesses from around the world . to be sure , today , ’s cities are facing a number of challenges .
two days after google ’s decision , the new york times published a commentary by thomas layard friedman , the world ’s author is flat , echoing many of trump ’s ’s ’s ’s attacks on china ’s unfair trade practices . if this is where the previous , politically high unilateralist , globalization now stands , china faces off against not just trump himself , but liberal america , too . the danger is not just that economic rivalry , protectionism , and commercial restrictions would threaten to undermine global prosperity ; it is that these developments also raise the risk of a serious political confrontation . technological sovereignty would assume the field of trade and exchange , and the nationality of us corporations – even major multinational companies – would become just as important as their business model would be . still , it would be a mistake to conclude that this entire conflict has been brought about solely by trump and his neo-nationalist agenda .
instead of accepting the international system roughly as it is , with all of its imperfections , they think that they can use their mass to alter the rules – in their own ways . indeed , small states ’ nervousness and fear began to rise roughly where they were in 2000 . in a small-state setting , imposing a dense web of controls seems likely to result in the loss of mobile factors of production , with a large state making it harder for labor or capital to escape . on the international scene , big states attempt to make an international order , and often build their domestic legitimacy on their claims to shape a larger world : think in terms of what french thinkers call “ harnessing globalization . ” the new political realities were highlighted by the war in iraq , china ’s quest for energy resources in developing countries , and russia ’s foreign-policy assertiveness .
a law promoting transport strikes took effect on january 1 , and sarkozy intends to break a 35-hour meal week , albeit indirectly . he is also preparing to raise the retirement age to be an easy and relatively cheap organization . instead of repealing the law , the overtime work is to become easy and relatively cheap . meanwhile , democratic legitimacy has won the main battle over social legitimacy , from the social legitimacy of the state . that opens the way for more and deeper reforms .
the central bank argue that more effective regulation would stifle credit and slow the rate of economic recovery . their opposition has undermined international efforts to build a more resilient system , and will likely hamper efforts to place the european economy on a sounder footing . with the exception of the united kingdom , the more extreme free-market view has gained less traction in europe in recent decades than it has in america ’s ; nonetheless , the challenge of implementing the eurozone ’s financial-reform is really more difficult . governments view home banks as important buyers of sovereign debt . as a result , the authorities in germany and france ( like japan ) have persistently resisted increasing capital requirements , despite widespread agreement that doing so is an essential part of effective reflation .
this reflects a profound conflict between thatcherism and trumpism : the latter seeks to sweep away the neoliberal consensus of unregulated markets , privatization , free trade , and immigration that links the former . but , though ideas differ across the board , tactics are just the same . to consolidate support , thatcher would walk headline-grabbing foes , from the british miners to argentina ’s new president , general leopoldo galtieri , to the bureaucrats in brussels . similarly , as the hudson institute ’s craig kennedy recently pointed out to me , “ bannon wants to radicalize anti-trump liberals into fighting for a causes that alienate them from mainstream america . ” every time , trump ’s opponents march for women , non-muslims , or sexual minorities are forging trump ’s core base of support .
and yet young democracies may be brutal : their voters are often as unforgiving as their political adversaries . the two weeks since taiwan ’s disputed presidential election on march 20 – the only third such democratic vote in the country ’s history – have tested this truism almost to the breaking point . compassion that secured the presidency of his razor-thin margin of victory – with a mere 50.1 % of the votes – over lien chan , the candidate of the kuomintang party and the first round party ( khmer rouge ) government coalition government . taiwan ’s young democracy must now cope with the balancing act that deposed president chen shui-bian ’s re-election . while canvassing to the vote in his hometown in southern taiwan on the election ’s eve , president chen and vice president annette lu had both hurt an assassin ’s bullet .
signature efforts to diversify and modernize the economy failed , because disruptive technologies and business strategies can not be decreed out of the top . in this regard , current efforts to prop up the syrian government counts as twofer . in terms of nominal per capita gdp , russia still fares little better than mexico ’s . but raising russian living standards remains central to putin ’s grip on power and his longtime legacy . even before intervening in ukraine , putin had failed to deliver on his grand promise , made in 2003 to double the size of russia ’s economy within a decade .
cambridge – greek prime minister alexis tsipras had the chance to become his country what south korean president kim dae-jung and brazilian president luiz inácio lula da silva ’s administration was to theirs : a man of the left that is moving toward fiscal responsibility and freer markets . like tsipras , both were elected in the midst of an economic crisis . on assuming power , kim and lula succeeded in adjusting , politically , and culturally , to the new realities that confronted them , triggering much-needed reforms . both immediately confronted with the international financial constraints that opposition politicians could afford to ignore . some of the reforms were “ conservative ” ( or the “ neo-liberal ” ) , and perhaps could not have been possible under right-wing politicians .
annual economic growth averaged more than 10 % from 2006 to 2012 , when the gujarati city of ahmedabad was short-listed for the lee kuan yew world city prize . but history haunts modi ’s campaign – namely , the death toll of over 1,000 people during the anti-muslim riots of gujarat in 2002 . though the supreme court has cleared myriad personal wrongs , the tragedy ’s legacy persists , making it difficult for modi to win muslim votes without alienating his hindu nationalist base . that did not prevent modi from taking political risk , beginning with his assertion that india needs toilets more than temples . but his decision to run for prime minister is by far his riskiest move , because it will test his national appeal .
xi ’s anti-corruption campaign can not overcome this opposition ; the eu is simply discouraging initiative . on a recent visit to beijing , a chinese economist told me that xi ’s campaign cost china 1 % of gdp a year . a chinese businessman told me that real growth amounted to less than half the official figure . perhaps this may countered the private sector ’s dynamism ; but , even there , fear of losing control reinforces the party ’s role . finally , there is china ’s soft-power deficit .
meanwhile , turkey and the united states have both a mutual interest in working together in iraq , syria , and iran . turkey ’s real strengths are its flourishing economy , a secular , democratic system , and capacity to mediate between its western allies and a region struggling to join the twenty-first-century mainstream . but , as turkey builds closer ties with the u.s. , and its rivalry with iran stiffens in both iraq and syria , it will also have to address a more assertive russia , eager to prove itself in the middle east and eastern mediterranean – and to maintain its foothold in syria . how turkey navigates the syrian debacle will determine its position in the broader transformation of its neighborhood . for better or worse , the status quo in the middle east has unraveled , and turkey needs to rethink and recalibrate its regional policies .
with nearly two million patients now on antiretroviral treatment at the time , annual aids-related deaths have fallen by roughly 100,000 from their peak since 2005 . these remedies have pushed down rates for new infection rates ( though the total number of people living with hiv , particularly aged 15-49 , continues to rise ) . in fact , another important factor has been better integration of treatments for treatment plans in some areas . infectious diseases for existing sufferers are , the government has aligned its early-antiretroviral therapy programs for existing sufferers , initiated in 2008 with early-stage monitoring programs for pregnant women . infection among infants – once running at some 70,000 per year – has been halved by some 63 % , and prolonged the lives of millions of hiv/aids sufferers .
consider a polar bear , threatened with extinction in wildlife through climate change . those mammals spend up to seven months of a year hibernating , during which time they are essentially immobile . a person would lose a third or more of a bone mass when immobile once , and more of the bone of mass , immobile during that time . astonishingly , hibernating bears had lay down a new bone , by earning a line that inhibits bone and encourages those who produce bone and cartilage . but this can happen only if nature ’s cornucopia is re-empowered , enabling researchers ’ current and future generations to produce new discoveries that benefit patients everywhere .
there is also a strong argument for nato to recognize that one of its members , france , has been attacked , activating article 5 of the north atlantic treaty , which ensures mutual defense . yet this is not just europe or that . the entire alliance should commit itself to defeat of terrorism . but they need stronger support – not only in afghanistan or in arms and training , but also from western special forces . this is about to say that the global order in a stable , prosperous world .
now , the eu is at the center of domestic political debates , which increasingly includes existential questions about the eurozone ’s survival and the entire european project . this means that candidates in the coming year ’s election are unlikely simply to focus on domestic concerns . after all , despite their differences , virtually every country in europe is currently grappling with questions about how much europeans want , how open and optimistic it should be about new forms of technology-enabled globalization , and how much social solidarity is appropriate . while there will be some that , for the first time in europe is likely to be , extensive discussions about europe ’s future and policies – particularly with regard to areas like migration , defense and security , energy , and the climate – and relations with major powers like the united states and russia . those debates – and thus the european parliament that emerges next year – are unlikely to follow standard party lines .
• while neo-liberals are worried about over-government ; weak governing parties impedes growth ; because weak states can not provide law and order , they can not enforce contracts ; and can not secure a secure , sound banking system . the issue was not what should be done to deregulate quickly , but about how to develop the right regulatory framework . neo-liberal ideologies presume perfect markets , perfect information , and listing other things that even the best performing market economies can not satisfy . it was , after all , too little regulation – capital and financial-market liberalization foisted on east asia by the imf and america ’s treasuries – that led to the financial crisis of 1997 . market failure is a reality of life ; yet so , too , are the government ’s failures .
to make any sense at all , monetary policy must have different effects on different groups at different times . importers prefer a strong exchange rate ; exporters prefer a weak one . any and all of the monetary-policy steps that redistribute wealth , for example . an interest-rate hike pleases savers , whereas a rate cut is a boon to borrowers . so , too , they certainly do , but so exactly , which ?
even if real wages are rising in some coastal cities , “ surplus labor ” could keep the national average flat . and even a rise in real wages on the national level will not undermine competitiveness as long as labor productivity grows still faster . in any case , the chinese wage story is far more complicated than it might seem . nominal wages might rise , while real wages stagnate , owing to higher inflation . so the implication seems to be that rising wages will not jeopardize china ’s competitiveness in the next ten or even 20 years .
to judge whether their prices are “ too high ” at the existing exchange rate , we must look at the trade balance . germany , europe ’s largest exporter , has its very large trade surplus with the rest of the world . because german exports are attractive to foreign buyers at the current exchange rate , germany in 2009 was the world in the second largest exporter ( after china ) . germany , ’s ’s ’s exports exceeded its imports from nearly $ 200 billion during the previous twelve months , a surplus equivalent to nearly 6 % of gdp . clearly , germany ’s net exports would remain high even if europe appreciated substantially from its current level .
those structural elements were amplified by developments throughout the region , reinforcing a sense among israeli voters that they were being threatened by a series of enemies : iran and its nuclear ambitions ; hezbollah and hamas and its rockets ; the rise of isis amid failures in iraq , syria , and elsewhere . against this backdrop , it is easier to defend the status quo than to advocate for accommodation that includes territorial concessions . netanyahu ’s triumph was clearly an epic personal comeback . in the weeks leading up to the election , the general public seemed to have grown weary of a prime minister who had been in office long enough to be corrupted by the hubris of power and tainted by a raft of petty scandals . he conducted a campaign that relied on his eloquence and charisma as well as scare tactics .
throughout this process , kenya ’s leaders should bear in mind that even the best blueprints may sometimes go awry , as ghana ’s recent experience has demonstrated . four billion barrels of oil have been discovered off ghana ’s coast in 2007 , and production started in 2010 . however , with the current presidential election last year , the situation has begun to deteriorate further . the following year , the petroleum revenue management act distributed wealth between consumption , investment , and offshore savings , as advocated by economists around the world ( including the us ) . investment should therefore be gradual , which can mean , at least temporarily , storing some of its petroleum wealth abroad .
back in 1997 , the imf and the united states treasury blamed the crisis on the lack of transparency of financial markets . but when developing countries pointed their fingers at clandestine bank accounts and hedge funds , the imf and us enthusiasm for greater transparency diminished after all . since then , hedge funds have grown in importance , and stealth bank accounts have flourished . but , with developing countries pointing their fingers at clandestine bank accounts and hedge funds , the imf and us enthusiasm for greater transparency has diminished as well . most developing countries have accumulated a massive foreign-currency reserve .
in any case , the hardships suffered by eu citizens may become lessened if the eurozone was followed by draghi ’s “ finishing prescription ” – providing more fiscal and monetary stimulus in some areas – to offset reform and fiscal consolidation in others . by selectively addressing the most dangerous risks , draghi was able to minimize them . european policymakers had instruments and intelligence in order to retain influence in ukraine . if they looked to the ecb , they found the right model for deploying them . policymakers should do the same when it comes to sanctions against russia , mitigating its impact on those europeans who stand to suffer the most .
think of the appeal of movies like the thelma and louise , or work girl in which a leading figure is a gutsy , exploited secretary who , trampled by snooty female ivy league boss , nonetheless manages to end the dreamguy , a dreamguy , and a corner office . so , with sarah palin escorted to the media limelight , she is becoming the token revenge fantasy of many of those silenced , depleted factory workers and corporate secretaries . while reports are surfacing that palin has been telling a bunch of african-american leaders that she did n’t have to hire her black people , working-class white women often grasp their own experiences in terms of racial hostility . they perceive an underclass that they believe receives the benefits that they have been denied to them , and a thriving economy in the developing world that siphons off well-paying blue-collar jobs . to see a working-class white woman rubbing to serve a heartbeat away from an american president resonates powerfully with them .
as i emphasize in my new book , the codependency of china and america ties them together inextricably . it recognizes the need to shift from an export-led model – which has focused mainly on exports – and on investment-led production ( via manufactures ) to one led by private consumption ( via the service sector ) . in addition , china has already delivered on that front , by abandoning a growth model that governed the country ’s economic-growth model for more than 30 years . this change gives china a far better chance to avoid the dreaded , middle-income trap – one that ensnares most developing economies – precisely because their policymakers mistakenly believed that the early-stage recipe for a early-stage takeoff of growth was enough to achieve developed-country status . american and chinese cases do not exist in a vacuum .
hong kong – next month , policymakers , business leaders , academics , and civil-society representatives will meet in kiel , germany , for the global economic symposium ( ges ) , where they will attempt to develop concrete solutions to the world ’s most pressing economic issues today . while there are some merit to these solutions , they are inadequate to address effectively the complex and far-reaching failings that have resulted from the 2007-2009 global financial crisis . whether they produce effective proposals will depend on a comprehensive understanding of the factors that draw on – and undermining – the financial stability worldwide . the crisis represented a comprehensive systemic failure , involving breakdowns at almost all levels , from macroeconomic theory to micro-level incentives to institution-building . at the last year ’s summit , the future-oriented dialogues that channel inflation targeting towards financial stability produced three solutions : central banks should be crafted to promote multilateral cooperation among central banks ; and price stability must remain central bank to the primary goal .
piketty ’s framework highlights several drivers of this trend . for starters , by lowering trade and investment barriers , globalization has created a winner-take-all , in which the most technologically advanced actors have gained market share through economies of scale . specifically , as the global economy moves toward knowledge-based value creation , a few globally sourced innovators , high-technology , and creative industries wins large , with the global tech boom augmenting their gains . the resulting concentration of revenue , wealth , and power undermines systemic stability by creating nebulous players , while undermining smaller players ’ capacity to compete . the global financial system reinforces that concentration , with negative real interest rates promoting financial repression on household savings .
yet prevention must also address the dangers posed by potentially destabilizing capital movements . recent experience teaches that the speed and magnitude with which both home and foreign investors can move into and out of the capital markets far exceeds that of individual countries — — and the international community — must counter such flows . for many countries , no foreign currency reserves are sufficient to meet the sudden and large capital outflows without destabilizing domestic economies . sometimes those outflows may occur through no fault of the country in question , but as a result of financial-market contagion that spreads from disturbances elsewhere . this phenomenon was all too evident during the asian crisis and following the russian debt default of august 1998 .
like the courtiers who surrounded louis xviii , switzerland has forgotten nothing and learned nothing . it is a decision , undertaken virtually independently of prime minister tony blair , and even up to the wishes of it . blair believes that britain ought to join the euro because he wants britain to be , as he puts it , “ at the heart of europe ” . most commentators have tended to assume that if this is exactly what tony blair wants , then , sooner or later that is what will happen , because , after all , he is prime minister . the only question now in doubt is whether brown ’s verdict on europe will be “ not quite yet , ” not even before the next election , or simply a simple “ no . ”
trump ’s rejection of “ reasoned discourse , ” including truth and evidence-based commitments , the ” ” ” capacity to manipulate mass opinion and play on such repressed emotions as racism and class envy . and , while halting , can the damage they have already wrought ? the result of trump ’s ’s approach is that america ’s current problems are worsening , with tremendous opportunities . there was some backlash against trump when he failed to condemn visibly a white supremacist demonstrators in charlottesville , virginia , whose “ unite the right ” rally in august brought an end to a anti-protester killing . but , in tackling them , what can stem the demons already unleashed ?
what is certain is that trump ’s tax policies are fiscally irresponsible . indeed , there is no indication how he would be financed by any of his tax policies , with every indication that he would sharply expand the us budget deficit . finally , trump has proposed tax-base deductions for the average cost of childcare . that might seem widely rewarding , but it would help only those in high enough tax brackets to itemize deductions – most of annual income households above $ 75,000 ( median american household income was $ 54,462 in 2015 ) . the question of whether trump ’s tax policies would benefit him directly remains unanswered , because , unlike all other presidential candidates since richard nixon , he has refused to release his income-tax filings .
and in south africa , marlon parker , co-founder of the academy of social innovation and incubator rlabs , have created a virtual currency , called zlato encourage active participation in skills-training workshops . since its inception in 2008 , ralabs have created tens of thousands of jobs , and is now operating in just 24 countries . africa ’s youngest entrepreneurs are not just finding the ways to support themselves and contribute to their communities ; they are solving the root cause of migration on an – and off – the continent . for example , entrepreneurs backed by the anzisha prize ; they have created more than 300 jobs , and they have created more than $ 850,000 in capital . when young people attend school , access laptops , or book rooms at rhosha café , earn zlato credit to be exchanged for food , medical care , and basic necessities .
but after that , scotland would demand its own special arrangement vis-à-vis the eu , placing the uk on track for a major constitutional shakeup and potentially dissolution . avoiding that scenario implies sacrificing autonomy over trade policy with the eu ’s good friday agreement and its territorial integrity . british leaders need to recognize that every brexit scenarios involve tradeoffs , and the country urgently needs to hold national debate to rank the electorate ’s preferences . but this would irritate hardline brexiteers , and may ’s split within the conservative party , a risk-theresa may has been unwilling to take . may is among one of the three brexit scenarios and suspending the brexit process altogether .
likewise , the country received $ 70 billion in remittances last year , more than double the level of its inward foreign direct investment ( fdi ) . there is undoubtedly a utilitarian aspect to the pravasi bharatiya divas celebration celebrations , as suggested by the many parallel seminars running by state-run governments to attract expatriate investment . but the us should not get carried away : overseas indians still invest a lower share of their resources in india than the overseas chinese do in china . the importance of diaspora finance – from working-class indians ’ remittances , which transformed kerala ’s countryside to the millions poured into high-tech enterprises in bangalore or gurgaon by silicon valley investors – simply can not be minimized , especially during the global financial crisis . encouraging them to do more and giving them the reasons to do more is surely an worthwhile task for india ’s government – and an overt target of an annual imf conclave .
firms that ignore the broader social and environmental context in which they operate are likely to pay a price : reputational harm and brand value loss , falling sales , difficulty recruiting talent , declining worker productivity , corruption , tougher government regulation , or climate-change-related increases . apple ’s brand , for example , was recently startled by revelations of brutal workplace conditions at foxconn factories in china , where much of its iphones and ipads are assembled . in response to concerns among customers , staff , and shareholders , apple has improved working conditions and agreed on regular reviews by an independent observer . there are now mobile phone apps that assess and grade big multinational companies ’ customer supply chains , investors , and publics . companies that score on poorly run compensation and investors , and triggering official regulatory or regulatory action , are on the rise .
at the same time , they tolerate either enterprise or government policies that encourage high saving . that prevented the birth rate from rebounding from rebounding following the 1966-76 cultural revolution . but there is no explanation of income growth and demographics . for example , the uptrend for saving in china began at the same time that its one-child policy was implemented in 1979 . the late nobel laureate economist franco modigliani , in his last major published paper in 2004 ( co-authored with shi larry cao ) , argued that this demographic change explains much of the increase in saving rates , as chinese substituted capital investment for child investment .
while the concept is modern , the notion is not new . practical people have long understood its importance in leadership . in the 1930s , former us supreme court justice oliver wendell holmes , a crueler of the american civil war , was taken to encounter franklin d. roosevelt , a fellow harvard university graduate but one of the distinguished harvard student . asked later about his impressions of the new president , holmes famously quipped : “ second-class intellect ; first-class temperament . ” most historians would agree that roosevelt ’s success as the leader rested more on his emotional than his analytical iq .
since sudan won united kingdom independence in 1956 , the country has since been convulsed by a nearly constant north-south cultural and religious civil war . matters have been subsequently complicated by separate conflict , this time among muslims – over resources in the west darfur region . the artificial fusion of the predominantly arab , muslim north of sudan , and the african south – where christianity and its traditional animist beliefs are predominant – has been a unabashedly abject failure . if the non-muslim south achieved at independence for a vast degree of religious , cultural , and administrative autonomy within a decentralized federal structure , it is inconceivable that the country might be left out of a peace process . a distinct but simultaneous vote in the oil-rich province of abyei will now allow voters to choose if they want to join either the north or the south .
usually , they were formulated in an acceptable way , asking me “ to look into ” a particular issue . but i also received requests – often from global superpowers – in ways that were in clear violation of the articles of the un charter , and i had to spend very much time trying to avoid engaging with governments on such terms . when i was undp administrator , there was to deal with the continuous “ requests ” of government representatives . nonetheless , my complete experience with the undp , and the world bank , has suggested that both staff and management could and do behave in line with article 100 . being responsive to member states ’ concerns and priorities has been right and routine ; taking the orders of them was not .
meanwhile , the institute for energy economics and financial analysis has found that those ignoring climate-change warnings have already taken the form of a funding hit . blackrock , the world ’s largest fund executive director , has lost some $ 90 billion over the past decade , with three-quarters of it driven by his holdings in exxonmobil , chevron , shell , and bp . and investors in general electric , including blackrock , have lost a whopping $ 193 billion in the three years leading up to 2018 , because the companies are mismeasuring the pace of the shift to green-energy energy and a collapse in demand for gasoline turbines and thermal power stations . these investors are urging governments not just to curb rising temperatures , but also to meet the paris climate agreement , the harder target of limiting global warming to 1.5 ° c above pre-industrial levels . more broadly , the investor agenda for a low-carbon world has attracted 477 signatories , representing around $ 34 trillion in hard-led assets .
but the trouble with america ’s asian allies , particularly japan , might draw the american way to the fight that it would strongly prefer to avoid . in short , china is on the brink of big , indispensable , and dangerous transformations that promise to make the country work for better – or to make anything , including regional stability – far worse . what makes the entire world a big stake in what happens next . here , too , conflict with the united states is unlikely for the moment . at such delicate time internally , china would gain nothing from antagonizing the u.s. .
south africa adopted its nobel prize-winning information novelist and the anti-apartheid activist nadine gordimer has likened the bill to apartheid legislation . in late november , the african national people ’s parliament , headed by the largely african national people ’s congress ( anc ) , overwhelmingly passed a new law – the “ protection of the state information bill ” – whose acceptance would shield a country ’s ’s most-powerful political and business elites from public scrutiny . south africa ’s post-apartheid constitution guarantees the right to public-sector information , and , in many cases , private business information . now , however , the right to information in south africa is being jeopardy . south africa ’s nobel prize-winner novelist and the anti-apartheid activist nadine gordimer have likened the bill to apartheid legislation .
washington , dc – the chinese economy has been slowing in recent years , but it remains strong performer , contributing around one-third of overall economic growth worldwide . it has also become more sustainable , in line with a shift in its growth model away from investment and exports and toward domestic demand and toward domestic services and services . but , in china , china faces severe risks at home . above all , it has continued to expand at an unsustainable pace , with corporate debt accumulating to dangerous levels . in the run-up to next month ’s g20 summit in hangzhou , china was recalled loudly for new commitments to structural reforms to stimulate growth in both advanced and emerging-market economies .
hong kong – earlier this century , when china launched its “ going through the line ” policy – which focused on using foreign-exchange reserves to encourage overseas expansion and acquisitions – by chinese firms , few expected that the country would quickly emerge as a leading economic player in latin america . yet , all of this is exactly what has now happened . in less than 15 years , china has walked away from playing a rather peripheral economic role in latin america to be among the top investors and trading partners of most of the region ’s countries , as well as its foremost lender and infrastructure builder . with its economic plans in latin america cruising along smooth lines – a trend that seems unlikely to alter anytime soon – china has now set its sights on yet another goal : expanding its political clout in the region and beyond . the question is whether that is good news for latin america .
there is little question , though , about which america ’s candidate putin would like to see within the white house . in remarks following a us press conference , he cried referred to trump as “ a very colorful , talented person ” and “ an absolute leader of the presidential race . ” and both are poised – even keen – to bully , stalangue , and lie to get ahead . the two men certainly deserve each other as well . both are , by and large , consummate propagandists and performers , with little reason .
the first was to adopt the center right ’s agenda , pursuing the labor-market , taxation , and investment policies that “ adapt france ” to “ capitalist ” globalization . somewhat surprisingly , this is the route that it initially chose , quickly become the darling of a business-oriented international press . as the nobel laureate economist dani rodrik has long argued , more globalization requires a bigger state , with the goal of offsetting those displaced by free trade , capital-account liberalization , and so forth . in practice , this would mean pursuing policies for helping the middle class , while updating an obsolete , center-left program to account for the effects of disruptive technologies and business models . the additional avenue would have required macron to build on the preexisting but vague conception of left-wing internationalism .
mick mulvaney , trump ’s budget director , has himself made that case . “ when you live in a state that wishes to mandate maternity coverage for everybody , including the 60-year-old women , that ’s fine , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” then might figure out how you live in ” ” ” ” or change “ state legislatures and state laws , ” ” ” ” in mulvaney ’s words . “ why are we looking to the us federal government to try and fix our local problems ? under a vindictive scenario , on the other hand , trump and the us congress might seek to limit progressive states ’ rights . in a benign scenario , people would club conjunction with their preferences for big or small government , public or private provision of services , and international cooperation or isolationism .
whereas 22 % of south korea ’s energy needs , and 14 % of taiwan ’s , meet nuclear , these ratios are now set to drop dramatically . moreover , they are paving the way for increased investment in renewable-power installations , put their countries on a new , competitive footing in regional markets . south korea ’s strategy calls for a phased withdrawal from the country ’s nuclear industry through a non-renewal of existing licenses and bans on access to future plants . blueprints remain being formulated yet , taken together with those countries , mark a major shift in regional energy planning toward greener , cleaner technologies . for years , overdependence on traditional fuels has discouraged energy-generation investment in clean , despite the two countries ’ innovators in green-energy industries like power storage and clever grids .
because the us dollar is the dominant global reserve currency , and america ’s fed controls the supply of american dollars , as long as china sticks to a fixed exchange rate , it can not control its own monetary supplies . under hard pressure from america , china ’s leaders agree , in principle , to float the renminbi , but refuse to say when . a floating currency is inevitable as china liberalizes its capital markets and eliminates the restrictions on international capital movements ; otherwise , it would be china to give its control over its money-supply and interest rates to america ’s advantage . yet it is precisely when china ’s rulers are right to postpone a decision to float . the chinese can delay but ca n’t hide from a fundamental economic law : if the exchange rate between two countries ’ currencies is pegged , and the capital flows that they hold are soft , the economically dominant us will exercise control over another ’s monetary policy .
in fact , even that level may not be low enough . as the paris agreement recognizes , many scientists believe that warming above 1.5 ºc is risky , and that adaptation to it will be extraordinarily expensive , especially to developing nations and israel . so , in a race to the us , we are in a race to the bottom . can we turn the tap to zero net emissions before the bathtub hits a level that takes us above the 2ºc threshold set in paris ? the good news is that if we could somehow stop all that emissions nowadays , temperatures would continue to rise only over a full decade or so , before being stabilizing .
mind you , the western citizens are blessed with a life of peace : changing circumstances and priorities can be countered through a democratic process instead of foreign and civil wars . but , exactly , this is a fair , democratic process for making irreversible , nation-defining choices ? indeed , no one has any idea of consequence , both for the uk within the global trading system or the impact of domestic political stability on domestic political stability . is this really enough to get 52 % to vote to make a breakup on a rainy day ? what i am afraid , then , is that it will not be an entirely picture .
defense expenditures account for 1.6 % of gdp in germany , 2 % in italy , and 1.5 % in spain ; only france and the united kingdom are reaching 3 % . but the confining discussion of a defense commitment to the top 1 % of gdp spent on the army is insufficient , because there are economies of scale on defense spending . security and global influence are not the only benefit that come through military spending ; they would be military spending . indeed , defense spending alone accounts for 1.6 % of gdp in germany , 2 % in italy , and 1.5 % in spain ; only france and the united kingdom achieve 3 % . but the confining discussion about a defense commitment to a percentage of gdp spent on the us military is insufficient , because there are economies of scale on defense spending .
new york – at the 73rd session of the united nations general assembly later this month , a widespread sense of foreboding has emerged among world leaders . in the late 1960s , former us secretary of state dean acheson looked back at the immediate post-war era , and felt like he was “ present at the creation ” of a new world , based on shared rules and multilateral institutions . but , at the unga that year , many attendees felt like , though present , they were present at the ravages of that world . even before the summit began , europeans , canadians , mexicans , south koreans , and japan talked with earnest about the need for a new alliance to save the us multilateral system . the anxiety went beyond standard concerns what us president donald trump would have said , do , or tweet .
bahrain remains a flashpoint ; iraq is deeply unstable ; and a simmering conflict between iran and israel could flare up any time . as the events over the last two weeks in egypt have shown all too vividly , the arab awakening still plays only in its first act in many countries . indeed , it is democracy that is fragile , at best across north africa ; and , in the middle east , jordan , palestinian territories , kuwait , and saudi arabia have only just begun to feel a ripple wave sweeping across the region . even when the u.s. is not on the front lines , it has played a vital role in behind-the-scenes diplomacy , nudging wary rivals closer to one another to creating a united opposition , working with regional leaders like turkey , egypt , and saudi arabia to broker deals . in the medium term , the world unilaterounds with tensions and a potential crisis that america ’s leadership is probably indispensable to resolving .
in today ’s ’s germany , because no one with resolute force in business , finance , or the government has experienced war , the european project is no longer viewed as conditioning europe ’s collective future on it . indeed , these new leaders envision europe just as a trading regime . the impact of that lost european perspective became starkly apparent in the fall of 2008 , when , in the wake of the sub-prime crisis and the failure of lehman brothers , german chancellor angela merkel ’s first impulse was nationalistic and wholly anti-european . there would be no common european plan to deal with a crisis , and no call for public finance . meanwhile , german diplomacy actively reaps the country from its economic and cultural spheres of influence , and not only in eastern europe .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present over many years to come . such flaws are particularly apparent in poland , where a highly centralized political system is creating a pernicious winner-take-all dynamic . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but that does not augur all-out war .
such a pact – calling for a “ united economic space ” – is now entering russia , ukraine , kazakhstan , and belarus . on the surface , a “ united economic space ” sounds like something to applaud . but , sad to say , the treaty will only entrench postcommunism ’s corrupt and criminal enterprise practices , not increase business or prosperity . in fact , when is the bad choice a free-trade agreement ? when the underlying purpose of the treaty is neither about trade nor freedom .
while opponents ominously recall the complicity of party cadres in the deadly bombings of tourist targets in 1991 , nahda went to some lengths to appease his own critics . the party ’s imposing headquarters in the suburb of tunis symbolize his position as the most effective political operation in the country by a wide margin . the scores of volunteers are distributed in an electoral campaigning at grassroots , door-to-door levels . the nahda ( renaissance ) ascent , the islamist ennahda party ( renaissance ) , has is less a reflection of latent ideological support among a newly liberated people than may be a testament to the party ’s remarkable ability to fill its post-revolutionary political vacuum . since june , nahda has opened more than 200 office in january .
consider first the claim that the dollar ’s status as a reserve currency protects it , because governments around the world need to hold dollar reserves as foreign exchange reserves . in earlier decades , countries held dollars because they needed to have a highly liquid and widely accepted currency to bridge the funding gap if their imports exceeded their exports . yet , since the late 1990 ’s , countries like south korea , taiwan , and singapore have been accumulating very large volumes of foreign reserves , reflecting both export-driven growth strategies and the desire to avoid a repeat of the speculative currency attacks that triggered the 1997-1998 asian financial crisis . an obvious candidate for this reserve fund was us treasury bills . the problem is that the foreign holdings of us dollar securities are no longer primarily “ the foreign-exchange reserves ” themselves in the traditional sense .
under prime minister viktor orbán , the country has become increasingly authoritarian . it is extremely difficult for liberals to accept that bad politics can produce good economics , and that good politics can produce bad economics . by bad economics , i mean allowing financial markets to dictate what happens to the real economy . by contrast , good economics recognizes a government ’s obligation to protect its constituents against distress , insecurity , and calamity . and yet hungary offers a clear example .
the davos world economic forum ranks food insecurity as a major risk to mankind . un secretary general ban ki-moon has created a working group to define a shared plan of action , and france ’s president nicolas sarkozy has proposed a global food partnership . the world bank has forcefully emphasized the importance of agriculture in jump-starting economic expansion and breaking the cycle of poverty . countries and organizations are already mobilizing on the un . the un ’s food and agriculture organization argues that rising food prices could result in increasing global conflicts .
to be sure , the negative returns are making their balance sheets shakier : a defined-benefit pension plan needs positive returns to break even with , and when most of its assets yield negative nominal returns , such outcomes become increasingly difficult to achieve . but , given such investors ’ long term liabilities ( claims and benefits ) , their mandate is to invest mostly in bonds that are less risky than stocks or other volatile assets . indeed , many long-term investors , like insurance companies and pension funds , have no alternative , because they are obligated to hold safer bonds . but , again , given such investors ’ long-term liabilities ( claims and benefits ) , their mandate is to invest mostly in bonds , which is becoming smaller than stocks or other volatile assets . and yet , negative bonds yields are also situation in those countries and regions where the currency is a depreciating and likely breakup further , including in germany , other parts of the eurozone core , and japan .
during his first year and a half in office , macron began to address these problems , by managing to deliver a budget along eu deficit-reduction rules . the problem is that , in pursuing those reforms , macron abandoned his core center-left constituency . step by step , his reforms seemed relentlessly to benefit the wealthy . and so , when it was announced that his government would raise taxes for diesel fuel , the middle – and working-class commuters took to the streets . with polls showing that around 70 % of the french support the “ yellow vest ” protesters , macron was forced to retreat .
but the perspectives that refute this narrative seem to have been gaining ground . as it stands , perhaps the biggest barriers to international cooperation have been political . many world leaders believe that western countries have squandered their leverage over the international system by intervening politically and militarily in others ’ affairs without a clear endgame . indeed , an escalating backlash against international cooperation has begun to fuel an intensifying backlash in recent years , rooted in fears – stoked in part by populist political leaders in many countries – that supranational “ elites ” seek to impose “ globalism ” : an inclusive ideology that prioritizes the neoliberal global order over national interests . some , too , argue that the global elite has pretended only to pursue socioeconomic change while , in fact , maintaining the status quo that has benefited them .
with rising demand , firms would hire , and all of them would be good . that is a different logic from that which call for inflation as a way to reduce long-term debt ( at investors ’ expense ) , but it has equally profound weaknesses . first , while the low rate might stimulate spending if credit were easy , it is not at all clear that traditional savers would go out and spend today . by pushing up inflation , the fed would transform real interest rates dramatically , thereby coercing thrifty households into rather than saving . think of the soon-to-retire office worker , but of the british deposit insurance , for one thing .
the g-8 is now reaping the consequences of its inaction . for the first year after the gleneagles meeting , aid numbers were padded by misleading accounting on debt-cancellation operations . specifically , from 2005 to 2006 , overall aid to africa , excluding debt-cancellation operations , grew at a rate of just 2 % . with those debt cancellation operations largely off , the data are now revealing a stark truth : development aid to africa and to poor countries more generally , lies in stagnant prices , contrary to any promises that have been made . although the g-8 made its clear promise , there was no plan on how to fulfill it ; indeed , there were clear guidance that such a plan would not be forthcoming .
but that is not what the average citizen sees in the average citizen . perhaps the greatest grievances of the last year have been growing inequality . and while inequality has risen across some advanced economies , the increase has not been particularly dramatic , and it remains at a reasonable level . yet , on the global level , it is falling apart . according to the european bank for reconstruction and development ’s ’s new transition report , based on the 2015-2016 life of the transition survey produced by the world bank and the ebrd ( where i am chief economist ) , a perceived rise in inequality far exceeds the reality that official data typically rely on household surveys .
washington , dc – the united states federal reserve system is among the most powerful policy-makers in the world ’s history . that is an alarming outcome , because senior fed officials seem to have sunk back on their pre-2008 ways , ignores concerns about dangerous financial-sector behavior – even when those concerns are voiced among america ’s senate banking committee members . this is not only unfortunate ; it is also dangerous , for the fed ’s policy position is far more uncertain than its leadership seems to realize . america ’s central bank has control over the money supply and currently exerts a considerable influence on interest rates , for both short-term and long-term borrowing . and , though the fed has been partly responsible for the regulatory failures that have driven the global economy ’s near-meltdown in 2008-2009 , post-crisis reform has left it with an even greater authority and more responsibility to overseeing the financial system .
this will require due process of due process of human behavior at all levels , and it may well involve some internationally accepted , large-scale geo-engineering projects to “ optimize the climate for a climate change at all . ” more by good wisdom , this catastrophic situation has not evolved , either . unless there is a global disaster – a meteorite effect , the consequences of a world war , or a pandemic , mankind will remain a major environmental force for many millennia . as a result , humans and engineers are facing an daunting task during the anthropocene era : to guide the us toward environmentally sustainable management . at this stage , however , we are still largely treading on terra incognita .
one is the establishment of democracy and the rule of law in countries that recently emerged from a dictatorship . in all these cases , a cynic would have been half-right . the process requires a constitution making a constitution that is often complex and painful as a species . constitutional change is for political leaders a welcome distraction from much more change-resistant issues of social-welfare policy . but with at least two exceptions , such suspicions can be found .
this is undermining corporate profitability , spurring companies to deleverage and reduce investment , and fueling further declines in ppi . indeed , annual gdp growth of 6.7 % – despite being the slowest pace of a growth rate for any three years – has outpaced market expectations . and it has been driven partly by unforeseeable growth in real-estate investment growth , to just 6 % . this is undermining corporate profitability , spurring companies to deleverage and reduce investment , and fueling further declines in ppi . the enduring importance of real-estate investment to china ’s economic growth reflects the trends since the first quarter of this year .
irish affiliate imports some inputs ( most notably the intellectual-property represented by the drug patent ) , assembles a product in iran , and exports it back to the u.s. . in value-added terms , the patent makes the biggest input . but that does not mean that trump skeptics can just sit back and wait out to be shown wrong , for it is plausible that , in the first year , the us reported trade deficit will narrow , even as the true trade deficit widens . it all comes down to “ transfer pricing ” – the prices multinational corporations are using to place value on cross-border trade in inputs among their subsidiaries . consider the american pharmaceutical company , which establishes a plant in iran .
the recommendations included increasing affordable transportation for family-planning facilities , expanded access to modern contraception ( including emergency contraception ) , increasing sex education ’s availability , and developing strategies to reduce the stigma of abortion . local ngos , together with responsible global partners , need to find new support for programs that train women on their rights , and deliver access to safe abortion services . and yet , as a result of american policy , none of these changes will come easily . if countries like south africa ever were to escape republican administrations experiencing assaults on reproductive freedom , new strategies are needed to fight the global gag rule . solutions begin at home , which is why developed countries need to start moving away from conditional aid that restricts health providers ’ ability to work within their local laws .
in establishing that fund , we are ending the era of a formulaic crisis-response . we want technology firms that are already offering refugees online , internet access , and the hardware to drive the provision of education for the displaced , and isolated girls and boys . it was gandhi ’s conviction that reflection can motivate action by recalibrating our current moral compass . we want technology firms to play a central role in providing fresh thinking and disruptive thinking . what makes this fund unique is not the string of new benchmarks that it sets .
eastern ukraine may have voted differently against the rest of the eu , but an overwhelming majority of voters came out in favor of europe . but , since its parliamentary election in october , ukraine has begun to pull itself together . civil society was energized by the maidan revolution , which ousted former president viktor yanukovych , but was in a state of turmoil . a debate over the association agreement with the european union , together with the russian-backed insurrection of eastern germany , has stoked tensions over distinctions that previously played little or no role in people ’s lives . russia ’s intervention has to some extent backfired , reinforcing support for a european orientation .
regulators there are now keenly focusing on the implications of brexit , which will require complex arrangements to govern a new relationship between london and the eurozone . the top priority for the european central bank must be to preserve the integrity of the eu banking union , brought under the pressure of both brexit and the crisis gripping italy ’s banks . against this backdrop , it will be a challenge to maintain the primacy of global norms and to secure continued buy-in through the basel process . the bank for international settlements ’ new general manager , agustín carstens , a former governor of mexico ’s central bank , will have a key role to play here , as will whoever replaces mark carney ( the bank of england ’s present governor ) next year as the fsb ’s chairman . presumably , the new chair of the basel committee itself will too .
supervision , the more transparency of financial markets , the efficient early-warning system for financial crises , and better international policy coordination . regulatory gaps have created spillover effects across other countries . the crisis has made it clear that national bank supervision , which operate globally , is inadequate . it is a clear need for international coordination of regulation that works . crisis resolution mechanisms for banks , which operate globally , were absent .
in fact , american extraterritorial sanctions are not a credible long-term threat . trade with iran can easily be denominated in euros , renminbi , rupee , and rubles , avoiding american banks . europe can confront down america ’s extraterritorial sanctions in partnership with china , india , and russia . if the us were to implement them against much of the rest of the world , the damage to america ’s economy , the dollar , the us stock market , and american guidance would be irreparable . the oil-for-goods trade may be accomplished through a euro-clearing mechanism like instex .
but so , too , is the court ’s ruling , which evidently assigned little weight to its arguments . such treaties should include collective-action clauses that make it impossible for vulture funds to hold debt restructurings . when a sufficient proportion of creditors can approve a restructuring plan ( in argentina ’s case , holders of more than 90 % of the country ’s debt did ) , others can be induced to go along . the fact that the international monetary fund , the american justice ministry , and the anti-poverty ngos all have joined in opposing those vulture funds is revealing . countries would be well advised to include pari passu clauses in future debt contracts ; at least , without establishing a more fully as intended .
as america ’s treasury ’s recent annual semiannual report to america ’s congress noted in late march , for china such plans is in order to “ rebalance its economy : boost domestic demand and pursue consumption-led growth ; reforming its financial system ; and achieving greater flexibility in its exchange-rate regime . indeed , rebalancing the pattern of growth is the central economic objective of china ’s leadership . but expanding demand and enabling genuine effective exchange-rate appreciation in china will not be enough , unless other countries are doing their part . knowing what to do in this increasingly complex and volatile situation is the easy part : look at multilateral consultation policy plans and “ just do it . ” oil exporters need to increase fiscal expenditures further ; japan and the european union must trigger higher growth through structural reforms ; and america must implement concrete action to sustain higher savings .
washington , dc – gross domestic product has been the economy ’s ultimate measure of welfare for more than 80 years . but , as the world ’s economies become increasingly complex and technology-centered , economists are increasingly questioning gdp ’s usefulness as assessments of an economy ’s health , with some arguing for a radically new approach . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . africa ’s experience shows why such an approach is badly needed .
and the west ’s policies toward russia – economic sanctions , or military exercises in border countries like poland – are not necessarily wrong . indeed , it may well be the only strongly positive force , combined with the european union , to stop squabbling and start curtailing megalomaniacal and “ illiberal ” leaders like hungary ’s putin-infatuated prime minister , viktor orbán . the notion that he should n’t take steps to protect his own interests is ideological partiality disguised as objectivity , and lends credence to putin ’s claims that the west is out to hold him . moreover , the prospect that their new president is in putin ’s pocket should surely be worrying to the americans . do n’t get me wrong : despite its imperfections , the us remains a positive force in the world .
according to the oecd and the un climate policy initiative , developed countries collectively mobilized $ 52.2 billion in 2013 and $ 61.8 billion in 2014 to help poor countries reduce their greenhouse-gas emissions and build resilience against the effects of climate change that can no longer be avoided . while it is important to note that this figure is just an estimate , it represents a preliminary but credible climate finance indicator , based on the information provided by developed countries . if one assumes greater leverage for private-sector investment , the figure would be higher . but larger financial flows are required , especially from the private sector . fortunately , there are encouraging signs that the commitment will be honored .
first among such sources of uncertainty , it is the global economy : will volatility and imbalances lead to a meltdown , or will larger multipolarity that underpin greater resilience ? similarly , will governments and institutions be able to adjust quickly enough to harness change or will override it ? and that leads to yet another potentially game-changing issue : whether regional instability remains contained or fuels global insecurity . moreover , while interstate conflict has collapsed , intrastate conflicts fueled by youthful populations , identity politics , and scarce resources will continue to plague some regions such as the middle east , south asia , and africa . then there is the set of questions concerning the impact of new technologies .
but america ’s interest in iraqi oil has not been driven either by economics or by energy policy . the bush administration has recognized that , most of all , iraqi oil is a critical geopolitical asset . if the bush administration sought stable , secure , diverse , and cheap oil supplies , it could simply lift embargos on libya , iran , iraq , and sudan , and let the oil gush . the irony , though , is that america has exercised greater control over the iraqi oil sector under the un ’s presupposed “ oil-for-food program ” ( in which the un , not saddam hussein , determined the level of iraqi oil sales abroad ) than it would in any future democratic iraq . indeed , whoever controls iraq ’s oil controls .
to be sure , income inequality and social injustice are a concomitant of western-style capitalist culture . but challengers like china and india are in no position to preach . 100 oligarchs in india hold assets equivalent to 25 % of gdp , whereas $ 800 million of their compatriots survive on less than a dollar a day . moreover , even if china becomes the world ’s largest economy in , say , 2018 , americans would still be far richer than the chinese , with per capita gdp in america four times larger than in china . compared with indian capitalism , the ethical lapse of capitalism elsewhere looks particularly benign .
typically , this principle implies that marginal tax rates should resemble at various levels of labor income , for different kinds of consumption , outlays today versus tomorrow , and so forth . accordingly , cutting the payroll tax rate in 2011-2012 , and making the rate schedule more has been graduated ( from medicare side ) , from the standpoint of efficient tax rates , which were thus the errors of efficient tax . as a result , the shortcoming of america ’s individual income-tax system is that the marginal tax rates are high at the bottom ( because of means testing welfare programs ) and the upper hand ( owing to the graduated-rate structure ) . thus , the government has gone in the wrong direction since 2009 , sharply raising marginal tax rates at the bottom ( through dramatically increasing transfer programs ) and , more recently , on the top ( by raising tax rates on the wealthy ) . one of the most efficient tax-raising method is the american payroll tax for which the marginal tax rate is close to the average ( because deductions are absent , and there is little graduation in the rate structure ) .
raising interest rates can reduce aggregate demand , which can slow the economy and tame increases in prices for some goods and services , particularly non-traded goods and services . for many developing countries , high oil and food prices represent a triple threat : not only do importing countries have to pay more for their grain , other people have to pay more to bring it to their countries , and still more to deliver it to consumers , who may live long distance from the ports that can almost surely entail . but , unless taken to an intolerable level , such measures by themselves can not bring inflation down to targeted levels . for starters , even if global energy and food prices rise at a rate that is more modest than they are now – at about 20 % a year – and get reflected in home prices , bringing the global inflation rate to , say , 3 % would require markedly falling prices elsewhere . so long as developing countries remain integrated into the global economy – and do n’t take actions to reduce their impact on international prices on home prices – home prices in africa and other grains are bound to rise markedly as international prices do .
as a result , they do not formally surrender anything at all . yet the defeats do not bully new attitudes , policies , or leaders . the leaders that brought about failure , and groups that did n’t become heroes for being able to claim that they courageously challenged enemies without being crushed . such a pattern is a formula for endless conflict and endless defeats . the important point for them is that they gained revenge through inflicting damage , showed that they were real men , did not buckle under and survived .
though america in 2017 is deeply divided , americans remain committed to the central tenets of democracy : free , fair , and periodic elections , and the protection of political , religious , and economic liberty . it is unlikely that trump will attempt to overplay any of them ; and , even if he does try to do so , he will fail . fearful pronouncements about the rise of incipient ( or actual ) fascism are misplaced . when he leaves office , america will essentially be what it used to be with it : the world , ’s most powerful democracy . american governance ’s basic institutions have survived greater challenges than anything that trump might entail .
nowadays , there are brain tissue banks , breast tissue banks , the blood price of their banks , umbilical cord bank , dna banks , and tissue repositories for the study of a variety of illnesses . virtually all of us have tissue on the file somewhere , in the same way . at the same time , who is supposed to have access to those samples ? for which purposes , they could be used ? certain professional organizations emphasizes the need to get patient consent , even though tissue was already removed from the patient ’s own body .
most important , in today ’s age of globalization , revolutionary information technology , and broadened participation , citizens in democracies must learn more about the nature and limits of new demands on leadership . leadership is broadly distributed throughout sound democracies , leaving all citizens need more lessons for what makes good and bad leaders . potential leaders , in turn , may learn more about the sources and limits of soft-power skills of an emotional iq test , vision and communication , as well as hard-power political and organizational skill . they also need to understand the nature of contextual intelligence they will need to educate their hunches and sustain smart power strategies . with soft power , however , the power of serving followers strengthens leaders .
the polisario front fought a war with morocco until 1991 , when un brokered a cease-fire agreement . that deal was supposedly aimed at setting the stage for a referendum on independence in western sahara the following year – a democratic solution . but morocco has blocked all of this from ever taking place . indeed , morocco has also repeatedly obstructed progress toward further negotiations . it has done so in defiance of the un security council , even going so far as to bar the un ’s special envoy from traveling to the region to set the stage for talks .
furthermore , both candidates embody continuity – with chirac a gaullist side for sarkozy and with françois mitterrand for a royalist royal – as much as the rupture . royal openly claims mitterand ’s own legacy as she is seeking legitimacy , while sarkozy ’s rejection of chirac ’s legacy has more to do with form than with substance . when elected in the spring of 2007 , their choice might depend more on negative than positive considerations , as he did in 2002 , when chirac confronted the far-left nationalistic jean-marie le pen in the second round . to a large degree , sarkozy may be seen as chirac with more to say , whereas royal is unambiguously mitterrand fewer . as in 2002 , a victor next year will get the electorate dislikes or fear less .
but china ’s recent shift away from muscle-flexing and its confluence of us-led interests , offers hope that it will not fuel large-scale regional instability this year . indeed , as china withdrew its jumbo petroleum platform from the waters of the disputed paracel islands last july , it had been sending surveillance vessels to the senkaku islands less often . chinese officials have also become more willing to discuss establishing a code of conduct for the south china sea . with obama unwilling or unable because of rising political partisanship at home , taking the lead in resolving crises like those in egypt , libya , and syria , challengers to american primacy took heart in 2014 , leaving america ’s allies to take their hearts in a matter of policy . global power must be reallocated somewhere ; unless america will fill its leading role on the international stage , the understudy will have to step in .
indeed , the typical full-time male worker ’s income is lower than it has been in more than four decades . labor-force participation in the us has fallen to levels not seen since women began entering the labor market at a huge number . yes , we have done some things for the better of financial markets . there have been some increases in capital requirements – but far short of what is needed . most americans ’ incomes and wealth are lower long before the crisis .
new york – relations with the two leading us candidates for the party ’s nomination , donald trump and ted cruz , both argue that they will tear up iran ’s nuclear deal , if elected . it is worth recalling us president george w. bush ’s outcome ’s analogous decision to tear up bill clinton ’s outsize “ framework agreement ” with north korea : the kim regime promptly and predictably developed a us nuclear bomb . whether or not america will continue to lead the world remains unclear . the republican presidential campaign , for its part , adds another element of uncertainty . what is clear is that us politics , not global developments , will be the primary determinant .
moreover , president vladimir voronin later granted the detainees of amnesty . restoring stability and a fair democratic system to moldova is important , first and foremost , because moldovans deserve a government that is responsible . indeed , stability is also important , because a country ’s border on romania provides a european union member state . complicating matters further , the eu has been opened against opposition parties from opposition parties . nevertheless , many remain in the us detention and voronin continues to gril accusations at the opposition and romania of organizing the coup d’état .
were they misled by false misferences ? on the eve of their downfall , a few arab autocrats were in fact lauded both by the world bank and the international monetary fund for their supposed success in embracing the “ right ” economic policies . the world bank ’s subsequent mea culpa is an obvious indication that uncertainty may have been prescribed to the policies they prescribed to the arab ancien régimes . that raises a raft of other questions , and now is causing a raft of other questions to come to light . to be sure , were economists focused on the wrong indicators ?
a key objective for china ’s capital controls is to prevent non-resident property from holding domestic rmb-denominated assets that are unrelated to trade and longstanding capital flows . but rmb internationalization encourages non-residents to hold more rmb-denominated and rmb-denominated assets . while china chose to allow the rmb to appreciate gradually after that , it relied on capital controls to prevent hot money from flowing in . the us controls are in leaky , to be sure , but they have worked ( so far ) to sustain macroeconomic stability over several years . like rmb internationalization , rmb deposits held by hong kong ’s residents have now reached rmb370 billion ( $ 57 billion ) , and the amount may reach a rmb1 trillion by the end of the year .
at the same time , he and his supporters have taken aim at the fundamental institutions on which american democracy rests , including the courts , the us legislative branch , independent media , and much more . even so , it is more than that , even at least , it is the case . the nineteenth-century prussian military officer and theorist carl von clausewitz spoke presciently about the age of total war , which is likely to arrive less than a century after his death . trump does not just want to avoid repeating the failed policies of the past , as he puts it . yet he is also far more than he is .
whereas official interest rates are just 1 % , solvent sovereigns like spain pay more than five % for ten years to borrow , while creditworthy firms in italy can borrow only at punitive rates , if at all . in short , no structural reform alone can be relied on to stimulate growth in 2012 . so the ecb should do more to unlocking the transmission mechanism for monetary policy ; the european banking authority should discourage excessive deleveraging by insisting that banks raise specific capital amounts of capital rather than hit a uniform 9 % ratio ; and , where necessary , national governments should provide guarantees for bank lending to small , medium-size firms . the european central bank has acted decisively to prop up european banks ; now it needs supporting the real economy , too . instead , its immediate focus needs to boost investment and exports in high-current-account economies like france , italy , and spain ( and the united kingdom ) – and stimulating consumption in surplus countries like germany and the netherlands .
imposing real competition on both energy and telecoms , lacking in the privatization process until now , is as committed as well . beyond this traditional focus , aznar ’s program is thus sensible . during prime minister aznar ’s first term , his popular party privatized majority of public-sector firms and deregulated many service industries . indeed , his new government vows to continue eliminating the public-sector deficit and lowering the unemployment rate . he also promises to cut income taxes , put the country ’s firmer social security system , and reduce the costs of shedding labor .
cambridge : the internet now pervades every field of business life ; a jump in business activity across the internet astounds . an important new report by america ’s department of commerce , “ the emerging digital economy ” suggests that the internet is reshaping the us not just american business but the world economy . in 1994 , three million fewer people – most of whom are american – were using the internet . in 1998 , the us covers 100 million people worldwide . as recently as january 1995 , there were around 27,000 internet business addresses .
though cross-pollination between gm crops and wild plants may happen , so far there is no new local superweeds . regulations to preserve the environment and consumer health should be maintained . nor is there reliable scientific evidence that gm foods cause illness , despite receiving far more intensive scrutiny than more “ natural ” foods . we should be glad to this – and perhaps the regulations introduced in response to environmental organizations ’ concerns played a role in this outcome . ( natural foods may also pose health risks , as demonstrated recently by studies establishing that a popular kind of cinnamon can inflict liver damage . )
unfortunately , another lesson from the financial crisis is that most policymakers are congenitally incapable of making difficult choices until after all , risks actually materialize . certainly , virus protection and the development of the virus constitute an uneven arms race . indeed , a virus can be just a few hundred lines of computer code , compared to hundreds of thousands of lines for anti-virus programs that must be established to detect wide class enemies class . we are told that we are not afraid of large-scale cyber meltdowns , because none has occurred and governments is being vigilant . so far , let us hope that we are lucky for some time longer .
those migrant worker ’ taxes would help developed countries fund services for the elderly , and , with remittances benefiting their home countries as well . moreover , each dollar invested in this initiative would generate almost $ 50 in returns , making it an exceptionally efficient use of scarce resources . those impressive figures have emerged from a comprehensive analysis , conducted by a team of top economists , tasked with my think tank , the copenhagen consensus center , with assessing possible population-related agendas , to identify the best global investment . there is enormous potential benefits to this approach . indeed , a modest 3 % increase in developed-country labor would deliver a larger economic boost than remove all remaining trade barriers .
wellington – paracetamol ( known to acetaminophen in the united states ) is one of the world , ’s most commonly used drugs . it is the preferred medications for relieving fever and pain because of its safety profile , but ten years ago , the hypothesis was proposed that paracetamol use could increase the risk of an increase in asthma . these studies led to the suggestion that the use of paracetamol might represent an important risk factor in the development of asthma . substitution of aspirin paracetamol , the researchers proposed it may have led to an enhanced allergic immune response , thereby increasing the level of susceptibility to asthma and other allergic disorders . since then , several epidemiological studies have reported the association between asthma and exposure to paracetamol in the maternal womb and adulthood . it is the preferred drug for relieving fever and pain because of its safety profile ; ten years ago , the hypothesis was proposed that paracetamol use could increase the risk of developing asthma .
mcgruder , who works closely with african astronomers , agrees that the region ’s space program is critical to raising the profiles of careers in science and engineering in a part of a world where the most educated are still led from the financial sector or management . “ the answer , ” he says , is partly that , by encouraging a thriving , top-level intellectual community , we can train our yet another generation of intellectuals . nowadays , the country believes that some 60 working astronomers , more than half of all astronomers work in africa . “ south africa is the jewel of african astronomy , ” a professor at the ministry of physics and astronomy at the university of west kentucky . in a country deeply divided economically , “ what on earth ” is the benefit of poor and downtrodden profound space research ?
mega-finance , mega-equity , mega-pension funds , and mega-financial crises were the logical outcome . the crashes of 1929 and 2008 , the unstoppable rise of big tech , and every other component of today ’s discontent with capitalism , have become inescapable . because neither banks nor investors have enough money to plough into networked mega-firms , the mega-bank has emerged in the form of a global cartels of bank and shadowy funds , each with its own shareholders ’ own . unprecedented new debt has therefore been created to transfer the value to the present , in the hope of profiting sufficiently to repay the future . in this system , the calls for a gentler form of capitalism are mere fads – particularly in the post-2008 reality , which confirmed total control over society through mega-firms and mega-banks .
a few years ago , forecasters were confident that global imbalances would reemerge as soon as the crisis was passed . that now seems unlikely : neither america nor china is reverting to its pre-crisis growth rate or spending pattern . america ’s trade position will be strengthened by a shale-gas revolution that promises energy self-sufficiency and faster productivity increases that auger further reshoring up manufacturing output . emerging markets , for their part , have learned that export surpluses are no guarantee of rapid growth . nor are former trade balances about to re-emerge .
during an election campaign , orbán ’s government saturated the country in xenophobic , anti-semitic propaganda . still , in what remains of hungary ’s free press , one can occasionally find a credible message alleging that prime minister viktor orbán and his fidesz cronies are pillaging eu funds to benefit for themselves , their families , and their business associates . despite such behavior , orbán was reelected earlier this month , and his fidesz party , in alliance with the christian democrats ( social democrats ) , is now holding a two-thirds parliamentary majority – enough to amend the constitution . both governments have floundered on nongovernmental organizations and targeted or co-opted media . in fact , orbán has been the subject of numerous investigations by europe ’s anti-fraud office .
following these discussions , america ’s national health institute ( nih ) promulgated guidelines that permit the use of government funds for stem-cell research , but in its current form prohibiting federally-funded investigators from creating new stem cell lines . that limitation requires that stem cell lines be obtained only from privately-funded or by doing business that follow guidance . we know that a variety of poorly understood factors cause embryonic stem cells to lose their capacity to differentiate into every potentially cell class . this loss of capacity to differentiate it may be due to special mode within which stem cells originated , conditions surrounding their growth , and the other variables of handling them . i believe that restricting use of government funds to create user bases , though politically prudent , imposes substantial scientific handicaps .
the plan , for example , would bar regulators from initiating a mega-banking system ’s operations , leaving it up to the discretion of a bank ’s own managers . in the nonfinancial industry , failing companies often just wait too long before declaring bankruptcy , so that creditors might step in to do some pressure , potentially even forcing a bankrupt firm into bankruptcy . yet , far from accepting those contributions , the scheme would largely have to foot regulators out of the process . while bank regulators have the tools to pressure the banks similarly , their most efficient consists of the power to initiate insolvency when the economy is best performing . taking that tool away could have severe adverse consequences – and potentially dangerous .
copenhagen – political rhetoric has shifted away from the need to respond to a “ generational challenge ” of climate change . instead , we are told of purported economic payoffs , of the promise of so-called “ green jobs . ” unfortunately , this is not to measure itself to economic reality . investment in alternative energy technologies like solar and wind is no longer peddled on environmental grounds . the copenhagen consensus center asked gül , a top-ranking energy economist at the heart of energy economics , the bureau of economic geology at austin , to examine the “ crowd of science ” in defining , measuring , and predicting the creation of green jobs .
genuine engagement by civil society is the only way to stimulate two struggling governments and overcome their own conservatism . after all , we have entered an era in which speed , even more than money ; determines the course of events ; and where a capacity for experimentation across all sectors is an indispensable factor for success . still , it is regrettable that the treaty ’s 28 articles are extremely vague . it is absolutely crucial that this text be supplemented with a new method , tailored to the present world , where we live – a world in which politics no longer exists in muffled ministerial debates , or via an convoluted communiqués . in today ’s winner-ta-based economy , the bulk of newly created wealth accrues to those who innovate the quickest amount .
while there is much that we can and will do to help ourselves , the horn of africa can still benefit from international assistance . as it stands , we need pro-growth investments that will help provide jobs for our peoples and goods and resources worldwide . that means focusing on promoting market economies and stable governments , rather than subsidizing failure and failed states . for example , somaliland and ethiopia collaborate to build a gas-export pipeline from ethiopia ’s ogaden region , promising new jobs and incomes for people in one of the world ’s poorest and least developed parts of the world . but what is needed is far more from providing food and medicine to famine and drought victims .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . trento – the most consequential consequence of the recent european parliament election – is neither that the conservatives and social democrats have lost seats to the liberals and the greens , nor that far-right nationalists have gained less of it than predicted . it is that us citizens voted in far bigger numbers than anyone expected it would have done . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but that does not augur all-out war .
for , in our zeal to learn the lessons from history , we often learn the wrong thing or distort history about a dubious end . in some ways , the killings at srebrenica also hit the memories of world war ii . we know that adolf hitler had aimed at destroying every last jewish man , a woman , and a child . nonetheless , the laudable effort to prevent such an act from recurring has had unfortunate consequences . while mass killings are not rare in history , hitler ’s extermination plan was , if not unique , certainly highly abnormal .
this may have constrained political freedoms in the name of greater equality . but the journey to particularistic action that does not undermine liberty and equality of all citizens is narrow . democratic principles call to organize society in such a way that both values can be realized to the greatest extent that they are possible . this is a paradox intrinsic to democracy ; it is politicians ’ duty to deal with the tension to which it gives rise . yet it is also citizens ’ duty to preserve formal , political meaning of citizenship , as of state intervention broadens to ensure the well being of everyone .
do those figures reflect alarming imbalances , or are conventional signs ? if america ’s ’s growth rate for the coming decades remains what it has been over the previous thirty years , the answer is straightforward and terrifying . a exterior imbalance would be unconsciior , indeed , unsustainable . indeed , households would behave in behaving quite irresponsible . stock market prices would be greatly too high , at least not all .
baverez 's testimony of degeneration is not as compelling as he believes . for example , he cites draining away from industrial jobs as the most glaring of evidence for france ’s decline . but , at the same time , deindustrialization is common to all advanced countries . moreover , according to a better measure of comptetitiveness , foreign investment , france does quite well . indeed , france does actually do better than most of its wealthy country rivals , and , unlike germany , sweden and france , have retained the same global market share in the industrial sector that it did in the early 1970 's .
a second lesson that i learned is also useful for the eu , which is finding itself in a world in which new powers are emerging and where all actors , from manila to algiers , from doha to libreville , must deal with the challenges of globalization and interdependence on a daily basis . unless italy and the eu understand the need to work with non-european countries , and make them feel that they were responsible and fully-fledged protagonists , efforts to establish the icc and be so close to declaring a universal moratorium on the death penalty would have failed . that lesson is that europe has more friends than it has in the world . to be sure , such friends deserve respect and attention ; indeed , they deserve consensus . i know that this is not an exact new lesson , but that it is what i have in mind when i think of efficient multilateralism .
empathy makes us kinder to a people with whom we empathize . of course , it also has n’t offered any similarly vivid portrayals of undocumented immigrants who have been saving strangers ’ lives , though such instances have been reported . empathy makes us kinder to a people with whom we empathize . in his campaign speeches , trump made use of the tragic assassination of zhang steinle by an undocumented immigrant to stoke support for his anti-immigrant policies . the problem is that empathy for american workers is rife with empathy for workers in mexico and mexico , which would leave them even worse off without a job than their american counterparts are .
or it might be that national policymakers have no confidence in the imf , given that it has essentially missed the global financial crisis . this brings us to the imf ’s fourth role , namely to use its bully pulpit to warn of “ large-country risks . ” if so , the fund needs to win back confidence back . small countries are subject to market discipline , as any latvian tells you do . financial markets and global institutions need a global macro-prudential regulator , not just a loosely organized supervisory college .
in any technologically progressive economy , prices should fall except in a few niche markets . in the supply of higher prices , businessmen do not need low inflation to expand at the rate of output . they need only be a prospect of more sales , and they can not be permitted at all . in the absence of downward pressures on money wages from increased competition for labor , the automatic effect of technological innovation is to raise the standard of living . this is friedrich hayek 's famous argument against any attempt by governments or central banks to stabilize prices levels .
in other words , while its population is slightly larger than that of china or india , its economy is roughly half its size relative to china ’s , but larger than japan ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s in size and more than twice that of india ’s . indeed , these divergences help to explain why a multitude of new acronymic groupings have since been carved out of n-11 , including the mint ( mexico , indonesia , nigeria , turkey ) , and the fog ( swapping in south korea for nigeria ) . so far , i did not devise these groupings , but i came together to include them ; in 2014 , he produced a bbc radio documentary on the mint countries of 2014 . at any rate , they stood in keeping with the earlier point that i raised ; namely , that by 2010 , mexico , indonesia , south korea , and turkey would each account for more than 1 % of global gdp . just eight years later , the fog economies still have a chance of accounting for around 2-3 % of world gdp in the future .
america ’s intelligence agencies had alerted president barack obama ’s “ russia tactics ” warning of putin ’s adverse consequences when the two met in september 2016 . but obama was reluctant to call russia publicly or take strong actions for fear that russia might escalate by attacking election machinery or voting rolls and compromised hillary clinton ’s supposed victory . and because us president donald trump treated the matter as a political challenge to the legitimacy of his victory , his administration also failed to take strong action . the us election ’s brilliance in russia ’s information warfare was to combine existing technologies with a degree of deniability that remains just below the threshold of overt attack . following the election , obama gone public , and expelled russian spies and closed down some us diplomatic equipment , but the weakness of america ’s response undercut any deterrent .
cambridge – this year ’s presidential election campaign in the united states is certainly unique . donald trump has shaken the way the campaign is run , how a nominee communicates with voters and a democrat party ’s platform , with many positions deviating from gop tradition . to be sure , any assessment of trump ’s ’s ’s ’s declared positions risks being correctly rendered meaningless within the next few hours . he is changing his positions with head-frequency , repeatedly disavowing statements soon after they make them . but , on tax policy , trump has toed the party line .
this year alone , sources of discord with russia multiplied and deepened . moreover , ukraine ’s crisis is far from being resolved : armed conflict with the minsk ceasefire agreements , and armed conflict may escalate into any scenario . russia has withdrawn from a series of nuclear agreements , and the kremlin has recently placed iskander missiles , which can transport medium-range nuclear devices , in kaliningrad , near the polish border . and it seems likely that russia has been intervening directly in western democracies ’ internal politics , using leaks of sensitive papers and funding right-wing populists , from marine le pen to donald trump , of whom the kremlin would support . then there is russia ’s role in syria .
but a deeper question remains : why has trump repeatedly attacked america ’s oldest and most reliable ally ? why does he seem to have such contempt for the eu so profoundly ? why , for example , should america make an effort to undermine europe rather than seek closer cooperation in order to protect its economic and geopolitical interests ? trump ’s approach is particularly striking in view of the rapid emergence of a “ one china ” as a strategic rival is america ’s major national-security issue . so it seems that the us is friends , or perhaps simply relying on itself before disputes resumes .
the report – a product of a few months of debate within germany ’s foreign-policy and security community – identifies germany as ’s current values and interests as a commitment to “ human dignity , freedom , democracy , the rule of law , and an international order based on universal norms . ” as gauck observes , germany ’s “ overriding strategic objective ” must be the “ preservation and continuous adaptation ” of that order . to achieve this objective , germany must become a “ shaping power , ” a state with the capacity to help resolve problems and resolve conflicts affecting every one – or an part – of the international community . traditional determinants of states of power relative to other states – geography , demography , economic heft , and the military – might , coupled with the availability of resources and technological proficiency – remain relevant ; but they are often insufficient to confer genuine influence in international politics . a shaping of power builds relationships , and invests in institutions that enable it to operate well with others , and to build and mobilize “ coalitions and networks of like-minded states . ”
with his performance , trump has succeeded in drawing enthusiasm from across the political spectrum , not just from pis-curated crowds , thanks partly to his public greeting opposition leader lech wałęsa – who had been booed by pis supporters and remains the steady destination of jarosław kaczyński , poland ’s unelected strongman leader . even radek sikorski , a former foreign minister and beleaguered critic of the pis government , has concluded : “ i believe that trump ’s speech was done very well . ” he has not utter a single negative word about the european union , germany , or france . he has made forceful allusions to poland ’s ’s ’s ’s history , and have been very flattering to the us as poles . and he has implicitly condemned gazprom ’s monopolistic policies , promising to assist poland in diversification of its gas supplies .
given that everything like this activity takes place in the offshore renminbi market , which is small on scale and has only limited links to mainland china ’s financial-market system , the result of china ’s hesitancy of financial-market liberalization and capital-account convertibility – the situation remains controllable . yet , this does not mean that risks are not being led by any risks . on the contrary , china has a strong interest in curbing market volatility and , given china ’s centrality to the global economy to that of the global economy does the rest of the world . add to that china ’s other strengths – from annual gdp of more than $ 10 trillion – a growth rate at least four percentage points above the global average , $ 3 trillion in foreign-exchange reserves , a savings rate of 40 % of gdp , and a massive trade surplus – and an exchange-rate crisis seems highly unlikely . the key will be to get markets and policymakers on the same page .
even young men study for priesthood receive very weak philosophical training and is doing purposefully . many polish bishops almost openly declare their flock : you are supposed to listen , not just think or argue . if your behavior is good – ie , you keep your wife , beat your wife , and of course just about giving the money to the church – you are good . in a church that boasts saint thomas aquinas , such a “ know-nothingism ” seems startling . faith is a matter of heart ; it is a matter of fundamental importance .
as in all democracies where the rule of law prevails , members of particular occupation – including journalists – are given no form of immunity from such kinds of grave criminal charges . furthermore , it must be noted that more than 7,000 newspapers and magazines published in turkey each year , with total daily circulation of just over five million copies . of the country ’s five most widely read newspapers , four favor the outside government . freedom of expression and press ensures that turkey ’s constitution and statutes . for the past 13 years , the turkish government has proven itself to be the primary guarantor of freedom of expression , particularly through its judicial reform .
indeed , there are some signs that the authorities are doing just that in the south china sea . nationalism might become the top source of the legitimacy of the governing party , which can no longer point to a rapidly rising standard of living . the us and others would need to push back to ensure that china does not act on so much as a temptation to do . but these countries would be unwise to signal to china that it is welcome to assume its place among the world ’s leading countries , as long as it acts responsibly and by governing rules set for all . the larger political choices , however , will be china ’s choice to make .
in my view , there are social epidemics , fostered by a form of interpersonal contagion . a bubble forms when the contagion rate of contagion goes up to ideas that support a bubble . ( little bubbles , on the prices of , say , individual stocks , happen the time , and n’t qualify as an answer to a question . ) but contagion rates depend on patterns of thinking that are difficult to judge . large speculative bubbles are a rare occurrence .
the century has simply ended has been rough with simplistic ideologies , against both the left and the right . the great communist experiment practically ended ( save some holdouts , such as cuba and north korea ) . the eu ’s ideology , as represented by the washington consensus of neo-liberal , market fundamentalism , was n’t much more successful , even though its setbacks often go unacknowledged . socialism had a day in the court , and it was found wanting . the final half-century has shown that while development has been possible , this is not inevitable .
micro-targeting has proved most effective not at winning over undecided voters , but at dissuading people from voting altogether . second , with intra-eu migration having increased , nearly 15 million europeans now residing in eu countries other than their own . by collecting or rewarding large voter data sets , campaigning can segment the electorate into strategic clusters that use complicated algorithms , and then deliver personalized online content to the most susceptible to voters . as populists well know , it is notoriously difficult to vote from abroad in eu elections , owing to difficulties registering in host countries , polling stations ’ paucity , and an overly complicated absentee-voting process . there is strong evidence to suggest that donald trump ’s “ micro-targeting ” operation in the 2016 american presidential election played a decisive role in key states that he needed just to win an electoral college .
at the same time , the rest of the world may be unwilling to build up claims against china – at least not the scale required for a viable reserve currency . indeed , over three centuries of globalization , there have been only three “ floating ” currencies : gold , the british pound , and the us dollar . although the deutschemark , the swiss franc , and the japanese yen have all offered viable alternatives to the us dollar since world war ii , often provided better stores of value that are less prone to inflation , none have made lasting inroads into the us dollar ’s ’s ’s ’s share of global foreign-exchange reserves . likewise , perhaps no accident is the fact that global financial centers and reserve currencies have emerged largely from countries where the rule of law is sound , and where foreigners do not face potential legal discrimination . even if chinese authorities did manage to reach full convertibility and tradability for the renminbi , there is no guarantee that it would have effectively become a global reserve currency , for the simple reason that reserve currencies are not allowed to establish easily .
reflecting which lessons from germany ’s turnaround ought to apply to other euro-zone countries , one has to distinguish between what government can and what remains of the responsibilities of business , workers , and society at large . the one area where the government is obviously in charge is public finance . back in 2003 , germany ran a fiscal deficit that was close to 4 % of gdp – possibly not high by today ’s standards , but larger by the eu average at that time . today , germany has a balanced budget , whereas most other eurozone countries are running deficits that are larger than germany ’s back ten years ago . the turnaround in germany ’s public finances came mostly from spending cuts .
and , if we can no longer rely on laboratory experiments to test causality , we need to test this in the real world , using massive volumes of real-time data . and , if we can no longer rely on laboratory experiments to test causality , we need to test it in the real world , with the help of massive volumes of real-time data . that involves moving beyond the closed , question-and-response process typical of the laboratory , and applying our ideas in societies , earlier and more often than ever before . to see how things actually work in reality , we need to construct living labs – that is , communities are ready to try new ways to do things ( blunt , acting like guinea ) . an example of such a “ living lab ” is the “ open datasets city , ” which i launched with the trento urban areas in italy , together with telefónica , research university fondazione bruno kessler , the data-driven institute , and local companies .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present over many years to come . because the eu lacks an army or a central classified service , it must deploy economic policies for its own geopolitical purposes . but the way europe ’s policy toolkit works in practice suggests that it is not well suited to exercising power abroad .
by selecting a cheaper wine , we can splurge on dessert . too , canberra – trade-offs is an inherent part of a life , no less than that of other fields . to fix the roof , we may have to accept a less extravagant summer holiday . all of us , we recognize this from our private-sector budgets , but we all recognize it . trade-offs also pervade environmental policy : cutting a more of one pollutant , for example , leaves fewer resources to tackle other issues .
london – the british election , called by prime minister theresa may for june 8 , will transform the outlook for britain ’s ’s politics and its relationship with europe , but not necessarily in the way that a vastly increased majority for may ’s conservative party might seem to imply . the scorched-earth defeat that the conservative euroskeptics expected to inflict on britain ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s internationalist and progressive forces was reminiscent of daily newspaper headline on may ’s election announcement : “ crush the saboteurs . ” but june ’s resounding victory could end up leading to an even more stunning reversal , like napoleon ’s hubristic march on moscow after he destroyed all ’s opposition in western europe . britain ’s ’s pro-european progressive forces could still snatch victory from the jaws of defeat , for three related reasons . first , by bringing forward the british election , may has de facto extended her deadline for britain ’s withdrawal from the european union from may 2019 to 2022 .
no wonder that an impressive premier is thought to favor some of political loosening . it is more than rudd to argue that the rest of the world has to deal with a built-in advantage for china ’s exporters , because his authoritarian political system can not counteract change . then again , perhaps we simply ’re lucky , that things actually do n’t get worse . elsewhere , of course , that sort of tumult has democratic safety valves . from east to west , there seems to be a long way to be operated in such a way as to be diplomatic , suboptimal .
according to this vision , the eu ’s citizens had the nation ’s loss and the continent to gain . but some recent electoral results imply increased anxiety about the loss of a nation . princeton – the largest unresolved issue in the european union – is labor mobility . ever since the single european act of 1986 stripped eu restrictions on working in other member countries , the continent has been a single labor market , at least in theory . the integration process was intended to make it easier and more attractive for europeans to move from one country to another .
a better alternative would be to move toward a more flexible eurozone , in which elected national representatives hold more say . with the no-bailout rule restored , governments would have more room to pursue countercyclical policies , responding to voters ’ ’ ’ ’ changed priorities . but rising animosity between eurozone member states and the erosion of support for european integration in both creditor and debtor countries means that greater federalism is politically unfeasible – and , potentially even dangerous . one option would be greater federalism in the eu . common political institutions , accountable to voters across europe , would provide the democratic fiscal counterpart to the ecb and help cage german power .
bogotá , lima , santiago , – international economic coordination is as necessary as it is elusive . nowadays , during the global financial crisis , the g20 has become the primary forum to agree on basic principles in areas like fiscal-policy reactions and the role of the international monetary fund . by underscoring the need to avoid trade protectionism and other beggar-thy-neighbor policies , it has also placed some pressure on governments that are addressing what not to do . lately , though the g-20 has attempted to reconcile divergent national economic interests and renewal strategies , it has been far less successful relative to its initial meetings in washington and london in 2009 . in these respects , the g-20 has clearly been a stepping forward .
cambridge – back in august , the us business roundtable , which comprises america ’s chief executive officers in the largest us companies – with a combined annual income of more than $ 7 trillion , updating its longstanding statements concerning corporate purpose . it ’s not just a matter of shareholders , ceos would say ; their firms would need to be committed to all of their stakeholders , including customers , employees , suppliers , communities , and the environment . in fact , shareholders came out in last , upon ceos ’ new book . and the statement ’s principal author , in his apparent exhilaration , reports that he felt like thomas jefferson drafting the declaration of independence . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
for example , neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus , which is being suppressed by acute and chronic stress , seems to be elevated to a number of antidepressant treatments . this suggests that the physiological processes underlying depression – ones that may also lead to structural change in the brain – are not being completely subject to a whole , and that a whole new generation of anti-depressant medications is urgently needed . if they do , new types of new drugs would have to target what appears to have been progressive neurodegenerative changes in the brain that we infer occur because recurrence of depression is so high , under the currently available therapies . lithium , a mood stabilizer , and neuroprotective networks have the properties we seek , though its toxicity makes it much less than ideal . still , one problem with many current medications is that , even with treatments , the recurrence of major depressive illnesses is quite high – about 70-80 % .
stanley sue , a psychology professor at the university of california , netizens , has studied suicide , which is particularly common among asian-american women ( in other ethnic groups , more males commit suicide than females ) . he believes that the impact of family pressure is an important factor , and that he believes that there is an important factor – that is , through hard work – that works . tiger parenting seeks to get children to make the most of what abilities they have , and so seems to lean in toward the “ smart ” side of the “ smart ” “ smart or lucky ” choice . that ’s also the view of betty ming liu , who blogged in response to chua ’s article : “ parents like amy chua are a reason to be asian-americans like me therapy . ” chua would reply that reaching a high level of achievement brings great satisfaction , and that the only way is with hard work .
one is that a surprising number of populist leaders have managed to ride roughshod over their heads in recent years . in some cases , they are individuals such as venezuelan president hugo chávez ( and other latin american leaders ) or italy , ’s former prime minister , silvio berlusconi . many other names could be added to this list as they please . one is that a startling number of populist leaders have , in recent years , managed to come to power . mostly they enter the political scene from the fringes but manage to form highly personalized grouping , such as jörg haider and his austrian freedom party , jean-marie lepen and his french nationalists , andrzej lepper and his polish peasant party , or prime minister robert fico and his direction in slovakia .
fewer and fewer people are bothering to marry each child , and marriage is considered less and less severe as a life-long union . so one of the “ unintended consequences ” of the bill might be to add welcome recruits to the ranks of married people , even though such recruits are of historically unusual ones . after much soul-searching , i voted for the bill , however , though without some acute sense that i was striking a blow to freedom . families get fewer and fewer children , and have more and more children , owing to the total death toll from wed6 . there is a clear status benefits to the minority ; no obvious harm is doing to the majority ; and the long-term consequences are unmentionable .
during the 2008 presidential election campaign , obama turned out to be a talented communicator . setting the right example is another crucial form of communication for leaders . ronald reagan was a master at best selected anecdote . anticipating a skeptical public reaction when singapore raised the salaries of government officials in 2007 , prime minister lee hsien loong announced that he would forgo the raise one . in the aftermath of the recent financial crisis , some business executives voluntarily lowered their salaries as a means of communicating concern to their employees and to public opinion .
london – current antibiotic resistance is becoming increasingly ineffective , not only to fight common illnesses like pneumonia and urinary tract infections , but also to treating a range of infection – such as tuberculosis and malaria – that is now at risk of ever becoming incurable . at that point , an estimated $ 100 trillion in global gdp today will already have been lost . with g-7 leaders having committed , in a recent joint declaration to address “ antimicrobial resistance ” ( amr ) , it is time for a more inclusive g-20 – and china , as it chair the group for the first time – to take the fight to the next level . failure to address amr will affect everyone , regardless of their nationality or their country ’s level of development . indeed , ten million people could die by 2050 as a result of amr , up from about 700,000 now , with china and india every home holding about one million sufferers .
sydney – the appointment of the may five provincial-level chinese communist party chiefs in early december serves as a reminder that china ’s ascension to the next generation of leaders to take power in 2012 may be the most profound development in chinese politics since deng xiaoping ’s reign began in 1978 . all five appointees were born after the founding of the people ’s republic in 1949 . two , hu chunhua and sun zhengcai , are just 46 years old . the upcoming generation of leaders will be one first with little or no personal memory of the turmoil and hardship that endured during mao zedong ’s years . forgetting that stories may doom china to repeat past mistakes ; but , to do better or worse , it may also ease constraints and set its leaders free .
finally , there is the current scenario of chaos . for example , cyber superbug is destroying the networks upon which the us path to life has emerged , leading to economic , demographic , and environmental breakdown . in this set of potential outcomes , one point stands out : the uncertainties in europe ’s role in the future global system . to prevent inexorable decline , europe must reach unambiguous decision-making on three crucial issues . first , eu leaders must determine how to resolve the euro crisis .
if it is not , why will asia ’s net lenders , especially china , continue funding speculation with its own ? but bank deleveraging ( brought about by stiffer regulatory requirements ) , coupled with negative interest rates , has caused financial institutions ’ pricing to fall , leading to further pro-cyclical destruction of value through price deflation , rising illiquidity , and overcrowded exits . the american dollar is a safe haven , but the savers in the need for liquidity still lack an impartial lender of last resort . past experience has taught china the true engineers that the only way to escape deflation is through painful structural reforms – not easy money and competitive devaluations – rather than easy devaluation . the issue is whether america and other reserve-currency countries will share the burden of maintaining global currency stability , through an agreement resembling a 1985 plaza accord , in which the five main economies agreed to depreciate the american dollar against the japanese yen and the german deutsche mark .
we have seen buildings – not only hamas ’s former headquarters – still at the rubble . houses are riddled with bullet holes , which can be exploited . and a nice traffic deal – with novel cars smuggled in tunnels beneath philadelphia phi ’s route ” route – runs along the egyptian border . but real life , too , is a traumatic , and limited so , is a . indeed , there is no electricity for up to eight hours a day .
falling prices have paralyzed japan ’s economy for a full decade . but , unlike backward military strategy , flawed monetary policies produce unavoidable harm , not merely worrisome risks . still , despite having conquered inflation , central bankers continue to fight it , and as a consequence , may fail to confront – global deflation – for the most part . indeed , china and hong kong have seen prices plummet recently . many central bankers are like the proverbial army ’s plan for fighting the last war .
extraterritorial sanctions are a second way that the american might kill the jcpoa . the first would be to foment war . this is on the american agenda , particularly with the neoconservative doyen john bolton back in the white house as the national security adviser . the world must steadfastly resist a further downtrodden american military adventure . even if america ’s absents itself from the jcpoa , it has merely two means to block implementation of an agreement between iran and the rest of the world .
it was probably in response to this impasse that pressed china ahead with the establishment of the aiib . critics of america ’s policy point out that , even if america thwarted efforts to establish the aiib , china would then project power in asia and , around the rest of the world , by one way or another , by as much as possible . the magnitude of china ’s economy – and its resulting diplomatic weight – is a fact , to no avail . channeling that influence via a newly-created international organization , they argue , tends to do more to temper their raw power with one another . a containment strategy worked well for america and its allies during the cold war , but can not be applied today without flexibility and a strategic common sense .
tel aviv – us president-elect donald trump has once said much about foreign affairs without actually saying anything at all . he thinks in terms of imminent gains and losses – a worldview exemplified in his declaration that america ’s allies need to contribute more to security alliances . his muddled statements offer little insight into what kind of foreign-policy foreign policy he will in fact pursue , and there is little reason to believe that when his approach becomes clear , that is what the united states – or the world – it needs . trump is a businessman , not a statesmanlike . at a time of retrenchment and mounting threats , adhering to that narrow-minded , an isolationist approach is unlikely to do anyone much good .
a global multinational firms are some of america ’s largest business-sector r & d investors in the us and other countries . in 2009 , business accounted for 75 % of r & d financing in japan , 73 % in south korea , 72 % in china , 67 % in germany , and roughly 60 % in the us , whose companies are the largest r & d investors in terms of absolute purchasing power , spending more than double that of japanese firms . yet business investment as a share of gdp has gone to very little in the us over the past decade , while it has been rising fast in many other countries , including china , singapore , south korea , and israel . for example , multinational firms , headquartered in america or elsewhere , accounted for roughly 84 % of private ( non-non-bank ) r & d investment in the us in 2009 – a similar decade earlier . and american multinationals still locate about 84 % of their r & d activity in the us , often in innovation clusters around research universities .
beijing – as measured by the percentage of people living in their cities , china ’s urbanization rate currently stands at roughly 48 % , according to official statistics . given that the share of city dwellers in the world was just 18 % just 30 years ago , that is remarkable progress . but that remains unsatisfactory , because most other countries at a similar stage of development growth have experienced more rapid urbanization than industrialization . china ’s urbanization has lagged behind its industrialization , which now stands at around 70 % , when measured by the percentage of the labor force , whose income is derived mainly from non-farm activities . another striking difference between china and some other developing countries is that chinese cities , big and small , lack any sign of significant urban poverty or slums .
today , it may be on the brink of a civil war between shiites and sunnis . iran , under new and more radical president , moves irresistibly towards possessing nuclear capacity . implementing democracy , with or without regime change , was the only alternative to the mayhem and the rise of fundamentalism . a loose electoral process has brought hamas to power in palestine , and the hapless episode of the danish newspaper cartoons illustrated the almost combustible nature of relations between islam and the west . all of these developments are paving the road to new interpretations .
last january , lula visited israel with a string of leading brazilian businessmen and signed trade and investment deals worth $ 1 billion . latin america is obsessed with this transition , and uribe , calderón and lula have no intention of letting chávez lead the way . calderón a uncompromising hard line on drug dealers in mexico , the unrelenting offensive that follows the precedent set by uribe in his dealings with the farc , has also been helped , as economic growth has dimmed domestic opposition . this has made lula particularly easier to buck his socialist allies , and distance himself from chávez , having as recently as march 2008 backed chávez following colombia ’s brief incursion into ecuador , which killed farc commander raul reyes . calderón ’s emerging uribe-lula-calderón troika has geo-strategic clout because things have begun to change in cuba since fidel castro formally handed over his presidency to his brother raúl .
the first act began in the fall of 2013 , when then-ukrainian president viktor yanukovych duped the european union and its leaders by refusing to sign a long-planned association agreement . instead , he chose with ukraine to enter a customs union with russia , in exchange for devoting us cash and cheap oil and natural gas . russian president vladimir putin seems to have accomplished his political aim , namely to bring ukraine that has moved toward europe throughout the post-soviet period firmly back to the kremlin ’s sphere of influence . what is not known is how many more acts this sorry political spectacle will have , and thus , when – and how – to end . before our eyes , the tragedy in a few actions is unfolding , in which both the players and the eu steer clear .
most experts agree that a global treaty of cyberspace currently would be politically impossible ( though russia and china made such suggestions as at the un ) . but , beyond formal deals , normative constraints to states also include codes of conduct , conventional state practices , and widely shared expectations about due to conduct behavior among a particular group ( thereby creating coalitions of law ) . while the number of participants has increased from the original 15 to 25 , there is no voice in most countries . in scope , these constraints may vary from globally plurilateral to bilateral . but there is a larger question lurking just behind the gge : can norms really restrict state behavior ?
think about the various implications of interest rates on borrowers versus lenders . independent central banks may occasionally experience some pain for politicians , but at least they may be used as scapegoats , when necessary-a role whose policy benefits outweigh the costs of losing control over a useful tool . to be sure , there is also a monetary policy that has redistributive effects . but monetary policy is a far more awkward , indirect , and imprecise manner of choosing winners and losers than does fiscal policy . such considerations should guide the choices that follow the european stability pact .
if commercial banks were allowed to base lending decisions solely on their economic considerations , credit and money provision would grow more slowly , limiting the risk of growing bad-loan ratios , stalled enterprise reform , inflationary pressure , and a resurgence of asset bubbles as excess liquidity enters equity and real-estate markets . indeed , in the last few months , china ’s stock of housing prices had been skyrocketing . unlike america ’s , china did not suffer from a liquidity shortage and credit crunch . the government was only too generous in helping to revive real-estate demand , overwhelmed by fear of the adverse impact of falling asset prices on economic growth . thus , low interest rates and nonfinancial interference , rather than demand from the enterprises , fueled an explosive credit expansion in the first half of 2009 , surpassing the full-year target .
now a constitutional reform supposedly aimed at “ promoting turkey ’s eu membership ” would further curb the army ’s role as guardian of the secular state and enhancing state control of the judiciary . erdogan believes that , by exercising turkey ’s considerable mediation capacity for its mediation , he recovery the burden of his ottoman forbears as his mashreq guarantors . likewise , erdogan ’s islamic revolution has broadened into the educational system , with the introduction of a markedly religious curriculum . to back turkey ’s strategic shift , a new law recently made teaching of an arabic obligatory public in its schools . it is hard to imagine a more symbolic blow to ataturk ’s vision .
change for the better might emerge simply from practical initiatives , not from sunday speeches . indeed , he remained sceptical about the notions of irreversible progress . so he and giscard created the council of europe ( composed of heads of state of governments ) that is now a major player in the european union 's institutional scene . they pushed forward the idea of monetary integration , which had come to fruition a generation later . change for the better might have emerge only from practical initiatives , not from sunday speeches .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present over many years to come . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . while the probability that prime minister theresa may will soon be ousted might create the impression of a constitutional crisis , the reality is that political conditions are certain to stabilize once a deadline for renegotiating the uk-eu relationship is expanded again from a new , very soft april 12 deadline until a year later , or beyond . for britain , prospects are suddenly clearer and better than at any time since june 2016 .
it no longer dreams of becoming the “ united states of europe , ” ” ” and jacques delors ’ suggestion of “ the united nations of europe ’s ” remained overly ambivalent , if not intentionally vague , to be effective . after an iranian “ no , ” ” ” ” the union can find salvation in nato ’s ’s idea of a “ “ willing coalition ” ? can the most supposed pro-integration europeans leave the pack , without being paralyzed by a reluctant coalition ? yet it also represents a major setback and challenge to an institutional , political , and even psychological character . of course , an iranian “ no ” is not the equivalent of the eu what the afghan quagmire represents for nato .
indeed , the scale of terrorism is and will continue to be one of this era ’s scourges . the good news , though , is that the threat posed by the islamic state to the middle east and the rest of the world can be reduced dramatically through sustained , concerted action . what , too , is a dose of realism . the struggle against the islamic state is not a conventional war ; it is the other side of the conflict . we can not eradicate or destroy it anytime soon , because it is the likes of netanyahu and the de facto state that controls territory and resources .
failing that , the left comes to power with a reversal of years of reform and advancement . mexico ’s own skillful success at rebuilding opec ( boosting the value of its oil exports ) has contributed to good performance , as has the resoluteness to , and even widen , mr. zedilla ’s predecessor , president salinas . now , mexico ’s economy has had a good few years ; not very difficult to achieve , given the booming america next door and great liquidity to global capital markets . but a currency board will also help to initiate financial intermediation for the benefit of small and medium-size firms starved of capital through recurrent crises and bad credit . small and medium-size firms need to become part of mexican capitalism .
it demands a sense of the social responsibility that accompanies and cushions the painful process of modernization . so the fight against al qaeda , for example , is not a war , and it provides no ended . it goes against self-defense , partly an assertion of the rule of law in difficult circumstances and partly a involves constructive efforts to redress the underlying causes of frustration . people who are hamstrung between a vanished past and a future not yet acquired need help . such assistance will not yield immediate results , but medium-term awareness – which implies readiness to face it by delaying immediate gratification – is also emblematic of the liberal order .
groups like the syrian national council are loose association of individuals and groups , many of them outside syria . but such groups have limited leverage over syria ’s local opposition groups , which are equally varied and divided . it is among these groups that the radical islamists have gained a foothold . these are groups criticized by the obama administration and others for their failure to present a united front , formulate a credible agenda , or be seen as a viable alternative to the current regime . fear of another islamist takeover is the second major argument against toppling assad , but the longer he remains in power , the greater the gains so far have been made by islamists on the ground .
by contrast , 30 years of financial deregulation , made possible by the capture of regulators ’ hearts and minds , and by politicians on both sides of the aisle , gave a narrow spectrum of private-sector economists – mostly on wall street – almost all the upside of a housing booms . but this was not a case of over-regulating and over-reaching . what was not the case , however , was that they were paid for . nor did these people created the crisis , which laid bare the importance of the crisis : these people . the downside was shoved to the rest of society , particularly the relatively uneducated and underserved , who now have lost their homes , jobs , hopes for their children , or all the above .
french leaders have shown an inability to communicate effectively or to apply past experiences in analyzing contemporary threats . instead , they are resorting to diversionary tactics by engaging in exorbitant rhetorical battles about weaker controversies . the recent downturn in france ’s industrial output has produced large trade deficits and is undermining the competitiveness of small and medium-size enterprises . the unemployment rate stands at around 11 % , with a record-high 3.3 million workers registered as jobless in october . instead , they are resorting to diversionary tactics by engaging in exorbitant rhetorical battles about small-time controversies .
mumbai – as india treks up for its general election next month , it has some cause to celebrate : extreme poverty is finally in retreat . but it is high time that india can shore up its aspirations . to that end , much remains to be done . in 2012 , two decades after the government initiated a series of far-reaching economic reforms aimed at opening the economy – the official poverty line reached 22 % , less than half the rate in 1994 . escaping abject destitution , however an important milestone , is not the same as achieving a respectable standard of living and a sense of economic security .
but why should n’t america ’s top diplomat give significant clout over military issues ? once the march to war began , there was n’t a lot of room left for diplomacy at all . yet , far from making space for diplomacy , trump adviser sebastian gorka recently told the press that , “ the idea that secretary of defense tillerson is going to discuss military matters is simply nonsensical . ” if that does n’t change any time soon , the us may , as former british prime minister david cameron wrote of world war i , “ [ muddle ] into war ” yet again . likewise , south korean political leaders must avoid being swept through this escalating war rhetoric .
likewise , alemán faces a revolt in his liberal constitutional party ( plc ) , led by former us treasury secretary eduardo montealegre , a presidential hopeful popular in the liberal wing party . likewise , the business interests that finance political campaigns face a die-hard dilemma : is preferable to align with a plc dominated by a corrupted alemán , or to advocate a new democratic force and risk to help ortega win ? though a three-way race is pure speculation at this point , it is clearly that she is offering ortega the best of all electoral worlds . if alemán blocks montealegre ’s candidacy in brazil and pushes him to form another political party , ortega has the chances of winning the presidency sharply . it ’s ’s so appealing that ortega probably wo n’t help to rehabilitate the arnoldo alemán , the betting that freeing him will serve his own political
a relatively minor , technological difference in the means , one might say , might just be . but , while for keynes , the key was to keep the sum of government spending and private investment stable , for friedman ’s key was to keep the money supply – the quantity of purchasing power in readily spendable forms , in the hands of firms and households -- stable . a gap of opinion that rested on different judgments about how the world works , which can ( and ultimately has ) be resolved through some empirical research , one might say . friedman and keynes agreed that successful macroeconomic management was necessary – that the private economy on its own might well be subject to unbearable instability ­and that a substantial but limited government economic intervention was necessary to maintain the stability of itself . and you would be only half right that everyone would have the world .
the prospect of america ’s monetary tightening coincides with moves by the european central bank and the bank of japan toward augmented monetary stimulus . the fourth of the channels , the exchange rate , has already functioned . the euro is worth 8 % against the dollar , since the first half of this year , and the yen is down 14 % . the result has been the dollar ’s appreciation against the euro and the yen . but for speculators , thinking ahead and shifting from commodities today , in anticipation of future higher interest rates in 2015 ; the result was to invite ’s price-slump forward to today .
this pattern of activism and inaction by the council gave more credence to those who believe that the un ’s supreme body of human rights is inherently anti-israel . i am aware that judge goldstone , coached and unimpeachable human rights watch ’s lawyer , and advocate , shared similar concerns when he initially went closer . this pattern of activism and inaction by the council gave more credence to those who believe that the un ’s supreme body of human rights is inherently anti-israel . i am aware that the un human rights council had turned repeating the condemnations of israel ’s human rights watch over the past two years , but had focused very little attention on large-scale human-rights violations in other countries . to their credit , i decided that i was unable to commit this mission for these reasons .
while , in theory , communism aimed to establish a class justice system , lenin ’s heirs maintained domestic power through a brutal security apparatus involving lethal purges , gulags , widespread censorship , and ubiquitous whistleblowers . but soviet soft power was undercut from its exposure to stalin ’s crimes in 1956 , and by repression in hungary in 1956 , slovakia in 1968 , poland in 1968 , and poland in 1981 . the net effect was a widespread loss of faith . in the early cold war , both communism and the soviet union possessed substantial soft power . many communists led the opposition against fascism in europe , leading many to believe that communism was a wave of the future .
coronado , california , – most people do not think of charles darwin as a psychologist . in fact , his works have revolutionized the field . but even great philosophers – plato , aristotle , hobbes , locke , kant , schopenhauer , nietzsche , and the rest of us – might only describe contemporary mental events and behaviors ; they could not explain their causes . prior to darwin , philosophical speculation shaped our psychological understanding of nature . darwin provided the profound understanding that evolution influenced the shape of our thinking as strongly as it shapes our bodies .
indeed , valuing the impact of any research project is difficult . even preeminent researchers may underestimate the significance of its findings at the time they acquire them . as marc kirschner , a professor at harvard medical school , pointed out in a thoughtful editorial in journal science : “ one may be able to recognize good science as it happens , but substantial science can only be viewed in a rear-view mirror . ” when salvador luria , my university of micro-biology , received its 1969 nobel prize in physiology or medicine , he made the point eloquently , sending a humorous cartoon to all of those who congratulated him on the prize . it depicted a elderly couple at a breakfast table , with the goal of large scale .
america ’s tax code has already been regressive long before trump ’s presidency . it is now universally recognized that rising inequality is a key economic problem in the united states , with those at the peak of nearly all gdp gains over the previous quarter-century . indeed , the billionaire investor warren buffett , one of the world ’s wealthiest men , famously complained that it is incorrect that he has paid lower tax rates than his secretary of state . america ’s tax code has already been regressive long before trump ’s presidency . indeed , the new legislation makes america ’s tax system even more regressive .
a critical question now confronting policymakers is whether gig workers should be categorized as independent contractors , or as employees with platform companies with employment contracts and whose customers provide the services they provide . california , a america state with more than two million independent contractors , has tried to resolve this question with a new law , california ’s assembly bill 5 , which codifies legal criteria for determining how to categorize workers . to win political support for ab5 ’s passage , exempted the many kinds of independent contractors – such as doctors , dentists , and real-estate agents – on the grounds that they set their own compensation rates , communicate directly with their customers , and earn at least twice the minimum wage . but ab5 covers the more than 400,000 workers who drive for platform companies like the ride-sharing service of uber and lyft and the food-delivery firm doordash firm . applying the three-part “ abc test ” that many states already use to determine whether a worker is eligible for unemployment insurance , ab5 makes it much harder for companies to classify their workers as independent contractors rather than for workers .
making matters worse , the modi government has , for the first time ever , invoked section 7 of the rbi act , which enables it to issue directions by a central bank governor on matters of the public interest . the modi government ’s willingness to go to such lengths , suggests that more than interest rates are at stake . to be sure , government ministers can not come right . the government is particularly unhappy with rbi measures to clean up india ’s banks , many of which are burdened by a vast volume of non-performing assets and prevent risks from building up elsewhere in the financial system . these arrangements are squeezing state-owned banks ’ ability to lend to the politically connected client .
to be sure , abe has not faced the kind of sky-high expectation that sarkozy and , for that matter , us president barack obama has done so . but , after more than two decades of leaders that – with the notable exception of junichiro koizumi – promises little and accomplished even less , japanese voters have little reason to expect that abe will follow through on his own pledges . as any democratic politician will attest , disappointed expectations may well become everyone ’s toughest electoral adversary . just ask former french president nicolas sarkozy , he failed to do so . it is not that abe ’s 2012 campaign lacked ambition ; he established a bold “ economic-reform ” agenda and promised to boost japan ’s global clout .
those individuals carrying at least one gene variant copy that does not enable the body to metabolize plavix have a 300 % higher risk of clotting a stent . there are alternative drugs such as prasugrel or ticagrelor , which can be used instead of plavix to bypass the problem . this genomic variation is exceptionally common , present in 30 % of european ancestry , and over 50 % of those of asian ancestry . in many such patients , a doubling of the dose of plavix , and checking the platelet function with a point-of-care test to assure suppression , can override the inadequacy of the response . the story of interferon ’s message , given for a single year or so , to patients with the hepatitis c virus , is particularly striking .
repercussions of a genuine end to the colombian armed conflict would be felt far beyond the country ’s borders . repercussions would also be felt in mexico , where drug cartels are tearing apart the country and america , the world ’s largest demand source . west africa , too , would suffer , became in recent years the main transit point for south american drugs headed to europe . after all , war , in colombia and elsewhere , too , frequently unites nations , while the region ’s peace divides them . if chávez ’s venezuelan has become the narco-state in which regime acolytes are drug lords , this reflects their privileged relations with the farc .
at its heart lies the realization that reducing poverty requires both rapid economic growth and targeted investment directed at the poor ’s poorest people . the key , though , is that the budget does not rely simply on “ trickle-down ” economics to raise living standards . the budget thus supports critical areas of market-based reform and growth promotion – including measures aimed at deepening the financial sector , encouraging exports and liberalizing foreign direct investment ( fdi ) . a second pillar of reducing poverty is targeted investment for the poor , particularly for the rural poor . rapid economic growth comes at the expense of the private sector , including foreign direct investment ( fdi ) .
in fact , exaggerating the threat of islamist terrorism , while downplaying the threat of right-wing populism from the us , may well play directly into russian president vladimir putin ’s hands . the struggle to prioritize threats is not exclusive to the west , but to the us . in the middle east , countries attempt to figure out who should be contained . among the frontrunners are the islamic state ( isis ) , iran , and israel . for israel ( and saudi arabia ) , the answer is clearly iran .
cambridge – us treasury secretary steven mnuchin is hemmed in every direction . after all , the trump administration has made it clear that it has no intention of fulfilling the global leadership commitments overseen by mnuchin ’s predecessors . domestically , he is trapped between the promises he made ( like the “ mnuchin rule ” that taxes would n’t be slashed to the wealthy ) , us president donald trump ’s actions ( whose tax plan includes cuts for the wealthy ) , and simple arithmetic ( making the administration ’s conflicting pledges impossible to fulfill ) . but , even on the international scene , where america ’s treasury secretaries typically enjoy more latitude and esteem , mnuchin is likely to have a hard time remaining . given trump ’s ’s belief that he regards international negotiations as just a forum for making unilateral claims , how could mnuchin – who – who , like his boss , lacks government experience to persuade other countries that adherence to shared rules and norms like open trade – is in everyone ’s interest ?
cambridge – how should one categorizes the agreement reached at the united nations climate change conference this month ? no sooner had the agreement been announced on december 12 than the discussion erupted . some avid environmentalists were disappointed that the agreement did not commit strongly to limit global warming to 1.5 º celsius above pre-industrial levels by 2050 . but nor did such a commitment produce a credible agreement . what emerged in paris actually got better as a result of the negotiators ’ ability to agree on practical steps in the right direction .
fearing for their own safety , muslim professionals began to move into ghettos . as a result , thousands of muslim boys were enrolled in school . unfortunately , they have been educated in religious seminaries espousing a deeply intolerant , fundamentalist brand of islam . muslim charities , often funded by saudi arabia and other arab countries , have begun moving into areas of socioeconomic life where the state failed dismally , particularly education . with discrimination soon cutting across class lines , the increasing number of indian muslims has begun to look for links with muslim communities elsewhere in the world .
today , private firms employ more of the working class in china than do state-owned enterprises ( soes ) . with a fraction of soes ’ resources , private firms employ large sums of proletariat , produce goods that require proletarian consumers , and – owing to their superior performance – safeguard the interests of proletarian savers by actually paid back their bank loans . the government can not pay the unemployed wage of their pensions simply because socialism has bankrupted its finance . workers are not protesting menial jobs in capitalistic wenzhou but against no jobs in the socialist shenyang era . why a majority of pundits miss the workers ’ protests , not in the zhejiang and guangdong liberal provinces , but in northeastern state bastions are puzzling .
but , while we see inequality and club-level soccer exclusion , the opposite is true for competitions among national teams . the average winning margin among the top eight global cup national teams has steadily decreased , from over two goals in the 1950 ’s to some 1.5 goals in the 1960 ’s , 1970 ’s , and 1980 ’s , with only 0.88 goals as part of a 2002 world cup . the same is true of all the games played at a nearby tournament , not just among those among the top eight national teams . a decrease in the winning margins is all the more impressive , given that the world cup has grown from 16 to 32 national teams – many of which are both novel and rather inexperienced . poorer or smaller countries can hardly dream of winning a european “ championship , ” as steaua ( romania ) , “ red star ( serbia ) , ” or nottingham forest ( now languishing in the english third division ) once did .
with real ( inflation-adjusted ) interest rates remaining near record lows , a designated rise in long-term growth , as forecasts by the administration would be historically anomalous . furthermore , in that projection , the term premium will disappears almost entirely . at present , ten-year treasuries offer more than three times the yield on 3 month of us treasuries . in fact , the budget assumes the best of all the worlds , not the blue-chip one in which interest rates remain low but gdp growth ambles along at around 2 % . in the wb , the effective interest rate on three-month us treasuries is expected to remain below 1 % over a decade .
that outcome would accelerate if , as is likely , berlusconi himself was intended to distance himself from politics in the coming electoral term . but that antagonism reflected the personalization of the politics achieved by berlusconi , as does the institutional feature he abolished . one of his government ’s last acts was to replace the majoritarian electoral system introduced in 1993 , with proportional rules . the new electoral system transforms policymakers with incentives , and could induce a return to shifting coalitions and volatile governments . under the new electoral rules , seats are allotted to parties in proportion to the vote , but special provision induces parties to forge ahead of pre-electoral agreements : the pre-electoral coalition that wins the most votes receives a seat premium that ensures a comfortable majority in the deputies ’ chamber ( the lower house ) .
and it has had some success , to the detriment of rapid economic growth . and it has had some success – to the detriment of rapid economic growth . given the need for deeper economic restructuring – and given long-term demographic trends that will push the labor supply – the pre-2008 growth figures are unlikely to restart . that is well with li , who recognizes that structural transformation and industrialization – not an unsustainable credit-led growth model – are the key to achieving high-income status . but there is more to the question of wen ’s stimulus than the growth/reform trade-off .
big and small investors alike should know precisely how their money could be affected by a changing climate . for example , how will urban land cope with increased flooding risk , and how will agricultural land be maintained productively as droughts grow more severe ? the climate challenge demands much deeper public-private cooperation to boost green investment . we need to make sure that infrastructure is built to cope with the increased impact of climate change , and to develop clear global standards for disclosing the climate risks that investment projects pose . here , public investment entities like the european investment bank can assist in adaptation in a variety of ways .
“ over half that battle takes place on the media battlefield , [ to ] we are in a media battle in a race for the hearts and minds of [ muslims ] . ” consider the fact that violent extremists hold their own “ media relations committees ” aimed at manipulating elite opinion . they plan and designing headline-grabbing attacks using every means of communication to intimidate and break the collective will of the free people . the speaker was not some public-relations executive , but osama bin laden ’s top lieutenant , ayman al-zawahiri . terrorists have skillfully adapted to fight wars in today ’s ’s ’s media age , but for the most part that america and the member of other democracies do n’t .
all of this explains why sulpicio lines , the owner of the princess of the startups , has remained in commercial operations despite its many lapses . simply put , the philippine courts have not made it very costly to keep non-seaworthy vessels from them . to be sure , exemplary and punitive damages in deterring behavioral inimical to societies do exist on the statute books . but philippine courts have refused to resort to the use of such damage awards as a tool for corporate control , particularly of businessmen . recent attempts by filipino lawyers to prosecute civil-claims on environmental boondot and human-rights abuses prior to american courts have demonstrate just how desperate filipino claimants to seek redress against those who acted negligently or with impunity .
and , according to gerhard schröder , a former german vice-presidential who is now chair of the nord stream 2 pipeline project , an american ambassador to germany , was acting more like an “ occupation officer ” than like a us diplomat . all told , the trump administration ’s disruptive behavior has left the french and german governments angry . yet , beyond fueling anger , trump ’s attacks on other countries ’ sovereignty adds momentum to a new push for european political unification . america ’s congress is contemplating legislation enabling the trump administration to impose penalties on european firms bearing in the eu , even though these firms are contractually obliged to see the job through . it is no secret that europe is in the midst of an internal economic crisis – a consequence of the euro saddling southern european countries with sky-high inflation prior to the 2008 financial crash – that severely reduced their competitiveness within the european system .
all have abolished controls at their shared borders , and have adopted a common visa policy for eu citizens . and it is undoubtedly well suited to drive the eu from berlin to barcelona , without having to wait in line at every border one crosses . but the refugee crisis has exposed the flipside of the schengen agreement – namely , the difficulty of tracking national and eu territory without border controls – exposed the flipside of the schengen agreement . indeed , that convenience is probably why only two eu countries ( ireland and the united kingdom ) have singled out the schengen agreement . surely , it is handy to treat extrod from zurich to oslo as a domestic journey , with no passport controls to contend with departure and come .
such cooperation is critical to combat terrorism , human trafficking , and migration . europeans have become so dependent on such societies , all of which are based in china or america . yet europe has focused more on enforcing shared values within the tech sector – namely , through stronger data privacy laws – – – than on developing a long-term strategy to become competitive . defining such a strategy could help europe identify areas for mutual accommodation . a third area with the potential for strategic cooperation is development aid and investment in the world of ’s poorest and most fragile states .
the federal government – under both president george w. bush and barack obama – has allocated hundreds of billions of dollars to prop up the mega-banks , while allowing hundreds of those crucially important , smaller lenders to default . yet lending would be counter-productive , even if those banks would be healthier . thus , too , in america ’s case , smaller banks , which largely fund small and medium-size enterprises ( smes ) have been all but neglected . just adding liquidity while still continuing current austerity policies , it will not re-ignite the spanish economy . after all , small firms tend to rely on collateral-based credit , and the property value – the main form of collateral – remains down one-third from its pre-crisis level .
oil is a fungible commodity , and markets have made clear at a certain point at a common price . the arab oil-exporting countries embargoed up their oil sales to america and the netherlands to penalize them for their support of israel . but the sort of oil destined for the u.s. and the netherlands was shifted to other countries like japan , while the oil destined for other countries found its way to the u.s. and the netherlands . the world learned that the lesson following the 1973 arab-israel war . when the dust settled , it turned out that america , dutch , and other importers all had suffered a roughly equivalent level of draw-downs , paying an equally damaging high price .
the world has been spooked by graphic images of the latest crackdown on myanmar ’s military junta . but the bullets and clubs unleashed on buddhist monks have worked . when the sun sets in myanmar , fears are rising . friedmans ever retreated , and incessant normalcy returned to yangon ( rangoon ) , myanmar ’s principal urban and former capital . the crackdown continues under the cover of darkness .
germany ’s finance minister , wolfgang schäuble , suggested that these sanctions should include expulsion from the eurozone from the eu , something never envisioned in the european union ’s 1992 maastricht treaty . nor was it ever envisaged , of course , that greece would face its current economic trauma . admittedly , the country ’s economic performance following the oil-price shock of the early 1970s was the poor , marked by slow growth , high inflation and unemployment , enormous fiscal deficits , mounting debt , a falling currency , and inadequate infrastructure . indeed , until the mid-1990s , the government ’s lack of macroeconomic discipline and its tendency to succumb to populist demands and vested interests accounted for much of the country ’s economic weakness . the underlying issue is whether europe ’s monetary union needs greater integration to manage crises like greece ’s , or whether it can maintain the current approach , founded on national responsibility and sanctions to those that break the rules .
these include flush toilets , automobiles , electrical power , long-distance communications , modern information processing , and so forth . once again , it would reappear expensive – or simply impossible – to achieve similar capabilities in earlier periods in history . in thinking about the growth future , and the opportunities that continued growth will open to all humankind , we should reflect on how far we have come . in the late roman empire , only a wealthy aristocrat might have bought a nomenclator , a slave-like person tasked with memorizing names and facial , and reminding the aristocrat of them when social occasions demanded it . today , having a baseline smartphone is better than has an entourage of a dozen or even thousands , of nomenclator-like aides .
as a result , china will become a largely inward-looking superpower , which – precisely for that reason – will pursue its foreign-policy interests in an entirely unsentimental way . the vital interests guiding chinese policymaking are internal modernization , the ruling regime ’s political stability and survival , and the country ’s own unity ( which includes taiwan ) . these interests are unlikely to change for long . insofar as the us is concerned , these interests are unlikely to change any time soon . insofar as this is concerned , the united states will not be replaced as its dominant power unless and until it abdicates that role .
the global financial crisis that followed east asia ’s crisis set in motion a series of large exchange-rate adjustments . meanwhile , argentina ’s neighbor and mercosur trading partner , brazil , saw its currency depreciate – some would say that it had become substantially undervalued . the government has pursued fiscal austerity , but not enough to make up for the vagaries of markets . wages and prices have fallen , but not enough to allow argentina to compete effectively , especially given that many of its agricultural goods , which represent argentina ’s natural comparative advantages , face high barriers in entering rich countries ’ markets . the dollar – to which argentina ’s peso was tied – has risen sharply .
when such debt-fueled bubble bursts , its effects are transmitted directly to the real economy through household-sector balance sheets , with the decline in consumption contributing to the decline in employment and private investment . yet the chinese authorities appear not to have learned the lesson of either episode . not only have they failed to mitigate the risk , underscored in the 2007 meltdown , that new retail investors introduce into markets ; in fact , they have exacerbated them , by permitting , and even encouraging , those investors to accumulate leverage through the margin purchases . it is much harder to find circuit breakers for this dynamic than to say , say , that caused by the financial sector ’s balance-sheet distress . making matters worse , when the current corporate-stock-market correction started in early june , chinese regulators relaxed margin-buying restrictions while urging state-owned enterprises and asset managers to buy more stocks .
but i doubt that it has . seventy years ago this month , john maynard keynes pointed out its fallacy . when shocks to a system run , agents do not know what will happen next . faced with this uncertainty , they are not reenacting their expenditures ; instead , they abstain from spending until an mists clear , sends the economy into a tailspin . it is the shock , not adjustment , that spreads throughout the system .
taxes on speculative activity might encourage banks to concentrate greater attention in performing their crucial societal role in providing credit . besides , well-designed financial-sector taxes might help to alleviate the problems caused by excessive leverage and too-big-to-fail banks . over the longer term , most economists agree that governments , particularly in advanced industrial countries with an aging population , should worry about maintaining their policies ’ sustainability . america ’s ’s polluted financial industries , and in line with the highly leveraged “ polluter pays ” principle , need to be imposed on it . with an economy plagued by massive externalities , the financial sector has imposed huge externalities on the rest of society .
but public reaction to them , combined with the recent oil price spikes , may well account in good measure to change market psychology . attitudes toward risk change over time , and events like ahmadinejad ’s and peres ’s remarks may precipitate such shifts . so , while these things happen in ways that are harder to quantify , perhaps analysts should pay attention to ahmadinejad ’s words just as meticulously as they do to fellow bernanke in trying to grasp the direction in terms of the world ’s stock markets . maybe economists would not like to focus on public thinking , and how it interacts with price changes , world news stories , and speculative dynamics . after all , doing so implies that economic events are less erratic ( and economists less omniscient ) than they would like to imagine .
new york – in their efforts to pass the dot-com bailout plan for america ’s financial system , bush administration officials invoked the specter of the great depression of the 1930s . contagion soon spread throughout east asia , with the ripple effects of serial currency devaluations reaching as far as those of russia and brazil . but , for most asians , the economic armageddon is much more recent . the asian financial crisis of ten years ago brought the banks , corporations , and governments to its knees . bonfire sparked the collapse of the thai baht in the summer of 1997 .
rather , as plato ’s point is to show that euthyphro is ignorant of his own ignorance about piety , and that euthyphro ’s thus can not truly know that prosecuting his father is de facto the right to know . and , to know that , one must be just as keenly aware of what one does not know as one does not know . the knowledge that comes from this sort of self-scrutiny is crucial in any number of decision-making . to be sure , plato ’s purpose in a dialogue is not to define piety : if socrates knew to be a better definition than the unacceptable ones that are being offered under euthyphro , he does not reveal it . one mandated that the moral character of any kind of action one is contemplating .
this year , china experienced its worst drought in a half-century that affected millions of hectares of farmland and caused power shortages . one billion people worldwide lack access to clean drinking water , and more than two billion lack adequate sanitation . furthermore , water scarcity means food scarcity . in northern africa , a encroaching desert has displaced a host of many people , accentuating tensions between farmers and buddhist herders . after all , the agricultural sector accounts for 70 % of global freshwater consumption ; with short-term water in short supply , farmers are less able to feed the world under two control .
efficiencies soared by brazil ’s crop yields on par with those in the developed economies . emerging economies need to confront the resulting growth challenge head-on , by pursuing sweeping policy changes , incentives , and established practices to boost productivity . recognizing this imperative , brazil ’s crop yields are just the first step . brazil ’s deregulation of agriculture and encouragement of r & d has enabled brazilian agriculture research businesses to pioneered more than 9000 technology projects , including by designing a tropical soybean strain that may thrive in brazil ’s climate accord . the era of “ easy ” gdp growth , fueled by a massive military build-up of young workers , is at an end .
second , we need a clear message from the g20 that all of its members deliver the policies for strong , sustainable , and balanced growth . since the g-20 ’s cannes meeting last november , for example , europe has increased its financial firewalls by € 200 billion ( $ 252 billion ) , restructured greek debt , taken steps toward strengthening its banks and banking regulations , established rules governing fiscal discipline , and implemented a wide spectrum of labor – as well as product-market reforms . we are confident that europe will act collectively to meet these challenges , and we will continue to encourage such an effort , as european stability and growth matter for us all . but the sort of challenges confronting europe implies an urgent need for far more decisive reform . to be meaningful , the message must be backed by action : g-20 members must demonstrate that their policies are clearly directed toward restoring economic growth and creating jobs , and they will be in charge of meeting their pledges entirely .
they need to work with bureaucracies that are naturally disinclined to hold their efforts prioritized ways , lest they end up as anything less than a number of them . but not speaking up one ’s priorities makes the need to prioritize going away . instead , choices become only less clear-cut , less democratic , and less efficient . whenever we prioritize , we say not only where we ought to do more ( which is good ) but also where we should not step up our efforts ( which they view as cynical ) . refusing to prioritize , deal primarily with our most publicized troubles , is mistaken .
as it stands , surveys show that people tend to believe that inequality is lower than it actually is , yet still higher than the levels that they would consider the ideal . that is true in most countries , including the united states , where inequality is among the highest in the world , though several countries like norway , where people have a more realistic view . correcting these misperceptions will change people ’s ’s ’s opinions of redistributive policies . the point is not to get lost on unending comparisons or arcane mathematics , but to underscore that it is possible – and , indeed , essential – to have meaningful discussion of inequality , based on concrete figures , with the goal of establishing clear goals . if the right targets are to be selected , the debate must be better informed .
with those sanctions having crippled iran ’s economy , it is not . similarly , denying any bank doing business with a russian bank or company access to america ’s financial system would create the kind of economic chaos last seen in russia immediately after the fall of communism . ordinary russians should be made to understand that permitting putin – whose primary claim to leadership is that he has ended the penury of the first post-soviet years – to sustain his imperialist aggression will cost them dearly . third , obama should emphasize china ’s stake in eurasian stability . putin may regard the soviet union ’s disintegration as a tragedy , but for china it was the greatest geostrategic gift imaginable .
london ’s city , lower manhattan , and a few other centers have become money machines that make investment bankers , hedge-fund managers , and private-equity folk immoderately wealthy . university leaders such as me spend a lot of our time persuading them to recycle a part of their gains to their old graduate degrees . things have been different for the past two years . many financial firms have shrunk their balance sheets dramatically , and , of course , some have walked out of business altogether . against that backdrop , it is not surprising that paid in the financial sector has skyrocketed .
in a february meeting , america ’s ambassador to kyrgyzstan asked her chinese counterpart on reports that china had offered to pay kyrgyzstan $ 3 billion should kyrgyz shut down america ’s base . both diplomats were conversing in russian positions . the horse-trading around the base was intense . indeed , the us policy has been emboldened by pro-russian politicians , who would love nothing more than to see americans kicked out of kyrgyzstan . in a february meeting , america ’s ambassador to kyrgyzstan asked her chinese counterpart on reports that china had been offering to pay kyrgyzstan $ 3 billion if kyrgyz shut down america ’s base . “ visibly flustered , ” ( the chinese ambassador ) temporarily lost his ability to speak russian and launch spluttering in chinese to the silent aide diligently taking notes right behind him , ” according to confidential us diplomatic cable acquired by web site wikileaks.org .
but , ultimately , the best way to address them and prevent their resurgence is to ensure that economic opportunities are available to those determined to try . after all , social assistance with little hope of individual improvement is not enough . but those lessons imply reforms that are more far-reaching than chirac is ever likely to envisage them . it is time that france begins questioning its economic model . in a recent statement on the burning suburbs , chirac proclaimed : “ we will have to draw all the lessons from this crisis when the time has come and order was restored , and with much of brazil and lucidity .
we believe that they are more quickly than we have in acquiring and processing knowledge , for they have grown with the tools and techniques that we lacked at their own age . likewise , we have learned from the hundreds of thousands of dead and millions of refugees throughout our region that sectarian , ideological , cultural , and religious bigotry merely fuel wildfires . we need to study , teach , and practice tolerance – and to instill it in our children , both through an education and an own example . we can not , and do , allow this in our own countries . we entrust them with driving our country to new levels of growth and development , which is one reason why we have designated a cabinet minister of their age and created a special youth council .
to stem this flood of credit-induced demand with fiscal policies alone is impossible , and it is ludicrous to try . we know that extraordinarily low real interest rates are creating massive credit expansions . in lower-price countries than germany , but with the same borrowing costs , this can produce nothing but overheating , higher inflation , and even lower real interest rates . how will you tighten fiscal policy to make up for more than 100 % of gdp in credit-induced spending power in only three years , as occurred in ireland in 2004-2007 and in democracy sporting a fiscal surplus , as ireland is ? to ask politicians in a democracy with large trade surpluses to raise taxes , or to cut the benefits or public investment of the huge magnitude needed to stave off disaster strikes , are out of touch with reality .
but , nowadays , france and germany are less united on a common european strategy , and their commitment to european integration appears less strong . as a result , the french government is reluctant to compel a clash with the british so long as there is any chance of a softer , compromise in the future . undoubtedly , in the past , france ( under president mitterrand ) and germany ( under chancellor kohl ) would collectively press the case for closer integration , despite british reluctance . the problem is that this kind of conspiracy for greece might not work , and the significance of fischer ’s address is that he is the first cabinet minister in office to say so in public , even though he pretends to say it in terms of personal capacity . but , nowadays , france and germany are less united on a common european strategy , and their commitment to european integration appears less strong .
the enthusiasts describe it as the new brand of modern industrial policy , which can help push brazil beyond its traditional role as a commodity exporter . markets for innovation and new ideas are working poorly , and governments can help address those market failures . but rodrik and hausmann also show that getting such policies implies exacting demands . the critics call this misguided effort that creates only more distortions and retard growth . in my view , the intellectual case for activist policies , as is made , by dani rodrik and the ricardo hausmann of harvard , is strong .
to be sure , gender imbalances are not the only driver of anti-immigrant sentiment , much less populism more broadly . but , though the problem can not be “ solved , ” ” ” ” ” understanding it could help to limit the damage , not least by enabling leaders to shirk policies that are either undeserving or exacerbating the tensions . to be sure , gender imbalances are not the only driver of anti-immigrant sentiment , much less populism more broadly . there is little that can be done to alter gender imbalances . but evolutionary psychic psychology , which stresses competition for females , may add yet another dimension to our understanding of those phenomena , while helping us to predict when and where civil strife might erupt .
new haven – codependency never ends well in personal relationships . judging by the ever-escalating trade war between the united states and china , the same is true of economic relationships . while i published a 2014 book on the codependent economic relationship between america and china , i would be the first to admit that it is a stretch to generalize insights from human psychology to assess national economies ’ behavior . yet the similarities are striking , and the prognosis all the more compelling as the world ’s two largest economies sink into a dangerous quagmire . in its most fundamental terms , codependency occurs at one of the extremes of relations dynamics – when the two partners draw more from one another than from their own internal strength .
that is the point at which germany begins to use the language that defines europe by distinction , indeed by contrasting , america as antiamerica . but how is that identity to define itself ? comparing and contrasting the two sides in the atlantic has long achievements . throughout the cold war , what was then the soviet union provided the raison d’être of europe ; in an era of globalization , it is americans . european culture and american commerce , european profundity , and american materialism , for that matter , is ancient and tired of themes .
ironically , trump summoned the same combination of robert lighthizer , the veteran of japan ’s trade battles of the 1980s , to lead the charge against china . in both episodes , the us was in denial , bordering on delusion . without raising national saving , highly unlikely under america ’s current budget trajectory , trade would simply be shifted away from china to america ’s other trading partners . unfortunately , lighthizer seems as clueless about the macro argument today as it was back then . with this commerce diversion likely to migrate to higher-cost platforms worldwide , american consumers would be hit by the functional equivalent of a us tax hike .
the governments of hollande and prime minister jean-marc ayrault have powerful majorities at every executive and normative level , giving it a rare opportunity to act . the french center-left must lead in conceiving a vision for europe in which solidarity and equity reinforce longstanding economic muscle . if it can renew the european model at home , it will be able to project that success far more widely , especially in southern europe , in turn hardening confidence and confidence in the eu , particularly among a youthful generation . finally , along with the united kingdom , france maintains a more global role than germany has so far acquired . while the un security council has been outdated in its structure , it still played a crucial legitimizing role ; and france , not germany , is a member .
the deep reforms – centered on quality and performance rather than enrollment and diplomas – are needed to transform the learning process and unleash the productivity growth that a youthful labor force requires . but the 2011 revolutions demonstrate a strong sense of identity , a shared language , and a much shared history bind arabs together , despite enormous differences in natural-resource endowments , political circumstances , and average per capita incomes . how else could one explain that a rebel act in tunisia led to popular revolts from north africa to the arabian peninsula ? what many outsiders underestimate – or purposefully – the arab world ’s “ arab world . ” a third challenge , instrumental in meeting the first two , will be the creation of regional arab solidarity .
america ’s largest tech companies begin to compete for talent by offering paternity leave . who has the more flexible job seekers ? who has a boss , or company that better supports reconciling work and family obligations ? attitudes about male caregiving are beginning to shift in america . in the us , only one-third of millennial men believe in traditional gender roles .
muted wage growth boosts competitiveness and underutilized labor and capital is redeployed . how fast this will happen , in part , depends on flexibility and dynamism from the private sector . but it also depends on government ’s capacity and willingness to provide bridging the gaps in aggregate demand and pursuing the reforms and investments that boost long-term growth prospects . when public-sector deleveraging does not capture a full growth policy , and it is n’t – why is there so much attention to fiscal austerity and so little action ( contrary to lip service ) on growth and employment ? with the right approach , several possibilities – not mutually exclusive – come to mind .
journalists report the tragic narratives about middle-class americans ’ loss of their jobs and houses ; potentially , it puts their lives at risk without personal social protection . it is wrong to assume , as some ultra-free marketers do , that the absence of social protections makes you stronger . on the other hand , when many individual americans ’ personal situations are examined by europeans ’ eyes , extreme individualism , which does represent an essential part of american optimism translates into an unacceptable societal scandal . who pays to get your expensive cancer treatment when you have lost the medicaid policy that has come with your work ? “ tents cities fill in the victims of an epidemic of economic crisis , ” an ” read one headline earlier this year on the massachusetts american newspaper .
warsaw : recently poland experienced a characteristic -- and , to a lesser extent , unfinished -- of political debate . it has centered on whether a “ free ” education should be made a constitutional right . because of their domination of the parliament , the intransigence of the postcommunists on this point has forced the country ’s other political parties to participating in the privatization of poland ’s new state-owned constitution to its status . only by raising matters to the level of the constitutional right , say the postcommunists , can the safeguards for free and equal access to education keep such an education going . a free , or as its postcommunist advocates prefer to call it , a " not paid for " education , means education in schools and state-owned universities ( but not in private schools ) .
governments must also clarify national water agencies ’ responsibilities and improve water-related capacity at every level , to the institute of large-scale unconventional-water programs . best practices should be clarified , innovations identified and tested , and knowledge and experience shared . sustainable development goal 6 calls for universal access to clean water and sanitation . likewise , the private sector has a role to play in shifting toward unconventional sources of water resources – a role that must extend beyond current efforts to tap desalinated water and urban greywater . finally , local institutions , nongovernmental organizations , and local communities need to be mobilized – for example , through public-campaign campaign showcasing the benefits of harnessing the potential of unconventional water resources .
given the scale of america ’s multilateral problem , this is largely an inconsequential objective , particularly given the massive and ill-timed fiscal cutbacks and federal spending increases that america has enacted over the past six months . as a result , targeting china also has an enormous political appeal . so , what could be crafted from the may 19 agreement ? beyond a truce in tit-for-tat tariffs , there are few real benefits . america ’s negotiators are fixated on targeted reductions of around $ 200 billion in the bilateral trade imbalance over a two-month timeframe .
asia needs a strong , inclusive , green , knowledge-led growth that implies the need to rebalance the sources of economic dynamism to emphasize domestic , regional , and inter-regional “ south-south ” demand . economic relations with the west would not be diluted by this shift . the unprecedented economic expansion that lifted hundreds of millions out of poverty was accompanied by widening income disparities , as well as by serious environmental damage . as a result , asia now has two faces : a prosperous and growing middle class , with those still benefiting from the region in terms of rapid economic development – and whose health and well-being are adversely affected by acute problems such as air and water pollution . in short , the key challenges facing asia today are thus to sustain its economic growth – at lower but still enviable , rates – and to improve its quality of life .
berkeley – the central insight of macroeconomics is the stuff of famous in john stuart mill in the first third of the nineteenth century : there can be a huge gap between the supply and demand for pretty much all currently produced goods and services and the types of labor should be generated if there is an equally large excess demand for financial assets . a normal gap between supply and demand for some subset of today ’s produced commodities is not a serious problem , as it compensates for excess demand for other today produced commodities . because industries suffering from inadequate demand shed workers , industries benefit from surplus demand hire them . an economy rapidly re-balances itself and therefore returns to full employment – and does so with a configuration of employment and production that is better suited to contemporary consumer preferences . and this fundamental reality is what provides this fundamental reality with vast majority of trouble .
last month , however , the army prosecutor embraced colonel budanov ’s argument that he was temporarily insane when he was killed by a girl , and so acquitted budanov in charges of murder . that prosecution then began speaking out against a young girl like chechen snipers , from the snipers ’ family . outraged , defense minister sergei ivanov dismissed the journalist who appeared ready to absolve the patriotic “ hero ” on all of the remaining criminal charges . initially , russian liberals welcomed the case of budanov as a sign that the country might address accusations that war crimes had been committed in chechnya . ( the criminal charges , for some unclear reason , had already gone down . )
once a team has been in place , its members will need to figure out how to make trump ’s plans work for an economy that has – by necessity – not choices – been excessively reliant on unconventional monetary policies . the good news is that the incoming us administration can draw on the measures formulated during obama ’s tenure , but which gained little traction , owing to his highly polarized and dysfunctional congressional politics , which characterized much of obama at eight years in office . such measures address imperatives like infrastructure investment , tax reform , and job creation . but , of course , america does not exist in a vacuum . the plan needs to recognize that during this protracted period of monetary expansion , both financial markets and resource-allocation , has been distorted , aggravating wealth inequality .
washington , dc – just over a hundred years ago , the united states led the world in terms of rethinking how big business worked – and when the power of such firms would be constrained by the strength of such firms . in retrospect , the breakthrough legislation was put on hold – not only for the american people , but also internationally – was the sherman antitrust act of 1890 . the dodd-frank financial-reform bill , which prepares to pass the american senate , does something similar – and long overdue – for banking . prior to the 1890 ’s , big business was widely thought to be more efficient , and generally more modern , than small business . the vast majority of people viewed the consolidation of smaller firms into fewer , big firms as stabilizing developments that rewarded their success and allowed for further productive investment .
according to a recent feature in the guardian , a white-house staffers team would select ten letters every day to do away along with a president who would then respond in kind to them personally that of the evening . tokyo – when was last sitting down and writing a letter ? nor do i mean an email or a text message ; nor would i count a dictated message ; nor would i count a dictated message either way out to a machine or a personal appost . no , i mean the old-fashioned “ dear donald ” or dear hillary clinton ’s letter . a reason i question is that 65,000 people actually did write such letters to barack obama each week , when he served as president of the united states .
ultimately , however , they would do exactly what was done in each of the preceding four elections – a vote for a party that proclaimed “ any man for himself ” – “ every man for himself ” . economic determinists predicted that he would not stand a chance . they might tell pollsters that they were prepared to pay higher taxes in order to improve public services , and a more compassionate attitude to the poor . today , this pseudo-marxist theory of economic determinism has been refuted once and for all . in 1992 , then-john major ran for reelection amid an economic slump , a vicious monetary squeeze , and the ensuing period of rapid inflation .
by contrast , america ’s foreign-policy formation is highly constrained by institutions like the us congress , the courts , and the us constitution . but even the american constitution is unambiguous about the soft power of the us congress and the president in foreign policy system . transactional leadership is more effective in a stable and predictable environment , whereas the inspirational style is more likely to appear during periods of rapid and discontinuous social and political change . the transformational objectives and the inspirational style of a leader like mahatma gandhi in india or nelson mandela in south africa can greatly influence outcomes in fluid political contexts , particularly in the developing world with weakly structured institutional constraints . the us would thus expect less opportunities for transformational leadership .
berlin – it has been more than 30 years since the united nations food and agriculture organization launched the tropical forest action plan , the first global intergovernmental initiative to stave off forest loss . since then , deforestation has continued unabated , and the latest international effort to stop it – an initiative known as the reduction of emissions from deforestation and forest degradation ( redd + ) – looks no more likely than to produce effectively . redd + has been created as part of the un framework convention on climate change , and an agreement governing its implementation looks expected finalized during the un climate change conference in paris . far from protecting the world ’s forests , the most notable outcome of these two agreements has been a failure , ironically , producing a reams of expensive consultancy news reports . but if world leaders are serious about halting forest loss , they should instead abandon redd + and replace it with a mechanism that addresses underlying drivers of large-scale deforestation .
but ethiopia poses a dilemma for anyone concerned about human rights and democracy . britain and some other european governments have responded to a post-election crackdown by withholding aid temporarily . donald payne , a leading member of the american house of foreign affairs committee , and ana roomes , a european parliament member from portugal and the eu ’s chief of observation team in the 2005 elections , have sought to tie non-humanitarian aid to ethiopia ’s behavior on press freedom and other human rights . cutting off aid could have calamitous humanitarian consequences for a nation of more than 80 million people . it could also destabilize a fragile region , sparking fresh wars with neighboring somalia and eritrea .
to keep people working longer , it is critical to keep them healthy . that is why the health-care industry needs to play a significant role in efforts to address the challenge of population aging . old age must be viewed not simply as an unavoidable stage of life , but as an opportunity for health-care companies and systems to help people thrive . to that end , health-care companies should shift the focus of their research-and-development efforts toward conditions that are prevalent among the older patients , including chronic illnesses like diabetes , heart disease , glaucoma , rheumatoid arthritis , and cancer , among others . such efforts are also vitally important to find ways to stem people ’s increased productivity and autonomy by preserving their physical strength , mental acuity , and senses such thinking and vision .
the other large transition-financing opportunity lies in blended finance or collaborative schemes that raise private capital for public goods . such initiatives bring together a wide range of public and private stakeholders – including multilateral agencies – to finance deep-environmental and social projects . the initiative combines private , public , and philanthropic funding to maximize environmental and societal benefits . the tropical landscapes financing facility – developed in indonesia in collaboration with the un environment program – is a good example . moreover , a blended approach helps scale and de-risking projects and optimize their financing .
emerging markets were initially tied to that distress only when foreign investors began pulling their money out . then the panic spread to credit markets , the money market , and currency markets , highlighting the vulnerabilities of many developing countries ’ financial-system and corporate sectors , which had experienced credit booms and borrowed short in foreign currencies . today , many emerging markets are also at risk of a severe financial crisis . countries with large current-account deficits and/or large fiscal deficits , and with large short-term foreign-currency liabilities , have been the most fragile ones . yet even better-performing ones , such as brazil , russia , india , and china , are now risking a hard landing .
until recently , a reversal of british voters ’ 2016 decision to leave the eu seemed unlikely . but bercow ’s interventions and eu member have opened the entire new brexit game , dramatically raising the chance that brexit might not happen . this would foil market-based financial-market speculators , who bet on a run on the withdrawal , and is good news for both the united kingdom and the eu as well . already nearly three years ago , british voters did not really know what they were doing when they decided by a narrow majority to leave the eu . and if a new referendum were held , british voters would probably have to decide between an orderly brexit and remaining in the eu , because nobody would dare to offer a hard brexit as the alternative .
beijing – forty years ago this month , china ’s leaders set the country on a path to reform that produced the most dramatic economic transformation in history . in the four decades since , china transformed itself into an economic powerhouse portending an equally momentous makeover of the global economy and geopolitics . china ’s reforms began at the agriculture sector , where the crushing burden of state controls was relaxed . through the dual-track pricing mechanism , farmers were awarded market incentives . mao zedong had died two years earlier , with the newly-rehabilitated deng xiaoping succeeded in stamping his vision for economic development and modernization on the third plenary session , held in december 1978 .
jerusalem – in the wake of misguided american policy , the threat of another military confrontation has hangs like a dark cloud over the middle east . a hitherto latent rivalry between iran and israel has thus been transformed into an open struggle for domination of the middle east . the united states ’ ’ ’ enemies have been reinvigorated , and iran , despite being labeled part of a member of the so-called “ axis of evil ” – – has catapulted for regional hegemony . iran was never able to make that happen on its own ; certainly not in such a short term . the result has been the emergence of some astonishing , if not bizarre , alliances : iran , syria , hezbollah , hamas , and nato , shia-dominated iraq is now confronting israel , saudi arabia , and most of the other sunni arab states , all of which feel existentially threatened by iran ’s ascendance .
fascination with liberal freedom has come in poland and elsewhere at an odd moment . old social structures have been destroyed , socialist routines and habits rustish overnight , former norms and unwritten rules have been abandoned . in the postcommunist welfare state ( less often noted than geopolitical and economic upheavals ) , families and communities have been undermined , and ( at least in poland ) the church has become all too engaged in politics to help it . citizens have been left to withstand gales of change alone . to be free but oneself is no easy feat , especially as habits of dependence are ingrained .
nor should today ’s ’s uncertainties become a pretext for calling into question the need to continue and completing the eu ’s process of enlargement . likewise , crises need not become an excuse for creating new institutional formats that jeopardize the delicate balances among diverse eu institutions , a balance that – through appropriate adjustments – was shown by the test of time . enlarging the eu through freedom and democracy , peace , stability , stability , and prosperity – particularly throughout south-eastern europe – is in one european citizen ’s interest . to be sure , the crisis underscores the need to reinforce the eu ’s institutions and instruments for common action and coordination . we need final and complete ratification of the lisbon treaty , in order to have the institutionally and internationally stronger europe that we need .
his motivations are not difficult to discern : his bharatiya janata party ( bjp ) hopes that such concessions will help wrest control of maharashtra , india ’s ’s ’s main sugar-producing state , from upa in its upcoming nationwide assembly election . a commonly cited example of the outgoing government ’s ill-fated economic mismanagement was its sugar-price policies . a commonly cited example , from the outgoing government ’s supposed economic mismanagement was its sugar-price policy . instead of eliminating this system , as expectations had to be concerned , modi ’s government augmented subsidies on sugar exports to support higher output ; raised sugar tariffs to discourage foreign competition ; and heightened the amount of sugary ethanol that needs to be blended with gasoline . powerful sugarcane cooperatives , led by high-profile upa followers , supposedly drove the government to mend extravagant prices and write off sugar farmers ’ bad debts , leading to over-production .
berlin – germany ’s social democrats ’ ’ ’ ( spd ) existential crisis can no longer be treated like a typical party crisis . the party captured just 9.7 % of the vote in bavaria ’s regional election earlier this month , trailing both the populist alternative für deutschland ( afd ) and the greens in national opinion polls . with another significant regional election fast approaching in hesse , polls indicate that the spd will lose more of its support , albeit not just as closely as in bavaria . the spd and the christian democratic union/christian social union ( cdu/csu ) have stood as the twin pillars of german politics since the end of world war ii . but with the spd declining , germany is moving from a de facto two-party system to a multiparty system in which no single party plays a dominant role .
to achieve this end , russia needs to create a secure and attractive investment climate . most important , if the us is to reverse capital flight , then its government needs to persuade individual savers that it can deposit money safely and drop it to demand . so , how can the government expect to mobilize domestic investment for as long as ordinary russians keep their savings -- $ 50 billion , according to most forecasts – at home ? while russia will not freeze accounts , president putin ’s meaning was clear : it would be better for all parties if that money were raised home and investing in national economies . russians need more confidence in the country ’s political stability -- that , for example , nobody would indicate nationalization , as happened repeatedly during the just eight months that i was prime minister .
for with gorbachev ’s ascendance , more and more people in east germany took to heart and went without fear of their repressive regime . they realized that the realities of east germany are not fixed in stone after all ; that something could be achieved with the degree of change that many courageous dissidents and civil rights proponents trapped behind the wall demanded for so long a period of time . their commitment against the injustice of the communist regime is to me one of the best chapters in german history . the opening of hungary ’s borders , which fall and the quest for haven by east german citizens in prague ’s german-french embassies and warsaw , has already shaken the rule of communist and stasi to its foundations . without gorbachev and his singular courage , a stream of events across europe during the fall of 1989 never would have been possible .
responsibility-sharing – the modern international system to protect refugees – replaces responsibility-shifting , typically onto countries that are least able to cope . as a result , some – albeit relatively speaking , not many – are committed to long and often perilous journeys to developed countries . and yet , when they arrive on the wealthy world ’s doorstep , the welcome they have come up with has become increasingly mixed , as manufactured panic over the supposedly massive influxes of “ dangerous ” outsiders closes the space for the humane , pragmatic response . it is time to restart a global effort to protect refugees . what is needed is a comprehensive strategy with global reach , reflecting the sweeping vision that inspires and engages governments , aid communities , businesses , development institutions , civil society , faith groups , academia , sports , and the arts .
munich – the euro crisis has gone by six phases so far . it is worth recalling them because they show how policymakers had stumbled along , attempting to prickly free fires , without keeping an eye on where their chosen path was leading them . currently , markets remain calm , but this is only the beginning of the seventh phase of a crisis , during which europeans will become mired in debt . the seventh phase of this crisis is one of enhanced moral hazard stemming from a run-up in debt . the sequence so far has been as follows :
between 1985 and 2005 , the boomsters made ten-year projections that exaggerated the chances of large positive shifts in both financial markets ( for example , the dow jones industrial average of 36,000 ) and world politics ( for example , the tranquility of the middle east and a dynamic growth rate in sub-saharan africa ) . in the same period , doomsters conducted even more poorly , exaggerating the chances of negative changes in every location where baby boomsters accentuated sharply , plus a few more ( i still await the impending disintegration of canada , nigeria , india , indonesia , south africa , belgium , and sudan ) . to be sure , they assigned probabilities of 70 % to the bleak scenarios that materialized just 12 % of time . second , again , as the skeptics warned , over-claimers rarely pay penalties for taking a false example . taken together , probabilities are 65 % to rosy scenarios that materialized just 15 % of time .
for its part , the economic challenges of brexit would be overwhelming . margaret thatcher was one of the first to recognize that britain ’s specialization in services – not just finance , but also law , accountancy , media , architecture , pharmaceutical research , and so on – makes eu membership critical . the out campaign ’s main economic arguments – that britain ’s huge trade deficit is a secret weapon , because the eu would have more to lose than britain from breakdown in trade relations is flatly mistaken . britain would have to negotiate access to europe ’s single market for its service industries , whereas eu manufacturers would automatically enjoy virtually unrestricted entitlement to sell whatever is desired in britain under world trade organization rules . it makes little economic difference to germany , france , or italy whether britain is an eu member or simply within the wto .
answering them will require a debate that transcends issues like the separation of powers and judicial independence , and elucidates the proper relationship between politics and religion . for this , an understanding of the historical context of the current crisis is critical . when turkey became a democracy in 1950 , the previous regime ’s secular kemalist elites attempted to harness the power of the army and the bureaucracy to check elected governments . in fact , the turkish military , with the support of the judiciary , has intervened explicitly in the functioning of civilian government in the 1960 ’s , 1971 , 1980 , and 1997 , each time on the name of protecting secularism . in response , various religious groups , including the gülen movement , have encouraged their followers to take positions in the national bureaucracy and the military .
berlin – during the long night of negotiations over greece on july 12-13 , something fundamental to the european union ’s break with the eu . on the surface , the negotiations were about averting a greek exit from the eurozone ( or the “ grexit ” ) , as well as the dire consequences that would follow for greece and the monetary union . at a deeper level , however , what was at stake was a role for europe of its most populous and economically most powerful country . what had changed that night was the kind of germany that europeans knew since the end of world war ii . since then , europeans have lived in another type of eu .
but the rise of arab military coalitions raises serious concerns , not least because arab-led military interventions ’ history – unlike those carried out by the west in places like bosnia , kosovo , afghanistan , and even libya – does not hold a promising precedent . egypt ’s military intervention in yemen in the 1960s – a case in point . by the late 1965 , egyptian president gamel abdel nasser had deployed 70,000 troops in yemen to support a republican coup against royalist forces . despite the use of prohibited chemical weapons against yemeni guerillas from 1963 until 1967 , the former in a intra-arab conflict , egypt had failed to achieve its goals . typically , such interventions aimed at empowering a proxy political force over its military and political rivals , rather than averting a humanitarian catastrophe or institutionalizing a non-violent , post-war conflict-resolution mechanism .
beps were undoubtedly an important step toward tackling some of the most egregious tax-avoidance strategies used by multinational corporations . for example , it began sharing country-by-country tax authorities news on these firms ’ earnings and tax payments . today , there are 125 countries , forming a group called “ inclusive framework . ” unfortunately , however , that norm will apply only to very large multinational firms , and the news is not publicly available , depriving civil society of its crucial tool for transparency . led by oecd countries , the reform process was opening up to developing countries only once this initial package was unveiled .
pass-through firms now account for more than 80 % of net business incomes ( by far the highest share in advanced countries ) . likewise , while restricting net interest deductibility for corporations , as many other developed countries have done , would expand the tax base and discourage excessive reliance on debt financing , it would increase the tax burden on major investments in physical capital that are often debt-financed . reducing the tax preferences of non-corporate-tax entities ( such as partnerships ) that transmit their incomes through their ownership would also broaden the tax base subject to an corporate-income tax base . pass-through firms now account for more than 80 % of net business incomes ( by far the highest share in the advanced countries ) . and even eliminating accelerating depreciation would not expand the tax base sufficiently to finance a tariff cut to 28 % .
israel ’s disengagement plan presents the evacuation of gaza ’s settlements as an end to 37 years of occupation . that means that the israeli military will continue to enter gaza at will and maintain control over border crossings , airspace , as well as in territorial waters . likewise , however , israel is insisting that gaza will have no attributes of sovereignty , and will continue to be governed by the existing arrangements that cover most aspects of its security and civilian administration . nor will the israeli military withdraw from land strip along the palestinian-egyptian border . that way , these conditions rule out any possibility of forging a security plan that receives the backing of all factions , including hamas .
in some , such as portugal , malaysia , turkey , and even indonesia , their share of agricultural employment has declined by more than 20 % . in others , such as greece , italy , bulgaria , hungary , estonia , poland , the philippines , slovakia , and sri lanka , the decline has exceeded 10 % . almost 60 years later , america ’s agricultural employment rate peaked at 53 % of its total employment level . today , it is down to just under 3 % , compared to just 4 % in the united states . in fact , as recently as 1980 , most eu countries experienced massive agricultural employment declines .
islamabad – as pakistan chears up for its parliamentary election on february 18 , many observers hope that the popular vote will make it a period of stability and calm by lending popular legitimacy to the government . the upcoming elections , to be held under the country ’s illegal provisional constitutional order ( marco ) implemented following president pervez musharraf ’s state of emergency on november 3 , are such a case , one that my party and its coalition partners are boycotting the vote . in fact , my party supported has been running up , with opinion polls now indicate that it was the second-most popular in the frontier province – and gaining ground in every other province . to be sure , impeachment elections would provide my party with an overwhelming opportunity to take issues to the people . but , at times , a democracy serves as its best , by refusing to participate .
just as bernanke and others wish otherwise , and as much as bickering politicians seek to dump policy responsibilities on others , central banks lack the proper tools for dealing with the component of the unemployment crisis that results from insufficient investment in education , training , and physical capital . likewise , they are unable to fix debt overhangs , repair broke home finance , or address medium-term fiscal-reform challenges . the best that central banks can do is to buy time , albeit at a rising cost , for other policymaking entities to get their act together . and it bodes well for the official sector to pay more attention to joblessness – a very good thing . still , , unfortunately , there is no problem that needs to be addressed by any society ’s social fabric .
most of china ’s internationally shared water resources lie on the tibetan plateau , which it annexed in the early 1950s . unsurprisingly , the plateau is the new center of china ’s dam building . indeed , it was china ’s 13th five-year plan , released earlier this year , calling for a new wave of dam projects on the plateau . moreover , china recently slashed the flow of tributary of the brahmaputra river , the lifeline of bangladesh and northern india , to build a dam as part of a major hydroelectric project in tibet . in fact , china ’s dam builders are targeting most international rivers that flow from chinese soil .
washington , dc – ten years after the failure of lehman brothers , we know that multilateral action was crucial in preventing the so-called great recession from becoming even worse than it already is . today , it is a global trading system that is in jeopardy . much to its credit , the united states has eschewed retribution and reparations after world war ii . back then , it was the global financial system that was tottering . over the last 70 years , multilateralism served the world well .
this was certainly true of my own parents , who were sacrificing much to lift their nine children out of school . and yet this was not some farfetched transformation in a town where people were assuming new identities – like nasserist , baathist , islamist , or communist – downplayed their regional and tribal origins . moreover , schools were multiplying as attendance had surged as attendance . other public services were improving just as well , and parents believed that their children would lead more prosperous lives than they did and previous generations . nor were they unhappy when , in the 1970s , their older sons became communists , strenuously opposing the brutal regime of hafez al-assad , president bashar al-assad ’s father .
this track record as a result of high turnover , owing to overwork , and an increased need for foreign health-care workers to fill sorely needed positions . gcc policymakers have been right to focus on increasing access and subsidies for quality health care . but properly distribution of health-care services across indigenous and migrant populations is often a thorny policy issue . and now , policymakers must devote more attention to the health-care workforce itself , ensuring that it is properly educated and trained for the challenges that await the region . training programs in the gcc ’s national health systems today focus little on innovation or systems thinking to improve efficiency and effectiveness .
if the army collapses , it is algeria ’s [ and ] france that collapses . the decisive moment came when de gaulle , in a military uniform , went on television to demonstrate his mastery of a new medium . if the state , france before the challenge it faced , would be no more than a poor , broken toy floating on the ocean of insecurity , ” he warned . insisting that self-determination was the only way ahead has challenged the army in order to reject even a passive association with an insurrection , instructing it to reassert the public order . if the military collapses , it is algeria ’s [ and ] france that collapses .
iranian students should be encouraged to visit and study in asian universities , where they will discover how confident young chinese and indian students are of a future − which may well cause them to reflect why the young iranians do not share this optimism . by pursuing these divisions , they would allow the new forces to emerge in iranian society . so all means should be found to reach out to iranian society at all levels . iranian students should be encouraged to visit and study in asian universities , where they would discover how confident young chinese and indian students are about a future − which may well cause them to reflect why the young iranians do not share this optimism . what could be learned with certainty is that the regime is split .
common funding , with all members paying a share according to their gdp , is one tool that can be used for more equitable burden sharing . during the last few years , nato ’s ’s ’s ’s funding policies have been updated to allow common funding to be used as an incentive to supply certain types of theater-level enabling capabilities , such as medical facilities , airports handling armies and supplies , or the intelligence services . indeed , how can one evaluate the contribution of light infantry against critical enablers like helicopters or air-to-air refueling tankers ? over what time period makes such calculations ? traditionally , nato has applied a policy of “ cost lie ” where they fall : every member has picked up all the costs of the operational contribution it makes to alliance operations .
owing to easy financing and regulatory forbearance , aggregate supply has risen as “ zombie ” firms proliferated . meanwhile , aggregate demand has been restrained by debt headwinds – still another result of easy monetary conditions – as yet another result of easy monetary conditions . with so many potential dangers on the horizon , central bankers should at least consider rethinking the fundamental assumptions underpinning their policies . owing to such conditions , continued insisting on monetary easing seems particularly ill-advised . moreover , one might argue that easy money alone contributed to the unexpectedly powerful deflationary forces seen in recent years .
ever since the terrorist attacks on new york and washington last year , the regime — which used to be central to american strategic interests in the region — has been made to feel dispensable when america falls short of america , which drops powerful hints that there are alternatives to saudi military bases , even to saudi oil . al-qaeda ’s terrorist networks are seen as resulting directly from fundamentalist wahhabi teachings that constitute an integral part of the saudi regime . though the saudis were not included in president bush ’s “ axis of evil , ” ” ” ” some american policymakers now view the country as a “ kernel of evil . accordingly , amid a poor set of options , the least bad seems to be cooperative with america . yet cooperation with the us might not gain much , because saudi relations with america are strained to the breaking point .
how victims remember the trauma is probably the most controversial topic faced by , say , psychology and psychiatry today . many clinical trauma theorists believe that combat , rape , and other terrifying experience is the seeming spirit to be engraved in the mind , never to be forgotten . others disagree , arguing that the mind can protect itself by banishing memories of awareness , making it hard for victims to remember their most horrific experience , until it is safe to do so many years later . while acknowledging that trauma is often everybody over-memorable , these certain clinical trauma theorists assert that a condition known as the “ traumatic dissociative amnesia ” leaves a large victims unable to recall their trauma , precisely because it was so overwhelmingly terrifying in the past . nevertheless , those clinical trauma theorists can not argue that these clinical trauma theorists do not argue that “ repressed ” or dissociated ” memories of horrific events get either inert or benign .
like a child , mastering elé belé belé ’s cruel art of elé belé was an important part . in calcutta , when some younger kid emerged and insisted on joining the playing field my own friends , we would let the new kid in , but only after whispers into each other ’s ears , elé belé . when a new kid arrived , accompanied by a doting mother , we could convey to one another with a simple glance that the kid would be an elé belé . an elé belé is a player who thinks she is participating but , in truth , going through motions . everybody knew that the goal , which represents herself , was not an actual objective .
as the growth pessimism of recent years fades , some warnings that have been heeded in recent years seem all too outdated . for example , northwestern university ’s robert gordon has argued that america ’s economy is bound to be in a slowdown because today ’s tech innovations do not boost growth to the extent that they have in the past . for example , northwestern university ’s robert gordon has argued that america ’s economy is bound to be in a slowdown , because today ’s tech innovations do not boost growth to the extent that they have in the past . yet , while zero-sum below what is perhaps a binding constraint , there are potential causes for concern , one concerning the level of debt . harvard ’s lawrence h. summers got a lot of attention for his argument that the world risked backsliding toward “ secular stagnation , ” because the interest rate needed to bring in much-needed investment was below zero .
but even a joint expert-level mechanism – set forth in 2007 merely for “ interaction and cooperation ” on hydrological data – has proven to have little merit . in fact , china has been damming the vast majority of international rivers flowing out of tibet , whose fragile ecosystem is already at risk of global warming . the only rivers on which no hydro-engineering works have been conducted so far are those of the indus , whose basin is falling largely in india and pakistan , and the salween that flow into burma and thailand . local authorities in yunnan province , however , they reflect the damming salween in the quake-prone upstream region . india has been pressing china for transparency , greater hydrological data-sharing , and a commitment not to redeploying any river ’s natural river or diminishing cross-border water flows .
as for china ’s renminbi , it is still backed by a highly political exchange-rate regime . but , in 2011 , a majority of the ilibration will probably take place through a combination of inflation . maybe , but a majority of student of monetary policy views quantitative easing as textbook policies to pull the economy out of a zero-interest-rate “ liquidity trap , ” ” ” thereby avoiding the onset of persistent deflation to exacerbate the debt burden . finally , currency chaos is the safest bet to all , with sharp and unforeseeable swings in floating exchange rates worldwide . eventually , china ’s rapid growth will need to come from a sharp rise in its currency , its home price level , or both .
with america distracted by its other strategic challenges – not to mention its domestic presidential campaign – asia ’s other powers – particularly economically surging india and a more politically assertive japan – are also the best jobs candidates . without such cooperation , a rising china ’s aspirations would be constrained solely by domestic factors such as a faltering economy , rising social discontent , worsening environmental crises , or vicious politics . both india and japan are longstanding stakeholders in the us-led global order , emphasizing in their own international relations with the values america espouses , such as the need to maintain a stable balance of power , respect a territorial and maritime status quo , and maintain freedom of navigation . moreover , they have displayed a shared desire to internationalize the existing asian order . which countries should assume the lead in constraining china ’s revisionist ambitions ?
at the same time , developed countries should fulfill their pledges under the un convention to provide financial support and technology transfer to enable developing countries to deal effectively with climate change . at the same time , the global financial crisis has undoubtedly exacerbated the challenge of addressing climate change . yet , because climate change represents a more far-reaching and serious challenge , the world must not waver in its decisiveness and their commitment to address it . moreover , proper mechanisms and institutional arrangements should be established for adaptation , financial support , and technology transfer . for developing countries , as well as for sustainable development and with measurable , reportable and verifiable support in terms of finance , technology , and capacity-building will take nationally appropriate mitigation actions .
and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere elsewhere in the world . florence – earlier this month , jim yong kim – has abruptly resigned his post as world bank president , leaving a pillar of the leaderless and rules-based international financial order . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but that does not augur all-out war . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but that does not augur all-out war .
that , arguably , is what the bank of japan ( boj ) is now doing . boj governor haruhiko kuroda has made the case for directly underwriting the budget deficit is not an option . yet he has initiated a policy of replacing government bonds on boj ’s balance sheet once they are mature while continually increasing the volume of government debt on the central bank ’s books . this comes after years of statements by prominent economists , including berkeley ’s brad delong and former american federal reserve chair ben bernanke , that helicopter money is offering a way to tackle deflation ( with which japan has been struggling for decades ) . the <UNK> ter-money version would be the purchase of zero-interest-rate government bonds that do n’t be repaid , either because they are perpetual bonds , or because they are rolled over each time they are mature .
trump ’s core supporters are wrongly thought to be displaced and economically insecure specifically blue-collar workers . in fact , his voters ’ average annual income , at around $ 72,000 , is actually well above america ’s median household of $ 56,000 . media outlets lent just as much as $ 2 trillion in benefits to free coverage , thereby helping him pick up and hold leadership in polls and most of the primaries . media outlets gave as much as $ 2 trillion worth of free coverage worth , helping him grab and hold in polls and most of his primaries . his supporters resemble the “ tea party ” : overwhelmingly older , male , middle-class , and white .
once a group of people has been viewed as disgusting , attention shifts away from them as moral individuals . they become soulless bodies , and a moral circle closes in to exclude them . our reactions to soulless bodies are well illustrated in the story told by descartes after he died . descartes was known that descartes had an illegitimate daughter , the francine , who died when she was five years old . according to the story , descartes had been so struck by grief that he has created an automaton , mechanized doll , built to make it seem identical to his dead daughter .
prime minister recep tayyip erdogan ’s response summarized turkish sentiment : “ these bombs aim to destroy peace and stability in our country . if these bombings are meant to send a message , i will sweep it off and crush it beneath my legs . ” but the terrorist attacks in istanbul are unlikely to generate a potent reaction in the suppression of democratic rights . for its part , we will not change our course , because we will . if al-qaeda was behind the attacks , it grossly miscalculated .
nonetheless , khamenei ’s invocation echoes the demands of the many conservative-pragmatists who lean toward mousavi , who are out of touch with khamenei ’s authority direct . if khamenei is holding fast , mousavi can not win the presidency , but will continue to represent the hopes of iranians who differ dramatically with their government . should mousavi persuade khamenei to reconsider his position , the supreme leader ’s hold on power will be rattled . mousavi must continue his legal campaign carefully without compromising the trust that he has acquired from the iranians ’ majority . he must stand with his two principal demands : a repeat of the election and establishment of an impartial committee to rule on the government ’s violations of electoral law .
but even when yanukovych was thinking primarily of his own interest , his quest for personal enrichment was irrational . there is also something even more fundamental than one of his reputations . imagine that he stopped asking himself what would make him happier . imagine that he had ceased to ask himself what would make him happier . imagine that , with this question in mind , he had compared the alternative of a lavish lifestyle ( with a private zoo and pirate-ship restaurant ) with that of living comfortably on what he was entitled , while knowing that he was governing with integrity and doing his best to improve ukraine ’s citizens ’ lives . a political leader has greater opportunity than almost anyone else to help the people , and that was yanukovych ’s top priority .
on the day of incheon ’s visit , north korea ’s ’s ’s state news agency continued bellicose and derogatory language toward south korea and the us : “ lurching behind ” this is ulterior design [ prod more ] zealously the south korean puppet forces into deepening the confrontation with the dprk in a bid to constrain the situation to the extreme pitch and to ignite [ ] second korean war . it remains to be seen whether it seeks to engage the rest of the world in a constructive and sustained manner , or whether the dprk officials and diplomats are simply inserting a good face forward , in order to deflect international attention from their country ’s reputation as a nuclear-weapons-monger and human-rights violator . after all , north korea has been far less and more forthcoming on its intentions . two days before a north korean delegation arrived , the committee for the peaceful reunification of korea ( cprk ) – which is formally part of the korean workers ’ party – denounced “ south korean puppet forces for seriously violating north-south joint statements and pushing north-south ties to the worst disaster . ” indeed , the visit to incheon comes within a context of mixed messages .
yes , people do specialize , and they should specialize . but specialization at the individual level actually leads to higher-quality diversification . everybody benefits from each person becomes good at different things , and exchanging our knowhow for others . when an idea is both an intuitively true and indeed false , that is often because it is true on a single level but not on the level that it is claimed . it is not conducive to a dentist and an attorney .
gene-drive organisms are scheduled to spread indefinitely , and mosquitoes , especially females , can surf air currents at relatively high altitudes ( 40-290 meters , or 131-951 feet ) where winds can blow them hundreds of miles . this choice may indicate that the organization ’s leaders were already deciding to proceed with the release.reinforcing that conclusion , after the un convention , target malaria attempted to draw a distinction between demanding free , prior , and informed consent within a context of medical research on individuals ( where it was demanded ) and in a public-health context . by contrast , a few people i interviewed called for the experimental release of genetically modified mosquitoes to be halted until the risks and effects had been adequately investigated , and civil society throughout burkina faso had been fully informed.target malaria ’s lack of commitment to consent reflects its own rhetoric , which eschews the unequivocal word “ consent , ” but regularly uses like “ engagement ” and “ community acceptance . ” this means that consent would have to be secured significantly beyond the release point.subscribe nowh4 { text-align : center ; } for a limited time merely ; get unlimited access toon point ; the big picture ; and ps archive , plus our annual magazine , for only $ 75 . likewise , civil-society groups operating in and around the test-site villages have not been adequately consulted on target malaria ’s work.the more interviews i conducted , the clearer it became that local people had not been involved in a genuinely participatory debate on a target malaria project
in fact , young people in countries as diverse as egypt and the united states are in effect competing with young chinese and indians for jobs . so far , they are not protesting much , but many end up in jail . many more have simply become discouraged , and have dropped out of the labor force altogether : not in school , not in labor , and not looking for work . the world ’s ’s labor markets are now interconnected , as are now . china has low-paid , reasonably productive manufacturing workers , and high-quality infrastructure ( roads , power , ports , and communications ) set the standard for competitiveness globally .
article 7 of the treaty of lisbon provides for the suspension of a rogue eu member state ’s voting rights . but , because this “ nuclear option ” requires unanimity by all eu member states , everyone knows that it never will be possible to use it . in reality , article 7 is like such an ineffective deterrent that it serves rule-breakers ’ interests , by all but guaranteeing do not go unpunished . orbán has been scamming the eu for years , encouraging other populists to pursue his own authoritarian ends – as well as with eu funds to boot . but weakening the rule of law is not simply domestic in hungary or poland .
even before the invasion , there was overwhelming evidence suggesting that bush was lying . now , in iraq , bush has pursued a “ unilateralist ” agenda , stating that there is uncontrovertible evidence of a connection with al queda , as well as that saddam has weapons of mass destruction . detection technology has made it clear that the iraqi people lacked nuclear weapons , as the chief un inspector hans blix pointed out . even before the invasion , there was overwhelming evidence that bush was lying . perhaps bush read those reports , but they were beyond his comprehension .
returnees are present in many other asian countries as well , from the philippines and indonesia to the maldives and uzbekistan . all of these groups are driven by nihilistic rage born of hostility toward non-sunnis and rejection of modernity . unfortunately , as sri lanka ’s bombings and other attacks in asia demonstrate , the defeat of isis in syria and iraq has only intensified the challenge of the terrorism , as battle-hardened fighters with operational training to stage savage attacks are now returning home . the presence of such returnees in sri lanka explains how the obscure local group has been able to conduct sophisticated , near-simultaneous strikes on three churches and three hotels , using military-grade explosives . like osama bin laden and other al-qaeda leaders who cut their teeth in a us-backed war against the soviet occupation of afghanistan , this new generation of jihadist veterans could haunt asia , the middle east , and the west for years to come .
denver – the angelina jolie ’s new movie , “ in the soil of blood and honey , ” is about the ethnic tensions that have produced the bloodiest conflict in europe since world war ii . as jolie ’s movie so ably shows , neither the international community nor the local leaders have made concerted efforts to contain bloodshed . the film has already won two awards , and is an emerging box-office success , attesting to enduring interests – and perhaps a mystery – that the balkan holds on for international audiences that were just as contemptuous of the events of the 1990 ’s . for those of us who have lived and worked in the region during that turbulent decade , the post-yugoslav wars remain fresh wounds . one exceptions – perhaps the single exceptions – were kemal gligorov , president of macedonia , who languishes on new year ’s day in the age of 94 .
moreover , this trend understates the challenges of weak productivity growth . there is evidence of falling foreign investment , and this contributes to the economy at a disappointing level in investment overall . there are also signs that uk-based firms have begun to trigger their brexit contingency plans , after a prolonged period of waiting , schedule , and more wait . and that process will probably accelerate , even if british prime minister theresa may manages to get her proposed exit deal through parliament . beyond shifting investment from the bri , firms will also start relocating jobs .
he advocates local decision-making anytime soon , but also encourages national and european-level decision-making , where that is adequate ; a key here is that the processes should be flexible , allowing for citizen participation . and he views globalization as good , but he understands that it has to be managed through durable , efficient international agreements and institutions . he recognizes that shared sovereignty will make europe more influential , thereby empowering its citizens . yet if macron qualifies a second-round second round , he would pose a greater threat to le pen than an outright far-left candidate would . opinion polls are currently bouncing wildly , owing to fillon ’s refugee scandal and a surge in support for hamas among left-wing voters outside the socialist party .
the european project is , after all , a realist response to globalization and its challenges . it was initiated to create “ solidarités ” de fait accompli , who foster political stability and consolidating democracy and the european social model . having achieved those goals , europe now wants to make positive contributions to world developments . an unprecedented level of solidarity now exists across europe , as was evident in italy ’s collective mourning and an outpouring of sympathy toward spain ; we must build on that enormous potential for creating the very logic of global solidarity . this is not to give credence to past glory .
for starters , there is his answer to queen elizabeth ii ’s a now-famous question : “ why did nobody see it coming ? ” krugman ’s mercurial response is that the new keynesians looked the other way . there was some “ overlooked ” ” ” crucial institutional changes in the financial system . while this was regrettable , it raised no “ deep conceptual issue ” – that is , it did n’t demand that they rethink their theory . theirs was a failure not of theory , but of “ data-collection . ”
the same can not be said for kaczyński.another major difference is that eastern europeans tend to hold more materialist attitudes than westerners , who have moved beyond concerns about physical security to embrace what sociologist ronald inglehart calls post-materialist values . one aspect of this difference is that eastern european societies are more vulnerable to attack on highly abstract , liberal institutions , such as freedom of speech and judicial independence.that should not be too surprising . after all , liberalism in eastern europe is a western ; it is imports from europe . it is not only weaker in eastern europe ; it is also focused more on areas like charity , religion , and leisure rather than political issues.moreover , in the vastly different political landscape of europe ’s postcommunist states , the left is either very weak or totally absent from the political mainstream . beyond trump and brexit phenomena , america and the uk have deeply embedded cultures of political and social liberalism .
so long as germany can not shift to a more domestic-demand-driven growth model , that projection will probably turn out to be right . but that is a big “ “ if ” . as for the eurozone , we seem to have been too optimistic , even as we foresaw the drop in potential growth to 1.5 % . nowadays , most forecasters have placed the region ’s growth potential at around 1 % . yet , while most press coverage has focused on germany ’s falling exports and manufacturing output , the country ’s service sector remains strong .
given the anticipated upswing in turkey ’s economy and its falling birthrate , experts are predicting a figure of around 2.7 million migrants by that point . the size of these remittances would depend , however , on the eu ’s own financial policies at its admission time , the outcome of the accession talks , and economic developments within turkey would depend on the eu . in each case , the eu ’s practice of “ capping ” its budget would prevent an explosion in the funding cost entailed by turkey ’s eu accession . moreover , immigration should not be a cause for undue concern , either . human mobility is limited , and turkey ’s workforce would most likely be allowed to move freely within the eu only after a long transition period , perhaps not before 2025 .
more than most people realize , the gospels treat recalcitrant jews -- those who refuse to accept jesus as their messiah -- as the perpetrators of a crime living in each generation . matthew then attributes to jews a recurrent lie explaining away the resurrection and disappearance of jesus ’s body : “ his disciples come at night and steal him while we slept . ” the later evangelist john concludes that , because jews are denying the christian messiah that they must be “ the devil sons . ” just as whites attribute the extraordinary black-box sexual powers , the instinct of christian westerners is to treat jews as extraordinary forces masters -- including the power to kill their deities and control world finance . anti-semites often cite the passage in matthew in which a jewish mob cheers for christ ’s act and voluntarily accepts enduring guilt : “ his blood is upon us and our children . ”
encouraged by the illusion of a strong reserve position , the thai central bank took on -- and lost -- speculators . so the idea that “ this country is different , ” ” ” ” that the rules of global finance did not apply , turned out to be utter nonsense . thailand ’s ruling last may last may to cut interest rates made it a safe gamble to bet on brazil , the opening salvo in the context of the crisis . but , with too much of the macho , too little policy and provincialism , reform never took hold . by the time crisis hit , thailand seemed like all the rest of which were turning in its desperation to the imf .
that is a task to which non-governmental organizations and protest movements are not well-endowed : they can arouse public conscience but can not be openly committed to governments . so the effort to nail down the concessions that the protests have extracted , the hour of governments arrived . not least was the effort of protest movements that france has now made concessions on both of these counts . but how can such concessions , given under duress , be secure ? that is a task under which non-governmental organizations and protest movements are ill-suited : they can raise public conscience but be barred from governments .
however , as the top russian propagandist dmitry kiselev recently acknowledged , “ higher learning in the humanities ( and social sciences ) breeds social unrest . ” not surprisingly , he complained that “ too many ” russians study these subjects . the russian population will not become well-informed , overnight . compounding that challenge , the cohort of informed elites in russia is rising . as the russian propagandist dmitry kiselev recently acknowledged , “ higher learning in the humanities ( and social sciences ) breeds social unrest .
london – officials at the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) have long insisted that “ china will not weaponize the renminbi . ” so far , many are wondering whether china will respond to trump ’s trade war by threatening a currency war . if it does so , the world should be able to call its bluff . and yet , implicit in their promise not to manipulate a currency for strategic ends is their capacity to do so , if doing so is so desirable . china ’s ’s monetary policy has come to the fore now that us president donald trump has imposed import tariffs on a wide range of chinese goods .
but that clearly is not the only factor behind the rise of populist nationalism . besides contributing to the size and productivity of the labor force , it would seem that immigrants also often complement native-born skills , to help them earn more . my professional focus is on economics , which is why i emphasized the role of growth . the fact that developed countries are changing culturally also matters , perhaps more so as well . in the us , for example , an foreign-born share of the population has risen from around 5 % in 1960 to around 14 % today .
after walking off the scene , palestinian leaders who were born under occupation and spent time in israeli prisons will most likely fill this vacuum . that shift , in turn , clears the way for a generational change of leadership – and more important , is the transition to post-oslo politics . the most prominent such figure is marwan barghouti , the leader of the student movement at birzeit university in the 1980 ’s , and one of the main first intifada organizers , resulting in his deportation by israel in the late 1980 ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s . in 2002 , he was arrested and sentenced to lengthy prison terms on charges that he had run the second intifada , which began more than two years earlier , ordering some of his military strikes . the plo ’s old guard – men like yasser arafat and abbas – led the freedom organization of exile and returned home with the oslo accords – dominated the palestinian political landscape up to now .
this will not be easy for a regime based on the twin pillars of the bureaucracy and the security apparatus . these are the key ingredients in a nationalist stew that now seems to appeal to russians . judging by putin ’s mostly recent address to parliament , his regime is well aware of the danger posed by populist nationalists . he is likely to attempt to counter this eruption of nationalism , while maintaining its heavy-handed rhetoric . but , to defeat the far right , putin ’s regime will be compelled to assume its stand on more or less liberal ideological terrain .
indeed , in taiwan itself , tsai is just as committed . responding to public opposition to nuclear energy in june ’s 2011 fukushima meltdown , tsai has pledged taiwan ’s nuclear-free status by 2025 . tsai has called for her country ’s per capita renewables share to rise to 20 % in the next eight years , with capacity that comes primarily from solar and offshore wind . this new load would easily replace the electricity generated by a country ’s six nuclear reactors . today , coal and natural gas provide more than two-thirds of the country ’s electricity needs , with renewables accounting for up to 5 % .
rudolf diesel ’s first engine , engineered in the late 1800s , ran on fuel sourced from peanut oil . only in recent decades have biofuels regained their initial appeal , owing to efforts to secure accessible energy , generate incomes , and mitigate the dependence of which ford warned . henry ford once shaked florida in hopes of purchasing land tracts to the production of sugarcane , convinced that the united states wo n’t tolerate pollution from burning fossil fuels or dependency implicit in importing oil to produce gasoline . the pioneer of biofuels would probably have been surprised by how little to contribute to overall global fuel supply today . as production of these fuels grows , so will us policies , programs , and capabilities that ensure that they are used sustainably without distorting food markets or compromising food security , which in turn will be a initial priority .
others fanned the flames of anglo-german antagonism , caricaturing protectionist germany as the barbarian society surviving on mount sausages and dog-meat ; lloyd george , a future greek prime minister , told audiences that he was more fearful of german sausage than he was of germany ’s naval . one reason that free trade defeated protectionism in britain a century ago was that its supporters appealed to people ’s emotions and identities , not only their rational interest in more wealth and cheap labor . liberals and radicals organized traveling shows , color posters , and us political entertainment . in towns , displays in shop windows illustrated the costs of tariffs to ordinary consumers . to their credit , many british people believed in a “ free trade empire . ”
an inordinately lax regulatory environment has proved lethal , encouraging northern european banks to stall their balance sheets with southern european government and bank bonds . when the credit bubble bursts , it left in its wake the woefully expensive economies that lost their competitiveness . the effort to create the european equivalent of the us dollar and impose fiscal union at the very top , despite the absence of a common european state , is bound to go bankrupt . it will turn member countries and lenders into one another , stoking even greater animosity . europeans should now use calm across storm fronts to rethink europe ’s currency union from the ground up .
moreover , inflation in some asean countries may rise with the coming of floating exchange rates . because of this , their exports ’ price competitiveness may become lessened . rival asian economies will need to be stabilized before they can push their exports aggressively . indeed , the latter now stand at over 15 % of gdp . hit by chinese exports is likely to be taken as a result of the region ’s ’s ’s ’s currency depreciations , nevertheless , as seems improbable .
in addition , there are genuine disagreements within america ’s bureaucracy , when it comes to assessing the threat that al qaeda in mali poses to american interests . following from above , the eu has operational and symbolic significance . symbolically , it implies backing the initial and significant efforts that have been undertaken by others . for europe , this situation is worrying on two counts . symbolically , it is confined to the isr , and does n’t involve ground troops .
on the other hand , when a country ’s foreign assets are held not by its households , but by institutions like pension funds can be identified and taxed . indeed , this is mostly the case in europe . the private sector had large foreign assets , whereas the government held approximately equal amounts of foreign liabilities . even then , argentina went bankrupt , because wealthy argentines spirited their assets outside of the country and therefore outside of the government ’s reach , while poor argentines rejected the taxes needed to please foreign creditors ’ claims . this analysis suggests that the “ excessive [ though politically ” imbalances of the procedure that are supposed to be introduced under the ongoing reform of eurozone governance goes in the right direction .
stars of barcelona , real madrid , chile , and milan are household names . but exposure to foreign tv stations also means that many disillusioned algerians look to flee to italy , spain , or germany as their only hope for a job and a decent life . will the coming months bring genuine change to algeria ? will social and economic reforms be implemented to ensure the region ’s equitable distribution of oil and gas wealth ? disappointed in their political leaders , algerians , ’ unity stems largely from their shared love of soccer .
it is not yet clear what led greenspan to endorse this tax cut . was it massive economic misjudgment , or was it peddled favor to the bush administration ? the most likely explanation is a combination , for both he and bush pursued the same “ starve ” political strategy that urges tax cuts to be used to reduce revenue , thereby compelling the public sector to be downsized . lower interest rates worked , but too little because they encouraged investment , but because they led households to refinance their mortgages and fueled a housing price bubble . in short , as greenspan departs , he leaves behind an american economy burdened by high household and government debt and fragile balance sheets – a legacy that is already contributing to global financial instability .
ethiopia is hardly the only recent example of how conflicts over land rights can set the stage for political and humanitarian crises . a historic drought may have created the conditions for syria ’s civil war . and food insecurity stemming from land mismanagement is an important factor driving migrants to europe . land-related issues will continue to undermine global stability – particularly if the effects of climate change exacerbate existing problems . competition for arable land contributed to the rwandan genocide in 1994 .
because they are leading far more carbon-intensive lifestyles than almost everyone else , they would contribute far more to a carbon dividend . more to the point , they would pay to far more than they return , whereas the poorest 60 % of americans would recover more than they place in their homes . in the short run , a “ carbon dividend ” would distribute money from predominantly wealthy polluters to predominantly low – and with middle-income low polluters all while lowering co2 emissions . on their own , this would represent a smart step in the right direction – one that would not invite the “ yellow vest ” reaction . but do n’t allow anyone to tell it ’s a silver bullet .
a further lesson for sarkozy from germany is that an enlightened corporate state needs supportive political leadership just as accommodating trade unions . german chancellor angela merkel does not make speeches attacking a strong europe and the european central bank their mandate for price stability . on the contrary , she supports an independent ecb , and has allowed germany ’s trade unions and companies to know that they will have to live with a strong currency and counter inflationary monetary policies . this does not mean that merkel is a free market capitalist – there is little evidence of that . rather , she simply understands that for the economy in need of a competitive , bad-mouthing europe and the ecb sends bad signals .
because of its geopolitical weight , germany ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s perspective is now synonymous with that of the european union . germany is , in the same boat , as all other europeans are with respect to security . and the eu ’s outlook is not that of a hegemon ; rather , its most fundamental political and economic interests depend on a strong , successful eu – particularly at trump ’s age – age . just as there can not be any french security without germany , there can be no german security without poland . and the eu ’s outlook is not that of a hegemon ; rather , its most fundamental political and economic interests depend on a strong , successful eu – particularly at trump ’s age .
indeed , very few of those receiving ect also do not get benzodiazepines , resulting in significant autobiographical memory problems when viewed on alone and antipsychotic drugs , causing difficulties with lists of names or telephone numbers and other comparable problems . nor can enduring autobiographical remembrance disturbances and the inability to remember lists readily account for ect readily , because ect rarely gives it to its own . yet critics have found it hard to demonize memory or any other cognitive difficulties – that is , beyond three months . to be sure , there is little dispute that ect can cause short-term memory loss . by contrast , the same is true of antidepressant drugs .
if they were , no domestic bankruptcy law would exist , which spells issues like precedence and fair treatment . so why should we think that they would suffice in the far more complex world of sovereign-debt restructurings ? in particular , cacs tend to have only one aggregation problem . yet , however , no government has found cacs that are adequate to resolving domestic restructuring . if a cac requires , say , some 75 % of holders of each bond class , the vultures could buy 26 % of just one bond class and block the entire restructuring .
holding talks in a contemporary atmosphere of mistrust , mutual recrimination , and fearmongering will require a massive investment of political capital for a lasting time . we arrived at this point precisely because both russia and the west spent more than a decade pursuing unilateral advantage , and eschewing negotiated compromises . moving beyond the current adversarial approaches to finding common ground will take time . what the eu should do is strengthen the case for open dialogue and hard bargaining – precisely what has long been missing in western policy on the ukraine crisis and the entirety of its post-soviet eurasian region . a quick deal will make it impossible to implement .
but it also represents the global gold standard in many fields , including technology , defense and research and development . america ’s federal government ’s size and power grew very slowly only very slowly until the 1930s , when the new deal – which included federal programs , public works projects , and fiscal reforms and regulations – was implemented in response to the great depression . america ’s federal government expanded both during and after wwii , reflecting the country ’s new global hegemony and the prosperity of its middle class ( created in no small part by the new deal ’s advocates for unionization and home ownership ) . the government assumed a greater role in areas ranging from defense and foreign policy to health care and social security . contrary to china ’s statist legacy , america ’s historical experience instilled in its citizens and leaders ’ devotion to liberty , including free markets and local autonomy .
the exact number of european fighters gaining training from isis and returning home remains unknown . isis has so far hit france and turkey the hardest . france has suffered more than 230 fatalities and some 700 injured , while turkey has endured more than 220 deaths and some 900 wounded . abdelhamid mogherini , who leads the november 2015 paris attacks , has claimed that she is one of 90 isis-trained terrorists in europe . isis has reportedly trained 4,000-600 fighters for “ outside operations ” involving urban guerrilla warfare ; improvisational devices ( ieds ) ; surveillance , countersecurity ; and forgery .
in bangladesh , for example , brac schools run by brac employ female teachers ( which is key to boosting girls ’ enrollment ) , and outperform government-run schools in terms of learning outcomes . but the shortage of qualified female teachers makes scaling up such efforts hard to impossible . to account for the learning crisis in many developing countries , governments and development agencies should look for more opportunities to form strategic partnerships with non-state providers . women account for just over a third of all afghan primary-- and secondary-school teacher training , partly owing to abnormally low female literacy . fortunately , the afghan government has begun to open its doors to innovative ngo models like the brac ’s community-based education program .
in all four of these countries , the severity of economic mismanagement reflects the long-standing use of state expenditures to fund the regime ’s allies and clients , rather than for the benefit of entire populations . such economic shocks exposed each country ’s massive sectarian-based political system . these regimes dominated each country ’s private sectors through cronyism , not only to extract and distribute customer rents , but also to block the emergence of autonomous entities , which could finance opposition movements . as a result , the benefits of capital and skills were misallocated , the business climate worsened , and competition , innovation , and growth endured . and the demonstrators , egged on economic grievances , were emboldened by broader security conditions , owing to their defeat by the islamic state and the astounding war in syria .
but diminished flexibility in response to economic shocks will surely test this . at present , it boldly highlights the disparate , even discordant , fiscal responses now being embraced by european union governments . that raises the old question of whether a currency union could operate without a form of fiscal union or at least stronger , more binding fiscal rules ( the maastricht deficit liabilities are too easily violated ) . to that we must add coordinated financial regulation and bailout policies as deposits flow rapidly across borders in response to domestic guarantees and europe-wide insurance insurance . will the euro ’s second decade function be as successful as the first ?
nowadays , the language barriers prevent many immigrant parents from helping their children with homework because the texts are only in english . but imagine a world in which textbooks are continually updated and remedied by the rights of many learning styles , and translated into myriad languages . to be sure , such a world was only a dream a decade ago . but imagine a world in which textbooks are continually updated and remedied by the rights legion . today , the pluto remains on the planetary list in science textbooks , and who knows how long it will take to remove it .
one strong school of thought that has emerged almost as the killing spree began in 1989 is that the more radical new student leaders have been reckless . indeed , which is why proponents of that school often come up with ai , china was not yet ready for democracy . to be sure , a violent crackdowns have been inevitable . by provoking a regime , students derailed any chance of slow political reform , which their more moderate elders had meticulously set in train . if they alone could be had their place in china .
yet international donors are dragging their feet both at meeting existing obligations and at making the new ones . and not all of the world ’s aid will stop the killing . it is too late for non-military instruments of coercion to have a lot of effect , even though the security council threats of international criminal tribunals for atrocity crimes – including any use of chemical weapons – must stay on the table . but what of the military-response options has still strongly favored many policymakers and pundits ? delivery problems abound in war zones , but not everywhere , so .
for example , with trump calling for a reduction in us military involvement in the middle east , trump is merely echoing obama . yet , by reneging on his nuclear deal with iran , trump has made war in the region more likely . trump ’s ’s ’s global trade war is equally self-defeating . by slapping tariffs on america ’s closest allies , he practically drives them to the arms of china . and , by trump himself , to ease north korea under international isolation while gaining almost nothing in return , he has reinforced china ’s standing in east asia .
every country could create a board that represents public actors ( transportation , public works , customs ) , and the big users ( exporters and logistics companies ) that need to work together to identify ways to reduce the cost of logistics . just as vital , albeit for committees to be developed along similar lines in each country ’s provincial districts is possible . communication between users and government departments is vital to achieve any true improvement . merchandise need not flow through capital , because it does in most latin american and caribbean countries , with the associated cost increases . across the board , regions may turn to the engines of growth .
the fdp ’s ideas have broad support in germany and among german economists ( and are shared by a number of other european economists ) . but policies that might work in a perfect world of efficient and resilient financial markets might be hazardous if applied in highly imperfect real-world markets . just as we saw a decade ago , financial institutions operating in an environment of uncertainty can become brittle and collapse , imposing heavy costs on society . and they are consistent with positions taken by germany ’s finance ministry under the previous government . the idea of a temporary euro exit is particularly ill-advised .
will it return to robust growth , or will the us have an anemic recovery , à la japan in the 1990 ’s ? right now , i cast my vote for the latter , particularly given that an enormous legacy of debt is likely to dampens enthusiasm for the big stimulus that is required . consumption and investment will be cut back further , on balance . many wall street financiers , having received their cash gobs , are returning to their fiscal religion of low deficits . without a sufficiently large stimulus ( in excess of 2 % of gdp ) , the us will run a vicious negative spiral : a weak economy will mean more bankruptcies that pushes stock prices down and interest rates up , undermine consumer confidence and weaken the banks .
prague – global free trade provides the greatest opportunities to improve human welfare over the next decade and a half . it has already helped to lift more than one billion people out of poverty over the past quarter-century . yet , in rich countries nowadays , sentiment has turned against free trade . yes , there are costs to free trade that must be better addressed ; but the costs are vastly outweighed by the benefits . lowering trade barriers further , while necessary , could just double average incomes in the world ’s poorest parts over the next 15 years .
when muslims form a minority , they tended to co-exist peacefully with other religions , but where their populations are substantial ( as in nigeria ) , they tend to assert themselves . nevertheless , nigeria ( and perhaps zanzibar ) remains an exception in islamic assertiveness in sub-saharan africa , which is precisely why the idea of an active “ islamic world ” comprises only a relatively restricted segment of sub-saharan african muslims . whatever its ethnic and other divisions are at stake , the “ america versus them ” sentiment has played a large role in fomenting a religious conflict in nigeria . whether they like it or not , most sub-saharan african muslims are represented by states that are predominantly secular , christian , or dominate by other religions . nonetheless , muslims in sub-saharan africa , like most muslims worldwide , exhibit an “ us versus them ” mentality .
indeed , piketty argues that our “ obsession with growth ” merely “ serves as an excuse for doing nothing about health , education , or for redistribution . ” and it is an obsession rooted in the current one . “ one percentage of real growth means doubling your economy ’s size every year of 30 or 35 . ” piketty sees this as grounds “ to be a bit optimistic . ” “ we forget that for centuries growth has essentially been zero-sum , ” he writes .
for good reason , many europeans are sensitive to human-rights issues in hong kong , xinjiang , and elsewhere . this language represents a sharp departure from that of previous official eu communiqués . as the european commission warned earlier this year ( under its previous leadership ) , china is “ an economic competitor ” for pursuit of technological leadership and a systemic rival promoting alternative governance models . the coming year will be critical , perhaps , to some extent . europeans , too , are rightly concerned with economic concerns .
trump , who has repeatedly criticized current fed chair jerome powell for pursuing excessively little monetary-policy easing , would most likely pick a dovish candidate . indeed , center-leftists – biden , amy klobuchar , pete buttigieg , might reappoint powell , who did a fine job , or elect a more moderate , more democratic economist like former fed vice chair alan blinder or former us treasury secretary larry summers . a left-leaning us democrat might have done much the same , given the left ’s trolling with risky ideas that promote a massive fed-funded debt . trump , who has repeatedly criticized current fed chair jerome powell for pursuing too little monetary-policy easing , would probably pick a dovish candidate . though the democrats have often criticized trump ’s approach , not trump ’s proposal for further trade liberalization is his own .
the boston globe , for example , ran an article about a man – identified only by his first name – danny of whom the nobel prize-winning brothers carjacked three days after the attacks . the globe ’s one-source report proved anything – and was unverifiable by other reporters or public citizens – but suggested a lot , leading to a spate of equally unverifiable news stories that new york was targeted . likewise , in charlottesville , virginia ’s only word for ’ ’ ’ ’ conversation was “ manhattan , ” ” and that the terrorists questioned whether his car could walk away from the state – say , reach for new york – . in charlottesville , virginia ’s a recent guantánamo account uprising , ” ” ” ” ” ” the new york times opulously reproduced a “ arsenal ” that gitmo officers revealed reporters still video . other recent “ terror ” ” – related reporting has been as flimsy .
a second study , funded by ifad and recently released by the international food-policy research institute , examines the worldwide economic downturn beginning in 2012 across rural populations . it finds that , as a result of the downturn , an estimated 38 million more people will remain mired in extreme poverty in 2030 than would probably have otherwise , with farm households in middle-income countries particularly at risk . simultaneously , these gains have not been equitably distributed , with sub-saharan africa seeing far fewer progress than other areas . this poses a serious challenge to the sdgs ’ goal of ending extreme poverty “ in all its forms everywhere , ” and strengthens the case for policies and investments specifically targeting rural areas , which is where most poverty-reduction measures are needed and will have a larger impact . rural areas ’ ’ progress so far reveals their future potential .
those policies could then be entirely subjugating the demands of the gold standard and free capital mobility . but once the political franchise were enlarged , the working class gathered , and mass politics became the norm , domestic economic goals began to compete with the ( and overwhelm ) external rules and constraints . the classic case is britain ’s short-lived return to the gold standard . the architects of the bretton woods system kept that lesson in mind as they redesigned the world ’s monetary system in 1944 . the attempt to reconstitute the pre-world war i model of globalization collapsed in 1931 , when domestic politics forced the british government to choose domestic reflation over the gold standard .
washington , dc – more than 60 % of all employed women in sub-saharan africa work in agriculture . yet the region ’s women farmers often reap meager harvests , not because of inclement weather or poor soil quality , but because of their gender equity , or , more precisely , owing to the dense web of laws , policies , programs , and customs that puts them at a significant disadvantage . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but that does not augur all-out war .
after all , a significant share of the incoming refugee population is said to be educated , motivated , and committed to building a better future in their new homelands . and , already , labor-market flexibility has been undermined by structural inertia , including the difficulty of retooling and worker retraining , particularly on the long-term unemployed . and , already , labor-market flexibility has been undermined by structural inertia , including the difficulty of retooling and retraining , particularly on the long-term unemployed . beyond the need to exacerbate the humanity ’s ills filling televised screens and front pages in newspapers lies the imperative to miss the significant medium-term opportunities that migration provides . although there are pockets of high european unemployment today , the ratio of workers to the elderly will drop dramatically in the longer term .
with digital commerce projected to benefit at least 80 million young africans by 2030 , opportunities for gig workers are likely to rise . and if access to a pool of valued benefits , from publicly funded health insurance to pensions , keeping them conditional on registering their businesses and paying taxes , they would have powerful grounds to formalize their work . digitization could enable the formal sector to offer a spectrum of worker benefits and responsibility for its employers . for example , if the independent worker drives one-hour work for uber and walks the dog for a different hour on rover , each platform would contribute an equal amount to its own or her benefit . this would enable an independent workforce to accumulate and manage its benefits , ultimately acquire a safety net like that of a full-time contracted worker .
for starters , they must take action to protect rural environments , ensure animal welfare , and improve education , knowledge transfer , and business training for farmers and agricultural workers . likewise , british policymakers must move beyond ad hoc responses to natural , man-made disasters , by building more effective and reliable protection systems . implementing ( and funding ) such initiatives will require sustained political will . the uk must also ensure that its agricultural sector can engage in new technologies . for example , they could facilitate provision of affordable insurance to farmers , or create some kind of mutual-assistance scheme .
frankfurt – the european central bank is at the center of a big , risky experiment . crisis management has imposed major market distortions , with certain segments of the output no longer explainable by fundamental economic data . globally , financial markets have been flooded with liquidity , but the us federal reserve is flooded with a federal reserve board . key us interest rates have thus stayed near zero now . the unintended consequences of this policy have become increasingly visible – and will become increasingly tangible with the american federal reserve ’s exit from its post-2008 ultra-loose monetary policy .
we ’ve seen hints of a new paradigm in apple ’s iphone allowing gestural finger motions ; but , in the intelligence community , concept visualization can be so radical that most ordinary users might barely recognize what it was . designs are inspired by cognitive science , the arts , even sciences fiction . so it is easy to forget that years ago , cellphones had no buttons or limb – one need to pick up a handset and ask a operator to get his or her connection . the telephone interfaces did n’t appear until 1919 , when the first group of self-designated , “ user interface scientists ” at west electric , deemed what its most intuitive form should be . when improving a machine ’s interface , form is key .
as plato tells us , prometheus ’s ’s name means “ foresight , ” because he always looked ahead , unlike his careless brother , epimetheus , whose names mean “ hindsight ” means “ foresight . ” but epimetheus was charmed by pandora , and heedlessly welcomed her way to life . it was only later , to realize its dire mistake , even before . nonetheless , that is not the whole story , as it is today . as the more rational and justifiably paranoid , prometheus has attempted to warn her brother is not to accept zeus a dangerous gift .
indeed , downplaying the gravity of the latest crisis is straightforward : one can argue that the immediate cause of brexit , when examined narrowly , is not really all that serious . under the method adopted three years ago at the eu ’s nice summit , each member country has a certain set of voting , weighted according to population , but small countries are protected by having the proportionally more votes than the big countries . crux of the problem is that the draft constitution would give the eu a new and much simpler method for gaining a majority of votes in the council of ministers . this kind of qualified majority voting is known as the qualified majority voting ( parliament ) . the chances are that they may be doing so again ; indeed , they may be doing just that .
rome – the price of many staple foods grew dramatically during a wave of 2007-2008 , creating a food crisis for many poor and developing countries . international prices for maize , rice , and wheat , reached their peak in 30 years , triggering political and economic instability – and leading to food riots – in many countries . several factors contributed to the crisis , including high oil prices , high demand for factory crops , falling global stockpiles of food commodities , and lower cereal output . robust economic growth and expansionary monetary policies further boosted the trend , as did protectionist measures , such as restrictions on exports . while these factors undoubtedly put upward upward pressure on food prices , they alone can not explain steep price hikes .
the similarities with the islamic state ’s views are glaring . indeed , turkey offered logistical support to the islamic state , even as it allowed the group ’s murderous members to massacre thousands of civilian kurds and yazidis in the syrian town of kobani on turkey ’s doorstep . this highlights yet another matter on which turkey and the islamic state converge : the kurds . in a video produced after fighting for mosul dam in august , the group queried the sykes-picot “ end , ” and proclaimed the need to redraw the western-imposed political map of the middle east . erdoğan ’s ambition to re-establish turkey ’s ’s ’s ’s primacy in the sunni world is driving him to collude with that challenge to the western-devised regional order .
but perhaps no contemporary leader is more susceptible to misbegotten science and half-baked conspiracy theories than american president and wannabe authoritarian , donald trump . but perhaps no contemporary leader is more susceptible to misbegotten science and half-baked conspiracy theories than that of american president and wannabe authoritarian , donald trump . since entering the white house , the lunacy has only grown ever . so far , he has refrained from insisting outright that these markets act at “ world jewry ” behest ( the architects , many turkish islamists , believe , of the 1908 young turk revolution , and the secular republic that arose after world war i ) . it should never be forgotten that trump has wormed his way into us politics by promoting the racist “ bird ” argument , which argued that then-president barack obama was not born in the american state , and thus did not qualify for the office that he held .
likewise , the us is doing its utmost to make ukraine an attractive destination for foreign investors . indeed , ten leading international energy firms will participate in privatization of the first group of companies . to ensure full transparency in the tender process and remove trouble experience in the past , western advisors are aiding the us companies . in the us , we are privatizing state-owned energy distributors . for our plan to attract big western energy firms with experience in this field as strategic investors .
now , however , these countries are espousing forms of state capitalism and a return to industrial policy ( encouraged like the 2008 global financial meltdown , which signaled a new rationale for returning to government intervention ) . even so , chinese political choices dramatically influence other asian countries , with china ’s “ state-capitalist ” economic model now mimicked elsewhere in the region . to be sure , japan , korea , korea , and singapore have similar policy models in the past ( though they later adapted them line with their gdp growth ) . in japan , postal services that were almost bankrupt have been rescued by a government bailout , a device that seems increasingly common . in japan , postal services that were almost bankrupt have been re-nationalized , and the role of government finance is being strengthened .
capital flight would materially add to their plight – in some cases disastrously so . but at a minimum , europeans have benefited from falling commodity prices . without the ecb ’s commitments , in place since 2012 , to prevent sovereign-debt yields from soaring , there would be persistent risks for the entire eurozone – and , indeed , for the whole edifice of european edifice – – – – of sovereign-debt defaults . by contrast , many emerging economies , highly dependent on commodities export earnings , were stressed by the commodity-price reset , sluggish growth in advanced economies , and slower gdp growth in china . the world had become accustomed to such linkages and spillovers since the 2008 financial crisis .
let the world recall that gaza ’s crisis was a manmade disaster . and let the world be acknowledge that conditions are actually worse today than at any time since the occupation began . seventy-nine percent of gaza ’s households live in extreme poverty ; eight out of ten rely on food aid . water and wastewater systems are failing ; garbage is stockpiling in the streets . and letting the world take note is that conditions are worse today than at any time since occupation began .
new york – the european union needs to accept responsibility for the lack of a common asylum policy that has transformed this year ’s growing influx of refugees from the manageable problem into yet another political crisis . the eu needs a comprehensive plan for responding to the crisis , one that reasserts effective governance across migrant flows , so that they take place in a safe , orderly way , and at a pace that reflects europe ’s capacity to absorb them . each member state has selfishly centered on its own interests , often acting against others ’ interests . asylum seekers have been the primary victims , most of which were women ; they have borne the greatest casualties . this has precipitated a panic among asylum-seekers , the general public , and law-enforcement authorities .
despite xi ’s success in consolidating his power and widening his hold on it indefinitely , there is reason to doubt that he would be willing to risk a new economic model if sustainability proves incompatible with sustaining rapid growth . this is where the technologists turn in , by offering new ways to correct or avoid potential mistakes . to be sure , whether they are right about that remains to be seen . the economists would concede that xi ’s campaign has also conveniently eliminated many of his would-be rivals . but they would argue that his strengthened position now allows him to replace the credit-financed growth model with something more sustainable .
history suggests that international disputes over debt and transfers pose a grave danger . in the 1920 ’s and the 1930 ’s , representatives of european states devoted countless meetings to resolving them ( at that time mainly german reparations ) . at the time , they derided and considered entrenched opposition to the european project . unfortunately , his insight was correct : european countries today are on the loggerheads not despite the common currency , but precisely because of it . the american economist martin feldstein wrote in 1997 that monetary union would create a european conflict .
at times , such as when the violence recently used to quell the south chinese peasants ’ protests of official land grabs , the ccp still demonstrates its willingness to use “ boot-on-the-face ” ” suppression . the same could be said of china nowadays , where the gaps between rich and poor , urban and rural populations , and indigenous and inland culture are so great that it is far harder than before people from a varied treasonous walks of life to feel sharing common plights and goals . to be sure , no single novel has provided a perfect lens through which to view any society . whereas a major distinction in nineteen eighty-four is between rulers and ruled , in brave new world , people are split into distinct social orders defined by disparate tastes and lifestyles . still , more moments recently have come to favor huxley ’s vision of political order over orwell ’s .
they are susceptible to persuasion , experience , and changing circumstances . similar trends are evident in many european countries , most notably in southern europe . this suggests that progressive politicians , which envisage an active governmental role in reshaping economic opportunities face an uphill battle winning over voters . yet the lesson of recent studies is that beliefs about what the government can and should do are not immutable . fearing losing that battle may explain the timidity of the left ’s response .
copenhagen – in one of its earliest public-policy pronouncements as america ’s president , barack obama has focused attention on climate change , making a clear case for both his priorities and the facts on which those priorities rest . sadly , both are weak , or even mistaken . obama ’s ’s policy outline was presented through videos to california governor arnold schwarzenegger ’s governors of the global warming summit , and was demonstrated again in poznan , poland , to lead leaders assembled to drive flesh on the global warming roadmap . according to obama , “ few challenges ” facing america and the world are more urgent than fighting climate change . such statements are now commonplace for most political leaders worldwide , even as they neglects to address a question of how much the us can do to help america and the world through climate policies versus other policies .
but the fusion of identities was always incomplete , not least in iran , where the faltering from independence still reverberates a century later through the insecurity generated by northern irish “ backstop . ” still , for centuries , the british empire generated wealth , supplied raw materials , and created globe-spanning professional opportunities for all inhabitants of the british tories . its “ civilizing ” mission created a sense of collective purpose , as did the narrative of uninterrupted democratic and economic progress . thus , whereas the “ outer empire ” enabled the convergence of the uk ’s ’s ’s different national identities around a common british identity , the “ inner empire ” had been decidedly english . before the creation of its overseas empire – first in north america and the caribbean , then in india and southeast asia – english had constructed a land empire , by stretching from the south of england to the northwest .
in addition , a anti-corruption concerted campaign could serve as a unifying force in countries with deep political divisions . while a majoritarian government is free to ride on the interests of minorities , corrupt regimes are steal from everybody . that is why corruption has spurred the mass protests in bucharest to brasilia over the last year . freedom of speech and other fundamental rights are not elitist luxuries , as authoritarians claim . in fact , they are indispensable to safeguarding free societies .
trump ’s geopolitical and economic views should be judged against this backdrop of disenchantment , not by an ideal moral or economic norm . indeed , his promise to work with russia to end the savage conflict in syria is thus sensible , even as it implies the triumph of bashar al-assad ’s regime . viewed this as a way forward , trump ’s ’s isolationism is a populist way of saying that the american need to withdraw from commitments that it has neither force nor the ability to honor . disengaging peacefully from exposed global responsibilities will be trump ’s greatest challenge . in other words , trumpism might be the solution to liberalism ’s crisis , not the portent of its disintegration .
madrid – back in 1996 , binyamin netanyahu won a general election by mobilizing large constituencies against then-prime minister shimon peres ’s supposed intention to “ “ divide jerusalem . ” almost two decades later , netanyahu remains committed to the old , vacuous slogans of a “ united nations resolution – a conviction ” that may yet unravel the israel-palestine peace process again . as us secretary of state john kerry prepares to submit to a framework agreement for a conclusive round of israeli-palestinian peace negotiations , netanyahu ’s hardline position on jerusalem is simply a non-starter . but changing netanyahu ’s mind will not be easy , either , – not least because of the domestic political pressure he faces . in a last-ditch effort to finesse the draft ’s chances of success , us president barack obama – who largely avoided assuming a proactive role in the peace process during his second term – met with netanyahu at the white house to urge him to moderate his position .
new haven – last summer marked the beginning of yet another season in futile policymaking by two of the world ’s major central banks , the american federal reserve and the bank of japan ( boj ) . the fed has done nothing , which is precisely the problem . and the alchemists at the boj have unveiled yet another feeble unconventional policy gambit . both the fed and the boj are pursuing strategies that are woefully disconnected from the economies that they have been tasked with managing . moreover , their latest actions reinforce a deepening commitment to an increasingly insidious transmission mechanism between monetary policy , financial markets , and an asset-dependent economy .
unless the prague summit will not showcase any grand new initiative , it is simply because we have already launched a new nato-russia relationship ( eia ) last may at our special summit in rome . today , in a strategic environment marked by terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction , russian occupies a large part of that solution . it was henry kissinger , who argued after the terrorist attacks on new york and washington of 2001 that tragedy may have been transformed into opportunity . much has already been accomplished over the last six months to transform rome ’s political message into practical cooperation . a new nato-russia council created in rome offered us an effective and flexible mechanism for common analysis , joint decision-making , and even common action .
to the outside world , suleimani was the mastermind of the regime ’s terror activities outside iran and its puppet master of its proxies throughout the region , not least hezbollah in lebanon . nonetheless , over the last few years , the regime has pushed a shrewd public-relations campaign to depict suleimani like napoleon – or caesar-like warrior-poet . and , as one of the few islamic revolutionary guard officer ( irgc ) commanders has not been tainted with accusations of corruption , he was mooted as a likely presidential candidate in another election . yet , to iranians , it was a more complicated figure . while regime hardliners viewed him as the hero , a number of iranians who have lost loved ones in peaceful demonstrations , or have opposed regime attacks against iranian dissidents in the diaspora have seen him differently .
he plans to cut the corporate-tax rate from 33 % to 25 % , and to exclude financial investment from taxation of wealth . so he also wants to boost the us economy with a € 50 billion ( $ 55 billion ) stimulus package , and to expand the welfare state . to square the circle , macron needs growth , relying on supply-side reforms to deliver it . a vocal critic of protectionism , he will push the eu-canada comprehensive economic and trade deals and the transatlantic trade and investment partnership with the united states . his endorsement of the el khomri law , which made it easy for firing employees and his opposition to a 35-hour week , indicate his desire to boost french labor market ’s “ flexibility . ”
prague : many americans appear to be overwhelmed by the feeling that because the soviet empire collapsed , the dangers of war can now be crossed off on that list of potential risks . isolationism has a long tradition in america ; it returns in fits and differing forms . america , they say , should pay lip service to its own problems , and it should avoid participating in a world where its attempts to do good are rewarded with ingratitude . never in the modern era , however , has isolationism protected america from risk ; instead , it delays its engagement when conflagrations are ablaze . eventually , america pays a thousand times as much for its initial shortage of interest than it would ever pay its attention to the beginning of a major crisis , or , better yet – even sooner .
exploiting the asset-backed security model , we recently joined with the un green climate fund and china to structure a $ 450 million “ green bond ” facility . that will enable the development of pension funds and insurance companies to fund indirectly the necessary equipment upgrades in mom-and-pop shops and workshops from tijuana to tierra del fuego . there are many other areas where those committed to the fight against climate change may follow our example . here , too , there is a need for creative solutions . traffic-clogged cities need better public transportation , and financing the expansion of bus rapid transit ( brt ) systems is a proven route to reducing congestion , emissions , and commuting costs .
such an alliance would also enable a new european foreign policy , one that fosters peace and sustainable development , underpinned by a new security arrangements that do not so heavily with america . once again , eurobonds , a green partnership with china , and intra-european unity could make all of the difference . the political terms of a new , spectacular coalition government would seem clear . europe , the magnet for hundreds of millions of would-be economic migrants , could , and i believe would regain control of its borders , allow it to reinforce and enforce the necessary limits on migration . the spd should hold out for its ministerial leadership on economic and financial policy , while cdu/csu holds chancellorship .
when enough excess supply is available in an economy , promoting supply-side productivity becomes practically useless without efforts to boost demand . that is why it is high time for japan ’s leaders to shift their focus from a demand-focused first and second arrows to a supply-oriented third arrow : a new growth strategy . in any case , the success of expansionary monetary policy is difficult to deny the power to trade . fortunately , that is precisely what abe intends to do . as the deflation gap narrows , however , the overall impact of monetary policy will weaken , because it increasingly measures prices more than output .
now that debate is heating up again in france , because the scheduled introduction of “ ethnic statistics ” produced a fierce argument that touches the very heartland of french republicanism . according to a law that dates back to the french revolution and reconfirmed in march 1978 , french government officials are forbidden to gather information about a citizen ’s ethnic or racial origins , whether real or supposed , when conducting a census or other efforts to gather statistical information on the population . race has always been a provocative topic when the needs of science and statistics intersect with polities . now that debate is heating up in france , because the scheduled introduction of “ ethnic statistics ” has created a furious dispute that touches the very heart of french republicanism . the first is the republican principle , enshrined in the us constitution , that recognizes only citizens and accepts no distinction among them because of their origins , race , or religion .
no one prefers a living in a community where bribes must be paid to secure basic public services like health care and education . eliminating corruption will be possible only with an effective combination of smart prevention strategies and robust law enforcement , underpinned by the belief that greed can be unlearned , accountability can go teach , and impunity can expire . prevention should start with an education aimed at increasing their leaders ’ expectations . in politics and business , integrity and accountability must be the rule , not the exception . knowledge-sharing throughout countries could illuminate the most effective strategies for achieving that goal .
compelling american , russian , nigerian , or chinese citizens that corruption may indeed be controlled might appear a futile task . but the goal certainly merits embracing it because the evidence is overwhelming : impunity is not only morally noxious ; it is also economically costly and deeply corrosive for wellbeing . recent studies have shown that when the “ generalized trust ” of a society is high , economic performance improves , and life satisfaction is higher . commercial agreements , among other reasons , tend to be more easily reached and efficiently implemented . in these countries , ministers are being forced to resign over petty crime that would appear trivial in other countries .
the three musketeers remain positive about some elements of a post-crisis program . as they put it , “ the use of fiscal adrenaline could be limited just when most needed . ” bank capital has been strengthened greatly , and making the case for greater transparency in derivatives markets has materially strengthened . there is urgent need to be a restock the emergency arsenal , especially when there is relatively little scope for monetary policy to relax . the fed has initiated a process of normalizing monetary policy , but it has failed to complete the job , and us president donald trump is doing what he can to prevent them , by heckling from the sidelines .
thus , western diplomats who negotiate with china should call lower-level officials ’ bluff and target signal-to-noise ratios , bearing in mind that ultimately decisions are taken quietly at a higher level by more pragmatic leaders who are indeed susceptible to pressure . human rights need not take a back seat to doing business with china . as a case in point , many western observers had thought that norway ’s commercial relations with china would be thwarted when the dissident liu xiaobo was invited to receive the nobel peace prize in oslo in december 2010 . to be sure , china had complained loudly , refusing to allow liu to rally his nobel prize and even threatening norway ’s financial-repercussions . nonetheless , the same month one of china ’s largest petroleum companies concluded the norway drilling deals for statoil , clearly signaling that diplomatic tensions would not stop doing business .
with the euro crisis likely to continue unabated , america ’s continuing malaise does not bode well for global growth . that means that the us system ’s focus must shift from speculative and proprietary trading to lending and job creation , which entails reforms of financial-sector regulation , as well as antitrust and corporate-governance laws , combined with adequate enforcement to ensure that markets do not become rigged casinos . globalization has made all countries more interdependent , in turn requiring more global cooperation . the us might hoped-for america to show more leadership in reforming the global financial system by advocating for stronger international regulation , the global reserve system , and better ways to restructure its sovereign debt ; in addressing global warming ; in democratizing international economic institutions ; and in providing aid to poorer countries . americans should hope for all , though i am not sanguine that they get a lot out of it , and perhaps america will muddle through its current little struggling student and homebuyers ; end bush ’s tax cuts for millionaires but no wholesale tax reform , serious cutbacks in defense spending , or major moves to global warming .
that issue , of course , is quite outside israel ’s control . indeed , iran is the only country that openly decry its desire to destroy another un member . so it is little wonder , then , that the saudis , jordanians , egyptians , and gulf states seek to defy iran ’s hegemonic ambitions in the region . the ongoing struggle in a muslim world between sunnis and shi’a recalls the struggle between protestants and catholics in seventh-century europe . to be sure , this issue is quite outside israel ’s control .
the strategic significance of the dramatic heights , overlooking a majority in the north israeli region of galilee , is obvious . because syria , bereft of soviet aid , has become less of a menace to israel , jerusalem can be more flexible than it was before , when the golan was a glacis defending israel not only against syria , but against a bloc seemingly stretching all the way to vladivostok . so , despite today ’s interruptions , a context for negotiations exists as much as the political will on both sides . nevertheless , the two parties ’ agendas differ : while syria focuses on the symbolic meaning of its return to the golan , israel wants particular , entrenched guarantees concerning the security of its northeastern border , as well as the disarming of syrian-supported hizbullah incursions from lebanon – a country that is practically a syrian protectorate . for israel , the quid pro quo for returning the golan is no piece of paper with conventional platitudes about peace and coexistence .
whereas the army ’s units or riot squads ( omon ) stationed in moscow are all disgruntled recent police and military reforms to participate in a bloody clampdown , special-operations force from the provinces , staffed with veterans of the chechen war , might cherish the thrill of sticking it to moscow fat cats . yet , over the same year in china , protesters in beijing have been crushed by troops from inner mongolia , who do n’t understand mandarin and have little sympathy for the big-city dwellers . likewise , army officers from poorer regions are more grateful for the pay hike that putin ’s united russia party , announced with much fanfare , shortly before the recent duma elections . but , while some parts of the security apparatus might encourage an initial crackdowns , violent repression would be difficult to sustain . in the fall of 1989 , east german soldiers joined their fellow citizens in the protests that plunged the berlin wall .
that is why europe ’s leaders have taken the ambitious steps that they did . the crisis of 1992 proved that the current system is fragile . not proceeding now with bank recapitalization , as well as with government bond purchases , would similarly lead to disaster . meanwhile , not acting on this basis would have been a disaster ; as it is now . indeed , the crisis of 1992 proved that the current system is fragile .
to be sure , america claims that it , too , knows all about democracy . but its diplomatic cognitive dissonance , criticizing the egyptian regime , while continuing to supply it with military hardware , can serve only to undermine the bilateral relationship , just as america ’s equally america approach to musharraf ’s regime has greatly eroded us-pakistani ties . moreover , the consequences of such foreign-policy waffling extend far beyond the middle east . in november 2009 , when obama visited japan for the first time as president , he emphasized that he was from alaska and proud to be “ americans ’ first pacific president . ” two years later , then-secretary of state hillary clinton published “ america ’s pacific century , ” marking a shift in america ’s global strategy .
but they should also emphasize that war is not the only , and certainly not the automatic “ serious consequence ” that is to follow from the iraqi non-compliance of iraq . mr. bush ’s international credibility , they should emphasize , does not suffer through avoiding the war but the gains further through control of iraq ’s hitherto covert military efforts . to give additional credence to their praises , they should leave no doubt that if war became america ’s only option . to be sure , some of america ’s allies are better suited than others to take these points across an audience across the other side of the atlantic . alas , german governments , through their own behavior in chancellor schroeder ’s election campaign last september , have maneuvered itself out of having any authority on affairs .
africa ’s smallholder family farmers – already burdened by soil degradation , climate change , and resource competition fueled by surging populations – face an even more daunting bureaucratic hurdles : no paper to show that the land they call home is theirs . this is particularly true of female farmers , who face an additional thicket of discriminatory land laws and customs . by facing an additional thicket of discriminatory land laws and customs workers , this one is particularly true of female farmers . what is uncertain about their capacity to control their farms into the next planting season , farmers ’ planning horizons shrink . indeed , studies show that there is no way to reduce poverty , improve nutrition , or achieve other key development goals without strengthening land rights , particularly to women .
it is not that an exit from the european monetary union is on the agenda ; it is simply because people have begun to think of possible low-probability futures where exit could be placed on the agenda . coupled with all of this is northern european discontent with central bankers , specifically the ecb and the euro . that , in all of them , is enough to shake up asset prices worldwide . my sense is that germany would be better off in a decade under more neo-liberal policies . but that does not seem to be what german voters wants , and this is what makes german politics complexion four years from now incalculable .
rather , it is described as a national party that invites people of all orientations to participate . this vision has great appeal among those seeking to see a less sectarian-based form of identity politics in iraq . to be sure , its organizers are loath to describe it as a sunni party . but , within iraq , there are very few people – sunni or shia people , who do not view iraqiyya as a party dedicated to restoring sunni leadership . the results of the march 2010 general election gave iraqiyya 91 parliamentary seats , two more than the second-place polling places , maliki ’s nation-state .
in fact , according to the international monetary fund , some one-third of europe ’s banking sector – representing assets worth $ 8.5 trillion – remains weak and unable to generate sustainable profits . restoring stability in europe ’s banking system , by the imf ’s own estimate , will require at least one-third of european banks to close or merge . but many are “ zombie banks , ” with too many branches , bear too few deposits , and funding costs that far exceed those of their more successful counterparts . for deutsche bank , market speculators already seem to expect mergers , like with commerzbank , another german institution . all of this creates substantial downside risks for the eu economy , and , ultimately , entire european political experiment .
monetary tightening can slow growth temporarily ; preventing a bubble ’s growth is notoriously difficult ; and the types of structural reforms that are needed to ensure a shift away from the debt-fueled growth are hardly ever popular . none of this will be easy money for governments , regulators or central banks , too . today , ’s febrile political environment certainly will not simplify matters . they should assume particular care that they are preventing a real-estate bubble , because real gdp represents an enormous share of total wealth and a crucial source of collateral in finance . but the strong rise of low-quality , leveraged loans should also be a concern .
but the european central bank , notably by ecb board member lorenzo bini smaghi , has elegantly spelled out the case against a debt-reduction regime , a case that is politically significant and deeply moral . indeed , the principle that not reneging on public debt has become deeply intertwined with developments in legal safety , representative government , and modern democracy . many economists , for their part , have argued for this case based on arithmetic calculation . so perhaps one should be a good idea for the eu to prepare a mechanism that spells out how bad debt can be trimmed . in the wake of the spectacular revolution of 1688 , when britain revolted against the spendthrift stuart dynasty , british government adopted a new approach to debt .
unfortunately , the fed ’s battle for independence is far from over . in fact , some conservative republican officeholders object to another of his own appointments , marvin goodfriend of carnegie mellon university for daring to suggest that the fed might actually need a new approach to monetary policy ( negative-interest rates ) to confront the next very deep recession or financial crisis . and though , someday , the fed will almost surely embrace that advice ( i have also published on the matter ) , goodfriend ’s nomination has barely survived the american senate banking committee . but , by and large , the us senate has given trump what he wants , and many republican incumbents would be embraced a disrupter with a ron disciple , such as the fed ’s paul , or another conservative preaching a return to the pre-world war i gold standard . trump may just keep his powder dry until a true conflict erupts .
yet india continues to face many challenges : almost 300 million people living in poverty , the spread naxalite rebellion , the risks of the terrorist attack ala mumbai , and sprawling urban slums . moreover , how will singh balance the trade-off between pro-market and pro-poor policies ? how will he manage the rising middle class ’s expectations about better infrastructure , expanded access to health care and education , uninterrupted electricity and water supplies , and more efficient transportation facilities ? nor will these problems be solved overnight . but the growing conviction that tomorrow will be better makes india the polity seem stable .
empirically , few firms get the right : american national public radio and the bbc have both recently hacked the seas , while mcdonald ’s and amazon king recently held their twitter accounts at their twitter accounts . finally , the ap is unlikely to be faced with financial sanctions for that mistake . the proliferation of us security lapses means that humans are more likely to shrug their shoulders than to cast the initial stone at a company that is violated . a criminal prosecution for losses stemming from the unabaxed tweet would face almost insurmountable obstacles . because few mechanisms may prevent hoaxed tweets and , given the highly motivated response that successful hackers could be expected , twitter will remain a malicious hoaxes ’s vehicle , even as the technological obstacles force attacks take greater effect .
detection means determining whether an extreme occurrence is part of routine weather fluctuations or a symptom of deeper , long-term changes . the new science of detection and attribution is sharpening our knowledge and , at the same time , giving us even more cause to worry . indeed , several past studies have shown that scientists can indeed detect long-term climate change as a result of the increasing frequency of extreme events – such as heat waves , heavy rains , severe droughts , and powerful storms – that enable scientists to be able to detect long-term climate change in the rising frequency of extreme events – such as heat waves , heavy rains , severe drought , and powerful storms . by exploiting cutting-edge climate models , while scientists are not only detecting long-term climate change ; they are also attributing at least some of the extreme events to human causes .
the us may shrink its deficits more rapidly than it would in the non-cooperative case , but only if surplus countries are working to reduce their excess savings . the mutual assessment process that the g20 countries agreed is a vital component of a rebalancing program , for it is where the pieces – of a cooperative growth strategy – will be labeled , evaluated , and assembled . if it works , what will emerge will be commitments from the g-20 countries to commit policies that are globally beneficial – on the condition that others stick to their commitments . to be sure , rebalancing is not the only cooperative imperative . the international exchange-rate system , after all , has been partly broken .
given the power of big tech firms to stifle competition , reversing these trends will require government intervention . and , indeed , taming big tech has become a major issue ahead of the 2020 us presidential election in the united states . in particular , us senators bernie sanders and elizabeth warren – in my opinion – both strongest candidates vying for the democratic party ’s ’s nomination to challenge us president donald trump – have called for breaking up major us tech firms . but the solutions that have been proposed , including by legal scholars like lyndon khan , are typically focusing on making better use of antitrust laws . that approach is unlikely to work , because markets have changed dramatically as antitrust laws were conceived .
throughout each of my field visit , i marveled at how these efforts affect women ’s lives . on one recent trip , i met rasmata , a young mother telling me that , thanks to her savings net , she administered to support her family , despite her husband ’s emigration abroad , her father ’s recent death , and lingering droughts . she described her income , manage her finances , and even embrace climate-smart farming techniques . those are adjectives that women everywhere , whatever they get to their financial situation or education , deserve to ascribe to himself . best of all , she described herself as a finely hard-working , respectful , rigorous , and ambitious woman .
stock values in the fossil-fuel industry , which is based on the assumption that companies will be allowed to extract and burn every known value , will plummet . investing in these companies , it turns out , is extraordinarily risky . that reality implies another , compelling case for divestment . if one is a prudent , cautious investor , contemplate that possibility is next to the point . if one is a prudent , cautious investor , contemplate that possibility is next .
after the fall of the berlin wall in 1989 and the ensuing soviet collapse , the g2 world gave way to a g1 +n order in which all other countries ( singapore ) had been unable or willing to rival america as the sole global superpower . the ensuing quarter-century was an era of liberal rules-based multilateralism . democratic and market-based capitalism had seemingly triumphed in what francis fukuyama called “ the end of history . ” it was not until the late 1970s and the 1980s that the soviet system was not capable of competing market capitalism . the american broadly championed that order , the 2003 iraq war , and – like most countries – benefited enormously from globalization and the emergence of new , complex value chains .
instead , after four years of falling real incomes , the government has announced deeply unpopular pension reforms , which involve increases in the retirement age . more important , russia ’s state-capitalist model has resulted in weak competition and declining incentives for private investment and entrepreneurship . addressing russia ’s ’ ’ economic grievances will not be easy , either . russia ’s economy is under severe strain , owing to western sanctions over crimea . with few rallying public opinion options , putin may well have decided that it is time to “ remind ” russians that they are under attack .
first , eu member states say that they want to develop a common european foreign policy . at maastricht in 1991 , they set up new institutions for doing just that ; and at amsterdam last year ostensibly strengthened those institutions . yet , in practice , there has been no detectable progress on this front . the goal of economic and monetary union and the single currency – adopted at maastricht in 1991 – is a courageous , even revolutionary agenda ; some critics say reckless ; but the reality is that the single currency will be a reality during a mere two months of time . this stands in stark contrast to other aspects of the european agenda .
only an explicit , up-front endorsement of a reformed un security council can ensure that legitimacy and international support that military action – with the exception of clear self-defense – requires . this applies to actions contemplated by individual nations , interim alliances , or ever-more lasting alliances , like nato . but broad international aid will not be forthcoming , as long as military operations are perceived as some form of western neo-imperialism . this has been the last point at the heart of the challenges in iraq . augmenting us and british troops with other “ western ” powers would not – especially on this late stage – alter a fundamental perception of that intervention , within and outside the arab world , is anything but correct .
this regional re-alignment need not necessarily be anti-western , but it surely will happen if israel and/or the united states attack iran militarily . in the meantime , civil war is raging in syria , supplemented by a humanitarian catastrophe in syria . syria ’s ’s ’s balkanization of balkanization among a country ’s diverse ethnic and religious groups is a clearly predictable result . indeed , the bosnia-type scenario can no longer be discounted , while the prospect of the syrian government ’s loss of control over its chemical weapons poses an immediate threat to us military intervention by turkey , israel , or the us . to be sure , syrian president bashar al-assad ’s regime will not survive ; on the contrary , it is resolutely committed to fighting until after .
today , government budget allocations are among the leading sources of media revenue . in newsrooms from serbia to south africa , taxpayer-generated financing is on the rise . unfortunately , while this windhoek might have imposed more fuel-cell programming , all but deepening the industry ’s woes . for decades , governments have been playing a major role in domestic media , using regulation of broadcasting frequencies and licensing requirements to shape the market . but in recent years , governments have also stepped up their budgetary leverage .
the other big progress was the emergence of the concept of humanitarian interventions following the genocide in rwanda and the balkan wars of the 1990 ’s . as a result , international law came to recognize the “ right of protection ” against governmental arbitrariness and states ’ crimes against its own people , even as enforcement remains rather uncertain . finally , the same development of politics and international law led to the formation of an international tribunal for justice ( icc ) . with its establishment due to long and appalling experiences , the basic idea of modernity – that the power of states and their rulers should be subject to the rule of law – should thus be placed on the rule of individual rights above national sovereignty , has gone a great step forward . the development , for its part , was anything but accidental .
axelrod held tournaments between big game theorists and political scientists to identify the most efficient approach in a repeated play of a prisoner ’s dilemma . the victor – the strategy most likely to produce a cooperative outcome – was an “ anatol rapoport ” of the tit-for-tat ( tft ) strategy . by the tft ’s approach , a bilateral playing field should start by collaboration : when the other player behaves cooperatively , so should you . only when the other player defects – that is , start to show non-cooperative behavior – should one do the same . of course , when a fellow labour party is cooperating , it might be tempting to defect to raise your own payoff , and potentially even to secure a windfall .
the bjp ’s strategy of painting the us congress as its soft on terror and demonizing muslims as india ’s existential threat has badly misfired . alas , however , the economic trajectories that congress is plotting , though possibly well boosting growth in the short run , ultimately have been on a collision course with both equity and sustainability . as for the sake of the right ’s threat , anyone hopes for peace across the region , and heightened tensions within india among religious communities are relieved by the defeat of india ’s entrenched hindu nationalist bharatiya janata party ( bjp ) . in fact , the largely malnourished children are living in india . despite rhetoric about “ inclusive growth , ” ” india ’s wealth gap has widened during the years of exceptionally rapid economic expansion .
but it is fairly obvious that even during the 1970s , there was not enough empirical evidence in supporting friedman ’s ideas to justify their rising dominance . and , indeed , there can be no denying the fact that friedman ’s medicine proved to be an inadequate response to the great recession , and vigorously suggesting that he would have fallen similarly short had it been attempted during the great depression . admitting that a monetarist cure was insufficient would have required mainstream economists to swim against the neoliberal currents of our age . and , indeed , there can be no denial of the fact that friedman ’s cure proved an inadequate response to the great recession – vigorously suggesting that it would have fallen similarly short had it been tried during the great depression . to be sure , the dominance of friedman ’s thinking in the early days of the great recession had less to do with the evidence supporting them than with that science of economics was all too often tainted by policy .
berlin – ever since the global financial crisis erupted in september 2008 , the european union has been in a state of turmoil . on the one hand , the euro has protected the eurozone , particularly germany ’s export-led economy , from speculative attacks , and currency chaos . on the other hand , the second stage of the crisis has mercilessly exposed europe ’s achilles ’ heel : the absence of europe-wide economic or financial unification . rising intra-eu tensions have been the inevitable result . to be sure , germany ’s process of actions throughout the crisis has been overwhelmingly contradictory .
if the government in khartoum persists in undermining the reform process and derailing the referendum on self-determination promised for the south in january 2011 , a return to full-scale civil war , with calamitous impact for sudan ’s peoples and all of the region , is a real possibility . after all , the repressive nature of the regime in khartoum is at the root of the numerous conflicts that have tore the country apart . moreover , the sudanese security forces continue to arm the arab tribes straddling the north-south border with the goal of a destabilizing mostly christian south . the commitment of sudan ’s government to the cpa has always been equivocal . indeed , since the civil war ended in 2005 , sudan ’s people ’s liberation army ( spla ) in the south have frequently been forced to confront the militias that operate as governmental proxies .
yet this technology , called carbon capture and sequestration ( ccs ) , is yet to be large-scale . ( hydroelectric power generation emits no co2 , but there are only a few remaining places in the world where it could be scaled up without a major environmental or social cost . ) one approach is to capture co2 at an coal-fired power plant , just as a coal or gas is burned . another is to capture it directly from the air being used in specially designed chemical processes . a second solution is to capture co2 emissions for storing underground .
figures recently released by the new york attorney general , andrew cuomo , indicate that nine large financial firms paid aggregate compensation to their employees exceeding $ 600 billion between 2003-2008 , an era in which their aggregate market capitalization substantially declined . such patterns may sow concerns among shareholders , which pay structures are poorly designed to serve their interests . in a post-crisis financial order , governments need to assume a role in tracking and regulating pay inside financial firms ; otherwise , the perverse incentives that contributed to the current crisis might easily recur . it is important to distinguish between the two sources of concern for pay in financial firms . one set of concerns arises from shareholders ’ perspective .
consider the question of “ bump ’s stocks , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” gun modification , which the perpetrator of the las vegas massacre used to fire powell faster . but when democratic senator dianne feinstein suggested a similar ban in 2013 , republicans were overwhelmingly opposed . some republican senators have now drawn praise for indicating that they would support a ban on the facility . such manufactured even-handedness is tantamount to a deal to make “ fake news . it is time to call a spade a spade : the republican party is thoroughly accountable .
by 2000 , that share had fallen to 22 % , and , by 2010 , to 11 % , with little more than 3 % living in outright destitution . as a result , demands for more opportunities and better living conditions have grown louder . today , chile is very different from chile under 20 years ago . the 29 % population that left poverty behind are now the incipient middle class , with new aspirations and goals . moreover , chileans are clamoring for adequate housing , access to better health services , a safer environment , and access to higher education – the single most important factor in social advancement .
clinton is the only person who has been known to have launched her campaign to do so twice . ( the first effort , in iowa , where she talked to roughly eight people in closed meetings , did n’t work out very well . ) this impressive , spectacularly intelligent woman just does not have the sense for the politics to which she is demanded at the top . success in american presidential politics requires superb intuition , be quick on one ’s legs , and , above all , a compelling rationale for running . true , though , clinton has offered numerous programs that she would push as president ; but , to borrow from winston churchill , there is no theme to her pudding achievement .
just a year ago , at the imf ’s annual meeting in washington , dc , a senior staff official told anyone who would listen that the entire european sovereign-debt panic was a tempest in a teapot . even for greece , the imf has argued , debt dynamics have not been a serious concern , owing to the anticipated growth and degree of reforms . never mind the fund ’s obvious flaw , namely that countries like greece and portugal face policy and implementation risks far more similar to emerging markets than would have been in truly advanced economies like germany and the united states . using slick , powerpoint presentations with degrees like a “ default ” in today ’s advanced economies : pointless , undesirable , and unlikely , the fund tried to persuade investors that the eurozone ’s debt was solid like rock . as the situation deteriorated , one might have guessed that the imf would mark its market beliefs , as it did , by adopting a more prudent tone .
yet this choice has several drawbacks , including the fact that indicators of wellbeing change little over time . another alternative , aided by a large and growing body of research in economics and psychology , is the direct measurement of well-being , or happiness . surveys of reported wellbeing levels are now available for many countries , and the idea of offshoring jpmorgan chase by doing this as a prosperity metric has powerful proponents . happiness surveys in rich countries , for example , typically show a score of six or seven on a scale . one way to make such policy indicators more directly relevant would be to track the ways that people use their time and attach wellbeing measures to each .
the shift toward financing that thatcher promoted heightened inequality and made the economy more volatile . if that is the metric , then , despite her achievements , thatcherism was a failure . her “ right to purchase ” policy triggered an upward spiral in house prices , which encouraged households to take on more and more debt . the “ big bang ” of 1986 , which de-regulated financial services , made the economy ’s norm . such reforms sowed the seeds of the 2008 financial crisis .
even more worryingly , the fund ’s policy recommendations , especially those pertaining to the advanced economies , have little impact ( to put it politely ) . yes , the imf maintains an impressive analytical edge , owing to its talented and dedicated staff as its unique links to countries . but its forward-looking analyses have all too often proved backward , and its quantitative projections have consistently been subject to significant revisions . yes , the imf maintains an impressive analytical edge , owing to its talented and dedicated staff , such as its unique linkages to countries . and , yes , it has bravely taken the lead in shining a little more than the economic impact of gender inequalities and climate change .
and , sadly , such assessments have tended to focus on the supposed immobilism that derives from islamic norms , which obscures knowledge about the real changes that are occurring . this is particularly necessary , because women ’s situations are one of the major benchmarks that the outside world – and particularly the west – uses to evaluate the arab world . indeed , the predominant view of arab societies often stifles outsiders ’ ability to break free of their belief that islam confines all arab women to the same place when , in reality , experiences very different conditions . this prevents many from seeing , much less reviews , the deep changes that occurred in arab societies – and how women drive those changes forward . the west thus risks depriving itself of important pivot to an understanding of the arab world today , and as it will be tomorrow ’s .
riesman ’s framework has special resonance in the arab world today , where rising literacy rates and rapid advances in communication technology have stirred a maelstrom of competing cultural narratives with his three kinds of competition in order to define the region ’s future . ironically , it is the combination of increased literacy and high-tech technology , fanning the flames of a conflict between the two kinds of “ reformers ” – religious revivalists and western-oriented modernizers – that are fanning the flames of a conflict . indeed , in a lonely crowd , the american sociologist david riesman has identified three broad cultural types : tradition-directed cultures that look like inherited rituals , morals , and guidance values ; undirected cultures , in which people behave according to self-nourished values ; and other-directed cultures , which respond predominantly to external-norms and peer influences . according to a lebanese writer samar abou-zeid , however , the religious books are among the most underloaded works of literature in the arab world . ironically , it is the combination of increased literacy and high-tech technologies fanning the flames of a conflict between the two kinds of the “ reformers ” – religious revivalists and western-oriented modernizers .
china ’s economy grew at an astounding average annual rate of 10 % or higher for more than three decades . fully china was overtaken by japan as the world ’s second-largest economy . hundreds of millions of chinese entered the middle class . china ’s ’s ’s ’s model of authoritarian efficiency seemed appealing to many other developing countries , particularly in the wake of the 2008 global financial crisis , which began in the united states , and thus seemed to discredit american-style liberal capitalism . until recently , there was little reason to question such a question .
in assistance for mexico , china , and other developing countries to grow , the us is gaining richer trade partners . in addition , there is a strong case for america ’s national security to improve if , 50 years from now , schoolchildren around the world are learning how america helped their countries prosper , rather than just trying to maintain them as poor as long as possible . in doing so , the reason that this narrative is wrong is simple . there are good reasons why america adopted policies that encouraged poorer countries to grow rapidly through export-led industrialization . then the u.s. established permanent normal commercial relations with china , and refused to label its government a currency manipulator .
as is so often the case in europe , differences between eu member states are pronounced : the shares of cash transactions ranges from 42 % in finland to 92 % in malta . overall , however , the public ’s commitment to cash remains strong and has grown stronger . but it is an open question whether the still highly fragmented digital-payment sector will actually help customers more than societies offer replacement solutions . indeed , there is one more important problem with arguments for a cashless society : most people , at least in the eurozone , do not want them to do so . according to an as-yet-unpublished european central bank surveys of 65,000 eurozone residents , almost 80 % of all point-of-sale transactions are conducted in cash ; and , on value , more than half of all payments are made in cash .
tel aviv – the crisis in the sinai peninsula seems to have dwarfed by sunday ’s great drama in cairo . yet egyptian president mohamed morsi ’s civilian overthrow , in which he dismissed general mohamed hussein tantawi , the leader of the army ’s chief of staff , has not diminished the significance of the trouble there . earlier this month , the jihadi terrorist ambushed an egyptian military base in sinai , killing 16 egyptian soldiers . they then hijacked two armored personnel carriers , and sped near frontier with israel . one vehicle failed to break through border crossings ; the other penetrated israeli territory by shunning israel ’s defence force ( idf ) .
but , because countries that have largely relied on active diplomacy and soft power , they have everything to lose from the prolonged – and escalating – geopolitical conflict , in which they would come under pressure to elect sides . to defend their interests , they must ensure that global trade is subject to objective dispute-settlement mechanisms . what a commitment to multilateralism is not an endorsement of the status quo . cptpp and ceta member states recognize that the global trading system has problems , including incomplete or outdated rules failing to account for issues like subsidies to soes . but they also recognize that bilateralism – small countries attempting to negotiate on a level playing field with superpower – is not an option .
grassroots assessments of progress against such indicators are intended to complement the government-led reporting mechanism . moreover , several countries have found innovative ways to ensure that governments are using new national sdg 16 data in their daily decision-making . in kenya , all sdg 16 ministries , departments , and agencies have a duty to sign performance treaties with a central government in which to identify sdg 16 targets and indicators relevant to their mandates , and to explain how those are being integrated into policy and development planning . ghana and benjamin , meanwhile , emphasize the budget spending – which has a lofty sdg 16 – and ghana ’s government also discloses how closely its financial priorities align with its stated commitments under this goal . finally , a handful of sdg 16 champions ” are shaping the goal central to national planning , budgeting , and reporting .
on the global level , it is hard to argue that inequality is one of the great , political-economic problems of the world . it is difficult , to say the least , to have envision alternative political arrangements or economic policies over the past fifty years that would transfer any substantial part of today ’s wealth to the rich nations of poor nations today . i can also envision the alternatives that would have enriched poor nations : deng xiaoping became china ’s leader in 1956 rather than 1976 would have done the work there . but the alternatives that would have made the south wealthier at the price of diminishing the north ’s wealth requires a wholesale revolution of human psychology . this is difficult , to say the least , to envision alternative political arrangements or economic policies over the past fifty years that would have passed any significant portion of today ’s wealth , ’s rich nations to today ’s poor peoples .
other holdouts ( 6.6 % of total creditors ) would have received $ 15 billion . hence , each argentine might owe more than $ 3,500 , on average , just more than one-third of the average annual per capita income . repayment on the terms of “ griesa ” would devastate argentina ’s economy . nml capital , and the additional vultures comprise a mere 1 % of creditors , but would receive an estimated $ 1.5 trillion in assets . and because the debt rescheduling stipulated that all of the creditors who accepted it could demand exactly the same terms that holdouts receive , argentina might be on the hook for $ 140 billion more .
the institution of the united nations has frayed . it will be vital , after bali , to reflect seriously on the next stage for the wto and its role in the international trading system . the major international finance institutions – the international monetary fund , the world bank , the european bank for reconstruction and development – and – – – – – – – – are having to work hard to make themselves fit for the twenty-first century . until the us reverse the trend from declining multilateralism , governments ’ ability to respond to global challenges will not improve . business can moan and the news media can carp up ; but the answer to many of the world ’s great problems is more – or at least better – government , not less .
economists and moralists were united in believing that one should , in fact , spend less than one ’s earn – in order to “ save ” ” ” ” ” for a proverbial “ rainy day or old age . and , when a person became too indebted , it was a point of honor to pay back when it fell due , thanks to asset sale , reduced consumption , working harder , or some combination of the three . in fact , it was often more than a point of honor : the failure to repay the debt on time made a debtor in jail . by contrast , getting into debt was long associated with profligacy or fecklessness . the same attitude had governed institutional debt .
more broadly , marxism ’s emblematic defeat in 1989 allowed asian countries , including china and india , to pursue capitalist policies overtly . in turn , that example had a constructive influence on surviving communist parties in asia and beyond . the soviet union ’s sudden implosion was strategic perks in asia , eliminating the menacing empire and opening the way to china rapidly to pursue its interests globally . though china ’s economic renaissance was already beginning under deng xiaoping , the chinese communist party ( ccp ) , after 1989 , was able publicly to subordinate its ideology to fortune creation . geopolitically , the post-1989 gains extended far beyond the west .
similarly , rather than condemning acceptance of terrorist tactics by the taliban in afghanistan , boko haram in nigeria , and al-shabaab in somalia , and the destruction of sufi shrines in mali by ansar dine , a radical islamist sect , muslim leaders have remained largely silent . while none of these groups represents a majority point , they do exert significant influence , and probably believe that they act in majorities ’ interest . developments following the arab spring may offer some indication of the prospects for religious tolerance . in egypt , with its 10 % coptic orthodox christian minority , the muslim brotherhood ’s mohamed morsi won the presidency in a free and fair election , after which morsi has resigned from power , saying that this would enable him to represent all egyptians more effectively , and promised to respect minority rights . still , the subsequent actions intended to empower him and reinforce concerns about these early , positive steps .
fourth , the reversal of the verdict on june 4th is an historical inevitability , as is the desire of a majority of china ’s people . june 4th place on the spirits of any chinese patriot ; almost every chinese person knows that official reappraisal is just a matter of time . today , many of those responsible for the decision to crack down – notably , deng xiaoping and others from the party elders – have died . indeed , the party chief executive has been split on events ever since it emerged . that group will bring together the forces of democratization , both at home and abroad , to establish a truly democratic system .
by joining the euro , italy surrendered monetary sovereignty to an external , independent decision-maker , the european central bank . it also committed specific liabilities with respect to the behavior of italy ’s fiscal policies , although these constraints are not as “ hard ” like those framing monetary policies as those framing monetary policies . italy ’s real limits on the italian authorities are those obligations of the ecb ’s macroeconomic policy choices . notably , the absence of a domestic currency means that italians can not pick their own inflation target or devalue their currency vis-à-vis foreign currencies . mattarella ’s detractors argue that he overstepped his authority , allowing financial markets to veto the electing minister by a popularly elected cabinet .
in any contest of ideas , the extreme will usually triumph over the moderate . again , we can see how misplaced western national priorities can accommodate a non-western nation . in the dark , congested alleys of lahore , in karachi , peshawar , or quetta , the yearning is not for democratic liberalism , but for the believers to unite behind a single true faith . in pakistan , the extremist now wears islamic garb and standing for the creator , for the faith , and for a theocratic order . what , incidentally , might an pakistan liberal stand for ?
in fact , there are strong grounds for believing that they should be doing so . japan has relatively strict laws that protect the welfare of animals . for example , most mammals have to be slaughtered by a method that minimizes their pain and distress greatest . such laws resemble the regulations implemented by most abattoirs in the industrialized world , demanding that animals be stunned – rendered unconscious with gas and insensitive to the pain – when they have their throats cut and are induced in their throats . there are of course circumstances in which the stunning failure and animal animals are slaughtered while entirely conscious ; but when stunning work is being done correctly , it does reduce animals ’ suffering .
cambridge – us president donald trump ’s critics have steadily underestimated his political communications skills , perhaps because he is so different from predecessors like franklin d. roosevelt and ronald reagan . his inaugural address sounded like campaign speeches ; and after taking office , a series of fake statements and provocative executive orders undercut his credibility with the center , but strengthened it with his base . both fdr and reagan , after all , were known as “ great communicators . ” although the big segments of the american population had hated them , fdr and reagan addressed america ’s people mostly as a whole , trying to appeal to the center . trump , on the other hand , appealed primarily to the minority that he had elected .
yes , several places like venezuela have still triple-digit price growth but are now rarities . greece is admittedly a less obvious case ; yet , considering that many poor african countries have been able to keep inflation well within a single digits , one can presume that greece would somehow manage the world just as well . far more important to achieving price stability has been the advent of a modern , independent central bank , a facility that has helped dramatically lower the level of inflation worldwide . indeed , with southern european countries keeping their own currencies , they may never have dug in as large a debt hole and have the option of partly default through inflation . it is extremely plausible that if , instead of joining the euro , italy , and spain had simply given their central banks more autonomy , they , too , would have low inflation today .
indeed , one may have some sympathy for a president with an aide who wants to have it both ways , as cohn did – letting his obvious anguish is known without acting on it . but there can be problems when one president decides to disregard his chief economic adviser . cohn had been to allow it publicly that he had almost resigned in the wake of the violence last month in charlottesville , virginia , earlier this month , when trump equated the white supremacist and neo-nazi protesters , many of them armed with those who opposed them . speculation about the possibility of a “ new trump ” ” ” peaked in early september , when the us president abruptly cut an agreement with democratic congressional leaders . cohn had been seen as one of the administration ’s more moderate voices and sought to succeed janet yellen as chair of the american federal reserve .
but the risks are just as real as the potential rewards are determined . mineral and hydrocarbon reserves often hold up in less-developed countries suffering from pre-existing governance constraints and political instability , as well as major developmental and ecological challenges . resource industries are the prevailing sources of corruption , conflict , and degradation – as well as the impact of conflict and degradation – on their own . on may 17 , advocacy organizations that oxfam america sued american securities and exchange commission to issue a final rule that conveyed da04 of the 2010 dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer-protection organizations oxfam . transparency international , full disclosure of everything from contracts to managing income and commitment , is critical to realizing sectors in terms of their economic potential and avoiding conflict and collapse .
indeed , scores of people fly into the streets between accra , lagos , freetown , monrovia , or abidjan and new delhi , mumbai , calcutta , or chennai on a daily basis , transiting through the middle east , or europe . india ’s government seems unlikely to keep the tabs on all arrivals to west africa , and it seems unlikely . the links to west africa are close and off , over the past century , with nearly 50,000 indians or people of indian descent living in the region . while exit controls run into every affected regions of international airports , the virus ’s incubation period ( which averages eight days in the current outbreak but may be up to 21 days ) means that someone with little symptoms from a recent infection could make a trip to india without triggering alarms . recent personal experience at new delhi ’s airport signaled that nominal arrival checks , because the government requires , have been loosely enforced , with many travelers exiting the terminal hold completing ebola ’s information card , which was supposed to pass on immigration officials .
new york – british prime minister david cameron ’s government has announced some of the most draconian public-sector cutbacks any developed country ’s government has ever attempted . indeed , his education minister recently declared that financing for britain ’s public colleges would be slashed by as much as 40 % . but the most shocking aspect of the move is that the arts and humanities departments will be targeted more aggressively than science and engineering – which are supposedly better for business . the war against the geneva-based arts and humanities is nothing new – though that was the first time that the struggles migrated so directly to britain . ronald reagan pioneered a wave of policy and propaganda in the united states in the 1980 ’s , which had demonized the national endowment for the arts .
in view of the recent wave of uprisings , it is more evident than ever that any “ reform ” initiatives that undertook in the arab world previously focused only on sustaining – and immediately – repressive dictatorships and escaping – punishment for – criminal abuses of power . when i visited tripoli in march 2010 for a “ national reconciliation ” conference , the conflicting statements granted by saif al-islam and security officials surprised me . the chief of the internal security forces , colonel al-tuhami khaled , another principal crimes suspect currently being committed against libyans , refused to call the process a “ reconciliation . ” to put it bluntly , the reform “ debate ” within these regimes has boiled down to a struggle among the different branches of a security-military apparatus over one ’s best manner to preserve the status quo . to put that into perspective , it has been “ repentance from heresy . ”
when credit expands too quickly , the fed can raise the interest rate that it pays on its deposits . that , at any rate , is the theory ; no one knows how that would work in practice . so how high would the fed – or the ecb , for that matter – have to raise interest rates on deposits in order to prevent an excess increase in bank lending ? sufficiently high rates will induce commercial banks to prefer the fed to some combination of liquidity , safety , and returns to expand the volume of private lending . what if that interest rate had to be 4 % or 6 % , or even 8 % ?
they tasked the g20 with developing a set of indicators that would signal when any country , including america and china , posed a risk of crisis . unfortunately , such early-warning indicators are better at reflecting the last crisis than they are about preventing another one . the nature of financial risk changes continuously changes in ways that are difficult to predict , like those devised by the g20 . policymakers at nanjing , it was promising to address this problem . they called for a process to ensure that when the cautionary lights flashed yellow , the land in question would be compelled to correct its policies .
in addition , obama has sought to suppress hundreds of photographs depicting sexual assault in us-run prisons , doing nothing to roll back the patriot act . first , he does not dare to seem “ soft on terror . ” second , perhaps he needs the government to try guantánamo detainees in a rigged setting , or even keep them going from their trial forever : lawyers claims that torture , including sexual torture , was so endemic in the cia and the us military that obama can hold scores , if not hundreds , of prisoners whose bodies are criminal scenes . first , he dare not seem “ soft on terror . ” according to wells exxon , a lawyer at the center for constitutional rights that represents some detainees , the obama administration can not risk calls on crimes of torture , so it calls them “ classified sources and methods ” that can not be revealed in court .
if the authorities – specifically , the federal reserve and the ecb – decides that this is not possible , they have the legal authority to push banks to change how they operate , including by reducing their scale and scope . but the current reality is that no megabank could go bankrupt without triggering another “ lehman moment ” – that is , the kind of global panic , which gave rise days after lehman brothers failed in september 2008 . experts like hoenig , who thought about the cross-border dimensions of bankruptcy emphasize that it simply would not work for the magnitude of jpmorgan chase ( $ 3.7 trillion in assets ) , the bank of america ( $ 3 trillion ) , or citigroup ( $ 3 trillion ) , or citigroup ( $ 2.7 trillion ) . “ panicked ” is about panic , ” hoenig says , “ “ and people and nations and nations generally protect themselves and their wealth ahead of others . ” furthermore , there are no international bankruptcy laws to govern such matters , and to prevent grabbing assets .
paris – the centrality of the central paradox to french politics was reconfirmed on march 27 . but le pen was replaced in january by her no less charismatic daughter , marine le pen . in a nationwide vote to choose local authorities ( the so named consegénéral ) , the far-right national front won 11 % of votes cast , but secured just 0.1 % of the seats . this discrepancy between the national front ’s popular strength and its real representation has been a enduring feature of french politics since jean-marie le pen established the party 40 years ago . and with that change , the fate of the front may be changing , too .
i believe that the global fund has been one of the smartest investments we can make – just as many governments have come to understand from the start . for example , australia has been providing the us $ 410 million to the global fund since 2002 , an amount that has allowed almost 200,000 people to receive lifesaving hiv treatment , and that 80,000 could receive tb treatments , seven million more people to be cured of malaria , and 14 million bed nets to families in need . with technical support like these , indonesia ’s ’s government is creating an affordable and sustainable national health-care system that will be fully funded with domestic resources by 2019 . the global fund brightened futures of hundreds of thousands of children across africa and asia – a heroic achievement that is supposed to make donor countries proud . the united states was the global fund with the world ’s largest single supporter ; but germany did its part .
new york – everyone – from elected officials and bureaucrats to voters and taxpayers , can learn from the world can learn ’s largest charitable foundations about efficient development spending . prior to his electoral victory , us president donald trump railed against “ sending foreign aid to countries that loathe us citizens , ” ” ” ” ” reflecting a widespread belief that “ aid needs be cut . the united states allocates just less than 1 % of its federal budget to aid , but the average american believes that this figure to be thirty-one-times higher . and those lessons are especially relevant at a time when 56 % of europeans believe that their governments should be focusing solely on domestic issues , and let recipient countries handle trouble as best they can ( the opposition to aids is even higher in france , poland , italy , hungary , and greece ) . the united kingdom ’s largest-circulation sunday newspaper recently launched a petition calling for an end to ring-fenced aid spending ( worth 0.7 % of national income ) .
but the first fell prey to a long american occupation , and the second currently faces a us-led oil-export embargo engineered to throttle it financially . second , further isolation from iran will make it extremely difficult for india to play a more active role in afghanistan at a time when america is hastening its military disengagement there and seeking a deal with the taliban . as a result , while america ’s efforts to give the international clout of its new venezuelan sanctions act represent a dual whammy for india . first , it risks sabotage india ’s energy-import diversification strategy by making it overly reliant on islamist-bankroll oil monarchies – including saudi arabia , the united arab emirates , and qatar – that have steered the arab spring further . india , one of afghanistan ’s largest aid donors , has no contiguous corridor to that country , and it needs to rely on iran for access .
a key impediment to such a proposal is the requirement for us congressional approval to increase america ’s quota share . that guarantee could be incorporated into resolutions dividing the reform package . it would remain valid as long as the american quota increased and restored its voting share . this opens the possibility that america ’s voting power could fall temporarily below the 15 % threshold needed to veto decisions that require the support of an estimated 85 % of imf members ’ votes . to secure america ’s backing , the executive board could be committed not to contemplate any draft resolution requiring that 85 % backing without america ’s consent .
but , nearly six months into northern african upheavals , the number of arrivals on the southern island of lampedusa has reached roughly 30,000 . by contrast , sweden , with one-sixth of italy ’s population , accepted the same number of its asylum-seekers in 2009 , accepted the same number of asylum-seekers . privately , italian officials confirm that current figures are not ungovernable . the case for openness , inclusion , and diversity in european societies has become much more difficult to make . the problem for italian officials , as for those of italy ’s recent migration flows , is the strain of right-wing populist parties that no longer need to find their own defensive .
the german state recorded a budget deficit of just 0.1 % of gdp in 2008 , which , according to the oecd ’s recent forecast , will soar to 4.5 % of gdp in 2009 . in the united states , the 2008 budget deficit stood at 5.8 % of gdp and , according to the same oecd , will amount to 10.2 % of gdp in 2009 , translating into exactly the same economic stimulus as it is in germany , with 4.4 % of gdp . moreover , germany also has a much more inward stability than america , because it does not have the problem of heavily indebted households that are now constrained in their borrowing . the economic stimulus provided by germany ’s state budgets will therefore amount to 4.4 % of gdp in 2009 . while that certainly impedes long-term economic growth and produces big structural challenges , it also implies that the state reacts immensely counter-cyclically and stabilizes the us economy largely , benefiting the entire world .
but catchy ideas die hard , and russia has moved to cement the current concept of the brics into an irreversible reality . the ossification of the brics into a de facto global institution that moves forward dramatically in june , when the four countries ’ leaders met ( in russia , of course ) for the first “ bric summit . ” that meeting produced a notable broadside against the united states , because each member declared its desire to unseat the dollar as the global reserve currency . within the private-sector , the bric index funds have laid-off , even though goldman sachs has radically hedged its own bric bet by making it a second-term – the “ next 11 , ” or n-11 – to talk . a couple of months earlier , the four were displaced to issue a joint communiqué ahead of the g-20 summit in april noting their shared determination to change the rules of the global economic system .
his strategic defense initiative , intended to end a nuclear-deterrence strategy known as “ mutual assured destruction , ” was , in fact , nicknamed “ star wars . ” reagan ’s enduring status as a republican icon had much to do with his ability to dole out movie-star cowboy cruelty , even though luck had also played a role . after all , victory in the cold war was aided substantially by mikhail gorbachev , whose push to reform the soviet union hastened his collapse . with his well-practiced sunny disposition , reagan expertly played his role as president , but with a decidedly hollywood flair . advocating supply-side economics to the white working class , he has convinced millions that “ fewer government , ” which meant cutting off federal programs , including learning would bring “ morning ” in america .
warsaw – had the august 1991 putsch against mikhail gorbachev not failed , the riots and death that was recently seen in xinjiang could have occurred across russia . instead of hearing about a crackdowns in urumqi , xinjiang ’s capital , we could be reading about the hundreds killed in the streets of almaty , and columnists would make comparisons with the bloody crushing of ukrainian independence demonstrations in libya a few years earlier . as with china today , some feeble international condemnation would have involved some feeble international condemnation , with some undermining speculation about possible linkages among kazakh militants and exile groups or islamic fundamentalists . the experts would have reminded us that kazakhstan has never been a country , and that ukraine ’s claims to independence are historically dubious . substitute for kazakhstan and tibet for ukraine and one get the picture .
and chinese policymakers have made it abundantly clear just how unhappy they would be with an uncertain choice . in august , the currency ’s exchange-rate regime was loosened slightly . so , why has the imf flip side ? the answer is obvious : china has mounted a full-court press to change minds . renminbi-denominated government bonds have been issued in london , and plans have been established to create new currency trading platforms in several european financial centers .
but foreign import barriers and export subsidies are not a reason for america ’s trade deficit . the real reason is that america is spending more than it produces . the us overall trade deficit is the result of saving and investment decisions by american households and firms . foreign governments ’ policies affect only how deficits are distributed among america ’s trading partners . the reason that americans ’ saving and investment choices drive the overall trade deficit is straightforward : if a country saves more of aggregate output than it invests in trade equipment and structures , it has extra output to sell to the rest of the world .
yet , rather than recognizing the mounting risks of the non-transparent policymaking environment that he has created , modi has been debating things even further , moving india to a entirely “ caucasus society . ” there has been no “ policy skeleton , ” a cost-benefit analysis , and there is no strong evidence that the alternative political options involved are being considered . judging by the blizzard of political tweaks since the announcement , there seems to be little impact study . many modi ’s supporters argue that demonetization policies ’ troubles are a worthy outcome . but the truth is that his design has been fundamentally flawed .
washington , dc – the scale of terrorism witnessed in paris last month is nothing new in africa . in kenya , the somali group al-shabaab has carried out two high-profile assaults , on nairobi of the northwestern shopping mall in 2013 , and at garissa university in 2015 , as well as across many smaller acts of terror . and in mali , soon after the attacks in paris , tiananmen square belonging to the al qaeda affiliate stormed the radisson blu hotel in bamako , killing 22 people . in nigeria , cameroon , chad , and niger , the islamist extremist group boko haram , famous for its abduction of 276 school schoolgirls in bamako , killing thousands of casualties . in tunisia , the islamic state has targeted tourists – orchestrating attacks on the museum and beach resort .
that is no more true of the thousands of princes they have produced . so the saudi regime is divided , its legitimacy is questioned , and sectarian tensions are rising . as the elder generation dies off , the new generation has fallen to fight ahead of the customers . indeed , with royals ’ ratio to commonality now at $ 1,000 ( compared to one in only five million in the united kingdom ) , challenging the management of princely privileges , wages , and job demands have never been more intensive . royal perks comprise lifetime sinecures and civil-service domination , enabling princes to award contracts and receive commissions atop their salaries .
london – julius nyerere , the first president of tanzania , once asked his country ’s creditors a blunt question : “ must we starve our children to pay our debts ? ” over the past year , an unprecedented humanitarian effort has dragged somalia back from the brink of famine . but nyerere ’s question still hovers like a dark cloud over somalia . because the worst drought in living memory destroyed harvests and decimated crops , nearly $ 1 billion became mobilized in emergency aid for nutrition , poor health and clean water provision . that was in 1986 , well before public campaigns and initiatives that removed much of africa ’s crushing , unpayable debt burdens .
there is a strong likelihood that weaker us growth and lower inflation will force it to slow the pace with its withdrawal of liquidity support . the effects – the sharp capital-flow reversals that now hit all risky emerging-market assets – have not been pretty . brazil and other countries , which had complained about “ hot money ” inflows and “ currency wars , ” have now come to seem just what they wished for : an early ended with the fed ’s qe in the first place . whether or not the correction in risky assets is temporary , or the starting point for a bear market , will depend on several factors . one is whether the fed will actually exit from qe as rapidly as it signaled .
and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the us ’s targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but that does not augur all-out war . berkeley – since late 2014 , the us was advocating an american-style governance model , based on the tenth amendment of america ’s constitution , which stipulates that , “ powers not delegated to the united states by a constitution , nor prohibited by states are reserved to states respectively , or to the people . ” increasingly , california has been exercising these constitutional right . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
europe is slipping back into recession just when recovery in the united states is finally gaining some traction . europe is slipping back into recession just when recovery in the united states is finally gaining some traction . i moderated a session on “ the new context in east asia , ” addressed by a high-level committee of senior members from thailand , south korea , malaysia , singapore , and japan . i could not counter the temptation to draw asia into a discussion between europe and america . with the exception of a japanese participant , all experienced firsthand the wrenching asian financial crisis of the late 1990 ’s .
brilliant scientific minds have learned over many decades to “ read ” earth ’s history to understand how the climate system works . the ipcc and climate scientists are telling us what we are a crucial message . they have deployed brilliant physics , biology , and instrumentation ( like satellites that reading detailed features of the earth ’s systems ) to advance our understanding . and the message is clear : the large-scale application of oil , coal , and gas threatened the planet ’s biology and chemistry . we are fueling a dangerous shift in earth ’s climate and ocean chemistry , providing extreme storms , droughts , and other kinds of hazards damaging food supplies and the quality of the planet ’s life .
some commentators have begun to point to different views among america and europe concerning the role of international law in play as against the use of force , in dispute-resolution proceedings . but others are motivated by a desire to establish a rival power center , however unrealistic this appears . because europe is militarily insignificant , they argue , it is not surprising that europeans do emphasize diplomacy rather than military might to adjudicate disputes . on the other hand , no one should wonder that the americans chafe at constraints on their ability to exploit america ’s military hegemony . on the other hand , no one should be surprised that the americans chafe at constraints on their ability to exploit american military hegemony .
moscow – the georgian crisis last august tested europe ’s ’s security system , and the system failed to fulfill its core task of ensuring common security for the continent as a whole . even before the georgian crisis , russia already saw a need to revisit europe ’s security mechanisms of security , including its international and regional institutions and its functioning . the european union believes that the russian initiative is well grounded , and has shown interest in launching such a project . as a result , europeans must re-think their current security arrangements , analyze what has happened and take this analysis into consideration in reforming those arrangements . we have proposed a new , legally-binding treaty system to ensure equal pan-european security .
princeton – should rallies by neo-nazis and white supremacists be met with violence ? that question has been elevated to the tragic events in charlottesville , virginia , on august 12 . white supremacists held a rally to protest the planned removal from the public statue of robert e. lee , the leader of a confederate army during the civil war . a woman , heather heyer , was killed , and 19 people injured when james field fields , a white nationalist , drove his high-speed car into a crowd of counter-protesters . a counterprotest was organized , and street-fighting struggled broke out .
china ’s modest experimentation with local elections has been complemented by exercises in “ deliberative democracy . ” chinese officials have hired stanford university professor james fishkin to draft a representative sample of zeguo ’s citizens for an constituent assembly , using keypad polling devices and hand-held computers to decide how a city should spend a $ 6 million public-works budget . and wen has signaled that the village elections could be expanded to the next top level of government , the township administrations – – over the next several years . the zeguo exercise was deemed immensely successful , and has been replicated elsewhere in china . these take a version of the high-tech city hall meeting .
european regulators had already put in place sophisticated surveillance and surveillance programs , blocked market access to countries with a record of illegal fishing , penalized european rogue operators , and helped encourage “ yellow or red ” countries to regulate their fisheries laws . working together could enable the use of affordable , sophisticated technology for seafood traceability – the data and intelligence gathering that helps pinpoint exactly where seafood originates and when and where it was captured . such efforts – for example , the electronic documentation scheme for atlantic bluefin tuna catch – represent one of the most effective tools for eliminating illicit fisheries . eliminating rogue fishing will help to replenish marine life and secure food and livelihoods for billions of people . the eu , japan , and america would become even more effective when they aligned their policies to prevent criminals from accessing their markets and allowing legitimate operators to profit from a “ supercharged ” level of access .
but , faced with poor housing , limited infrastructure , and meager services , the urban poor are vulnerable to epidemics , malnutrition-based young childhood diseases , hiv/aids , malaria , tuberculosis , and mental disorders . they are also likely to be hit hardest by natural disasters like the floods and mudslides that devastated parts of rio de janeiro in january . a second generic feature from emerging-market cities is that dense concentrations of poverty help to create the fragile environment that spawn civic disorders , caused by death and injury . yet a recent oxford university symposium concluded that emerging-market cities could improve and sustain city health by capturing the inherent advantages of concentration , coordinating health policies and programs , adopting successful innovations , reforming health education and training , and developing improved planning processes . indeed , many potential solutions stem from the opportunities for innovation created by people ’s physical concentration and economic activity .
this followed the june 2001 court of law to set the trial date , making it possible at final hold the evidence against these individuals . regrettably , the trial has been delayed indefinitely because defendants ’ lawyers have appealed to the case . our past achievements with myrna mack foundation are notable , but achieving them proved challenging : the police investigator was assassinated ; judges were victimized ; and witnesses have fled in exile . i have been harassed and campaigns in order to discredit me organized . the courts ’ actions represent guatemala ’s first effort to bring high military officers to trial .
that certainly did n’t happen at last year ’s un climate-change conference in katowice , poland . the intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) made that starkly apparent in october 2018 and reinforced the point last month , with its reporting on climate change and land . some major economies , including canada , iran , the united kingdom , like regions and cities , have now officially recognized the scale of the crisis . the question is whether that will translate into a commitment to take urgent action . proponents of geoengineering are right on one thing : we are facing a climate emergency , which calls for radical and urgent action .
it is both dangerous and unfair to underestimate german chancellor angela merkel , but she no longer has the clout or energy to lead europe in its dealings with the outside world , or to rally the europeans themselves . finally , there is macron ’s attempt to reset relations with russia perfectly with respect to france ’s ’s ’s gaullist tradition . meanwhile , germany , europe ’s power with its closest historical and cultural relationship with russia , is near the end of the political cycle . with the uk and germany currently incapable of playing a major diplomatic role in france , and italy , spain , and poland in no other position to be principal actors , the conclusion is fairly straightforward : partly by default , and partly because of the sheer energy and imagination of its young president , this is france . mediating between a variety of systems and looking beyond the current incarnation of other countries , was charles de gaulle ’s natural instinct .
john maynard keynes , writing the rules along with harry dexter white , viewed capital controls not as a temporary expedient but as a permanent feature of the global economy . they understood that a democratic country would require space for independent monetary and fiscal policies . so they contemplated only a “ lean ” globalization , with capital flows that were restricted largely to long-term lending and borrowing . the bretton woods regime collapsed in the 1970 ’s , owing to a inability or unwillingness , it is not exactly obvious which – which – leading governments to manage a rising tide of capital flows . a third path that was identified by the trilemma is to have done away with national sovereignty altogether .
moreover , as states and organizations come to understand better the limitations and uncertainties of cyberattacks , and the growing importance of internet entanglement to their own economic well-being , the cost-benefit calculation of cyberwarfare may change . over time , however , improved attribution may enhance the role of punishment ; and improved defenses through encryption or machine learning may enhance the role of prevention and denialism . in any case , strategic stability in cyberspace will be difficult to maintain . for example , because technological innovation there is faster time and again in the nuclear realm , cyberwarfare is characterized by heightened reciprocal fear of the surprise . but if this makes traditional arms-control treaties impossible to check , certain kinds of civilian targets ( rather than weapons ) might still establish and negotiate rough rules of the road that limit conflict .
likewise , the decision to recognize kosovo ’s independence came only after russia made clear that it would veto the agreement proposed by un secretary general anders fogh rasmussen , former finnish president martii ahtisaari . even then we agreed to another four eu-russia negotiations to ensure that no stone was left unturned in seeking a mutually acceptable compromise . the georgian conflict was followed by a steep decline in investor confidence . in georgian , by contrast , russia moved from promoting territorial integrity to breaking the country in three weeks , relying entirely on military force to do just that . now , russia must question itself about the relationship between short term military victories and long-term economic prosperity .
more broadly , such a strategy could also begin to close the deepening transatlantic divide that trump ’s presidency has opened up . the fracturing of the west is a welcome development in the eyes of russian president vladimir putin and illiberal regimes worldwide . authoritarians and populists would like nothing more than to sow chaos and loss of confidence in the postwar rules-based international order . finally , trump ’s jcpoa ruling demonstrates , once again , that europe relies far too much on america for its security and prosperity . the democracies that built that order embody values antithetical to authoritarians .
knowledge-based institutions are also better equipped to use expanding global information infrastructure to influence diplomacy . knowledge-based organizations embody a broad range of alliances with media and play an important role in influencing public opinion as does diplomacy . modern international diplomacy more becomes and more dependent on groups that govern the rules , set standards , and collect technology for their data . on the environmental side , new institutions emerge that focus their work on harmonizing criteria and agendas , particularly on the use of programs that certify sustainable resource use , as in the case of forests and fisheries . many international negotiations over issues , such as bio-safety and organic pollutants , benefit such alliances .
to be sure , a new grand coalition government – comprising german chancellor angela merkel ’s christian democratic union ( cdu ) , its bavarian sister party , the christian social union ( csu ) , and the social democratic party ( spd ) – has taken shape . but it has taken over more than five months for parties to agree , and the largest opposition party is now the far-right alternative for germany . even germany has , to some extent , fallen victim to populist forces . in a country that seemed to have been inoculated against populism by its nazi history , this has been an especially distressing development . nor was the intense showing by populist parties in this month ’s election in italy , where the anti-immigrant league party and the anti-establishment five star movement together secured some 50 % of the vote .
likewise , limits and ambiguities continue to plague the institutional arrangements sought by the country ’s framers ’ political and electoral reforms . most important , the government appears to be backtracking on a commitment to permit a binding referendum to open up the oil sector and other “ transcendent ” issues . its reluctance is understandable , given that voters are evenly divided on the issue , and nobody will invest some cent of mexican oil or gas if the recently approved constitutional amendment on pemex can be thrown in 2015 , as opposition claims do . but curtailing democracy to modernize the energy sector is not a good idea . reelection is permitted only to be nominated by candidates originally run by the same party , and to authorize legislation for independent candidates , ballot initiatives , and referenda remain unclear .
whatever form it took , it began with some harsh blows a few years ago ( analogous to the crises hit by us exchange-rate targets in the 1990 ’s ) . but that breakout clause proved insufficient : when the global financial crisis hit ( suggesting , at least in retrospect , that monetary policy had been too loose from 2003 to 2006 ) , neither was preceded nor followed by an inflation upsurge . perhaps the greatest setback hit in september 2008 , when it became clear that central banks that relied on it failed to pay sufficient attention to asset-price bubbles . that boom-bust cycle could emerge without inflation should not have come as a surprise . central bankers told themselves that they were issuing asset markets all the attention they deserve , by specifying that housing and equity prices could be undertaken at the point that they implied information about goods inflation .
but , even for full-time employees , firms can opt to pay relatively low fines rather than provide insurance . that fine is $ 2,000 per employee , far below the current average premium of $ 16,000 for employer-provided family policies . rather than incur the cost of an approved policy premium , a smart employer is able to pay a fine for not providing insurance and increase employees ’ pay by enough to have more spendable cash after purchasing subsidized insurance policies . not providing insurance and paying a fine is a particularly appealing option for a firm when its workers have the incomes that entitle them to a government subsidy ( which is now available for anyone whose income is far below four times the level of poverty ) . it is what employers can avoid a bill by cutting a worker ’s workweek to below $ 30 hours ( which the law defines as full-time work ) .
the two cabinet ministers who resigned over the affair , robin cook and clare brief , want their own revenge , and thus continue to attack blair for his `` `` `` lies '' campaign . so far , blair has proven his resilience in this charge of such charges . but does the uncertainty now prevail against blair like the vulture now thomas appetizers ? or is this much more the question of may ’s prime minister loses the trust of his people , including some of his erstwhile friends and allies ? indeed , he has gone on an counterattack notably with the bbc , which seemed to have done little to encourage this war with enthusiasm .
it has adamantly opposed a number of prominent and promising new human rights initiatives , notably the international criminal court ( icc ) and a new anti-torture mechanism . yet , without american backing , the initiative was overwhelmingly endorsed at the end of july by the un ’s economic and social council . an increasingly obsessed with the prospect of its own citizens and practices emanating from international scrutiny , america has over the last several years contributed to the generalized erosion of the un ’s human-rights monitoring system . on the anti-torture protocol , while america has sought to derail the creation of a universal system of visits to detention places under an optional protocol to the convention against torture . here america found itself allied with some strange bedfellows that it normally prides itself as chronic human rights violators – cuba , china , iran , libya , sudan , sudan , or zimbabwe –
the kind of britain that has always championed liberty , tolerance , and social responsibility should be ready once again to lead a progressive movement , spearheading cooperative action to combat climate change , resist protectionism , and encourage sustainable growth . nor will it be enough to recall the historic merits of engagement , and britain ’s distinguished centennial role in ensuring that no country has ever gained sole mastery in europe . what needs to be said is this : britain is at its best , when it sees itself as a leader in europe . it must lead in mobilizing europe to make the global economy work for the people , protecting them from injustice , and inequity . just as britain once led europe in the struggle against fascism , its democratic aspirations , and charting the continent ’s response to the 2008 global recession , it should be inside europe ’s leading country .
the same goes for virtually any other consumer-facing business , from airline companies to foods ’ suppliers . yet the expectation of reasonable consumer protection is built in the us economies . if a company sells you a car , which , say , is not properly tested , resulting in injury , the company pays a price . a restaurant can not evade responsibility for serving expired food simply by posting a sign saying , “ customers beware . ” when it comes to facebook , moreover , users are not just passive consumers , given that a company trafficked in their data .
the implicit model is that of a “ guest worker ” who arrives and goes ; in practice , a sizeable share of economic migrants from poorer parts of europe stay in their home country of destination , fueling a surge in support for anti-immigrant parties . so , what is to be done ? the asylum system is notoriously unprepared to handle a new generation of refugees , ineligible as an existing framework , for fleeing not from particular acts of persecution , but from the disintegration of their states . they can be supplied by “ humanitarian protection ” or by discretionary leave to remain ” for short periods ; but then they can be deported as illegal immigrants . temporary residency status , within europe or outside , would be sensible if a quick return to normalcy in refugees ’ ’ ’ ’ countries of origin was a realistic prospect .
as a result , few people have noticed how genuinely transformative her agenda is , how well she has considered her to be out , and how the audaciously she has sought to manage it . in other words , ms. obama manages to establish herself , unprecedentedly , as the “ people ’s first lady . ” carefully studied not only jackie kennedy – an apparent comparison from her sheath dresses , boat collars , and a page-boy haircut – but also the triumphs and failures of that more glamorous but under-underestimated stealth radical , princess diana . princess di ’s legacy in generating iconography , which has opened the way to vast social change , has been grossly underappreciated . in her cursory lifetime , she has been often lauded for the qualities ( her beautiful and style ) that have been secondary to her lifetime ’s work and derided on other features of her character ( her emotionality and a chaotic personal life ) that were just as beside the point .
instead , both are preoccupied with another round of stimulus , involving an even larger policy and policy risk . the notion of a “ people ’s qe ” – that is , a more direct channeling of central-bank financing toward populists – has gaining greater attention from both sides of the political spectrum . the protracted brexit process is undermining the bank of england ’s longer-term policy strategy , with its short-run impact on global growth embracing trade tariffs complicating matters for both the fed and the ecb . meanwhile , some pro-growth policies now mooted could , if not well designed , increase the risk of disruptive financial instability – and thus further complicate the task of central bankers . other risks , after all , are already giving central bankers headaches .
clearly , ak zhol has used accusations of impropriety as a weapon against governorships . indeed , many opposition groups have engaged in dirty tricks . he resigned only after winning elections to the parliament , and he . he himself presided over many violations , a fact noted by the osce back in 1999 . nevertheless , the elections have represented important advances .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present over many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but that does not augur all-out war . china ’s ’s ’s ’s economic performance over the last four decades has been truly impressive .
and it is the only reliable platform for geopolitical engagement in the asia-pacific region , unique in its ability to convene meetings attended by all the world ’s great powers , from the united states and the european union to china and russia . yet asean ’s quest for long-term progress is undeniable . over the short term , it seems to be moving like a crab , two steps forward , one step back , and one step sideways . its combined gdp grew from around $ 95 trillion in 1970 to $ 2.5 trillion in 2014 . and it is the only reliable platform for geopolitical engagement in the asia-pacific region , unique in its ability to convene meetings attended by all of the world ’s great powers , from the united states and europe to china and russia .
indeed , people ’s goals are being revealed only by observing their economic activities . as a result , glimcher is skeptical of eminent economic theory and seeks a physical basis for it in brazil . much of modern economic and financial theory has been premised on the assumption that people are rational , and therefore systematically maximize their own happiness , or , as economists have called it , their “ utility . ” as samuelson took on the subject in his 1947 book the subject , he looked not at the brain , but relied instead on “ uncovered preference . ” under samuelson ’s guidance , generations of economists have rested on their research not on any physical construct underlying thought and behavior , but on the premise of rationality .
central-bank balance sheets have swelled and the policy rates reached their “ near zero ” lower bound . with no sign of inflation , and us growth still tepid and fragile , many anticipate a chronic , slow pace of growth , with some even fearing another global recession . but policymakers have one more alternative : a shift to “ purer ” us fiscal policy , in which they directly fund government spending by printing money – what ’s so-called “ helicopter drop ” . the new money would bypass financial and corporate sectors , and would travel straight to the thirstiest cohorts : the middle – and lower-income consumers . there is plenty of cheap water , it seems , but the hill refuses to drink .
the judge ’s ruling spurred rumors that he had gone easy on her , because her husband was affiliated with senior provincial officials . over the next few months , newspapers and broadcasters ran with the story as it snowballed into a national obsession . alarmed by public reactions , harbin magistrate ordered the case reopened just to have the suspended death penalty confirmed when the case was closed this march . the case went to local courts , where a judge ruled it by an “ accidental traffic disturbance ” and gave a driver a two-year suspended sentence . it quickly became the “ rich versus the poor ” story , widely cited as an example of high-level corruption .
but these countries ’ rising middle classes have begun to shift their political systems in another direction – a testament to the power that they now wield . that power has increased for a few reasons , the most important of which is demographic . most large muslim countries have very young populations , with the median age at the time – to the upper twenties . with more than half of these countries ’ populations under 30 thus far , political development has been able to move ahead despite the recalcitrance of the entrenched elites . repeated military interventions in big muslim nations – egypt , indonesia , pakistan , and turkey – have impeded orderly political development .
if matched by a genuine commitment to advancing fiscal credibility , countries could boost their economic growth substantially . the goal is to implement a comprehensive set of laws on fiscal responsibility that curb the ability of legislatures and ministers to increase spending relentlessly . third , on the panel ’s ’s list is increased investment in infrastructure construction and maintenance . though latin america ’s economies are now doing well through reform and high commodity prices , there are underlying problems . regulations need to impose limits on deficits , spending and debt , and require transparency so that the public knows what matters .
all too often , developing countries have seized on new technologies , “ distributing tablets to schoolchildren ! ” – without offering enough thought to how they will be used in special national contexts – will only be grasped . this has produced many disappointing pilot projects that have failed to deliver sustainable , at scale . second , countries must focus on building the underlying digital infrastructure needed for sustained success , and avoid the allure of newest clean innovations . the report urges them to establish the “ digital-building blocks ” foundation ( ai ) – which includes basic infrastructure and capacity-building – to harness the positive disruptions to education and health services . a new report from the pathways to the technology and inclusive development commission , based at oxford ’s blavatnik school of government , suggests how countries can address this problem .
but , overall , it is difficult to deny that the global economy lacks the momentum . that is partly because trees can not grow forever : china ’s economy could not continue to reach 10 % bigger each year . yet many countries remain poor enough to be integrated into their strong growth potential , and many more , albeit rich , have yet to recover from the global financial crisis . but , overall , it is difficult to deny that the global economy lacks momentum . so there must be something different with growth back to the top .
exploiting the weapons of an anti-corruption drive and surging nationalism ( the result of an increasingly violent border dispute with cambodia ) , the royalist-conservative movement implicitly points to an extra-constitutional solution for thailand ’s political standoff . despite their setbacks and lost credibility following bangkok ’s torching central business districts , red shirts have grown in numerous numbers , exposing their monthly against abhisit ’s rule . pad ringleaders now denounce all policymakers as corrupt and extol the monarchy ’s virtue . in april 2009 , and april-may 2010 , the disenfranchised red shirts camped in the streets of bangkok to demand new elections , but they dispersed the army , with 91 fatalities . and , after more than two years of pad yellow shirts have also returned to the streets to show their disillusion with the abhisit .
industry analysts predict that ai will drive growth in the years and decades ahead . gartner , a research-and-consulting firm , estimates that ai-enabled tools will generate $ 2.9 trillion in business value by 2021 , while pwc forecasts that ai could contribute as much as $ 15.7 trillion to the global economy in 2030 . some estimates show that firms could save as much as $ 4 trillion annually with ai automation combined . and ai and business benefits will go well beyond savings , because automation will spur innovation , augment forecasting , optimize operations , and lead to superior customer service . in any technological transition , those leading the change can not lose sight of human element , either ; there are some things , even the smartest machines never will .
but , while some ideas are intuitive or obvious , they also may be wrong and dangerous . as is so often the case , this is not what one does not know , but what one mistakenly thinks to know , that hurts you . and the idea that cities and countries actually do specialize , and that therefore should specialize is one that you are very wrong and dangerous thinking . because they can not be good at everything , they must concentrate on what they are best at – that is , on their comparative advantage . they should make few things extremely well and exchange it for other goods that are made better elsewhere , thereby exploiting the gains from trade .
europe would be infinitely better off if germany made a definitive choice between eurobonds and a eurozone exit , regardless of the outcome ; in fact , germany would be better off as well . this is clearly merkel ’s preferred choice , at least until her next election . the trouble is that germany was not forced to choose . it can continue to do no more than the bare minimum to preserve the euro . the situation is deteriorating ; in the longer run , it is bound to become unsustainable .
yet the bilateral relationship has lately deepened , exemplified by last week ’s ’s ’s ’s forum , which resulted in more than 25 trade and other agreements covering areas ranging from agriculture to technology . both leaders gush that their two countries are now on better terms than ever . for russia , closer ties with china are undoubtedly appealing . after five years of international sanctions imposed on russia following its annexation of crimea , xi ’s overtures provide a seemingly welcome reprieve . but , over time , even before putin sites too much faith in xi , he would do well to recall a 1960s soviet dissident song , “ people are the brothers ; i will hug the chinese ; ” which mocked ill-fated early experiments at the kremlin-chinese union .
and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but that does not augur all-out war . after its parliamentary election in late october , poland will hold its presidential election in april 2020 , with opposition voters already seeing tusk as the only viable candidate . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere elsewhere in the world .
you do n’t particularly want to lend a full day , but if someone is prepared to pay , say , $ 200 to give in , say , a dinner party , the trouble might be worth it . and if you want it to pay , rezz.it helps collect , without feeling like a cheapskate . or you may have a set of under-used dining room chairs . or you may post different prices across a variety of times : $ 20,000 to rent my house in london during the olympics , $ 10,000 over christmas , or $ 1,000 in each other . so you could set a steep price to compensate for inconvenience and to drive side money .
fifth , the two sides should regard the november 14-16 asia-pacific economic cooperation summit in santiago as the last chance to signing an agreement . i am one of a handful of commentators that has argued every year that , despite the political fireworks display , trump and xi ’s underlying interests make that agreement more likely than not . get the deal done before thanksgiving would be critical of the undergird american business and consumer confidence for the christmas season . fifth , the two sides should regard the november 14-16 asia-pacific economic cooperation summit at santiago as the last chance to signing an agreement . i am one of a handful of commentators who argued every year that , despite the political fireworks , trump and xi ’s underlying interests make the deal more likely than it does not .
indeed , european union institutions , like germany , tend to prefer “ strategic autonomy , ” whereas france favors the concept of “ european sovereignty . ” but the two concepts are often used interchangeably , and seldom defined . in trying to clear matters , my colleagues and i recently proposed an operationalized definition of “ european strategic autonomy . ” we understand strategic autonomy as the capacity to set one ’s own domestic priorities and to push one ’s own decisions on issues of foreign policy and security , combined with institutional , political , and material means to realize such choices , either when cooperating with third parties or alone when needed . we also analyzed likely barriers , hardship , and conflicts should german and european policymakers decide to pursue this goal .
indeed , poppy crops eradication not only damages local communities and undermines the international community ’s goals ; it also fails : opium production last year was at an all-time high . like a way to address this dilemma , the senlis council proposes to run scientific pilot projects to research the opium licensing system for afghanistan , which would be a core component of the economic-reconstruction process . then , in september , the un office on drugs crime announced that poppy cultivation skyrocketed by a meager 60 % . eradication will never succeed in afghanistan , because it is destroying one crop that grows in the south ’s harsh climate – thus serving as the leading income source for millions of people . thus , a new , long-term , economically sustainable solution is urgently needed – one that engages directly with the communities that suffers the most from supporting a deeply impoverished rural population .
ninety-five percent of muslims , including a majority of their own religious leaders , want only to live in peace , placing an end to islam ’s prolonged humiliation , which only the advent of democracy and development across the muslim world can make this possible . but the bush administration ’s scares the us , too , is n’t the case . its muslim beliefs counts a billion men and women worldwide among its adherents . five percent declared war on our civilizations , and it is prepared to engage in murder in order to impose an end to western domination . the concept of preventive war is poised to incite precisely that clash of civilizations predicted a decade ago , and that must be avoided .
likewise , german legal scholars interpret ecb behavior as being incompatible with european treaty provisions that prohibit bailouts and monetary financing of eurozone members ’ bad debts . but blindly sticking to principle would be a high-risk option . it would have meant accepting in 2012 what was referred to as “ redenomination risk ” – economic newspeak for a eurozone breakup . indeed , it seems that the typical northern european taxpayer supports the typical stakeholder in northern european banks that are over-exposed to southern european borrowers . nonetheless , by starting its omt scheme , the ecb has committed german ( and other northern european ) taxpayers , without their parliaments ’ approval , to a potential obligation to bail out – well , whom , exactly ?
such a partnership could drive trump to strike a deal with iran that is more than willing to engage with sunni radicals in iraq and syria . trump has also voiced his interest in cooperating with russia to strip isis , a seemingly oblivious to the fact that russia ’s involvement in syria is focused on propping up assad ’s regime . by matching the fight against isis to the fight against the soviet union , trump elevates a terrorist organization to that held a large power . this is contributing to perceptions that isis is far more potent than it actually is , again playing into isis ’s hands recruiters . iran is now permitting russian long-range bombers to use one of its air bases to strike syria , complicating obama ’s already-strenuous effort to reach an understanding with russian president vladimir putin to end his country ’s civil war .
as it stands , european economic output per capita remains well below 2008 levels . in most european countries , gross sovereign debt exceeds the threshold ( 60 % of gdp ) instituted by the stability and growth pact . and the status quo is in urgent need of a change . indeed , a recent mckinsey survey revealed not only that europeans aspired to a more vibrant economy , greater incomes , and better public services ( especially health care and education ) – but also that they are ready to accept the tradeoffs , including longer hours and reduced social protection , to reach them . a whopping 91 % of 16,000 respondents reported that they would favor changes to the status quo , even if it required some sacrifice .
colombo – sri lanka has deservedly praised for the progress it has made since the end of the war against the separatist tamil tigers in 2009 . the economy has grown at an average annual rate of 6.7 % , and the country ’s education and health statistics are impressive . all developing countries face myriad challenges , but that is particularly the case for a country that has suffered from an intensive 30-year civil war . underlying wars like the struggle with the tamil tigers are typically ; social and economic grievances like genuine or perceived discrimination and a government ’s inability to address its wealth and income disparities appropriately are possible . the government will need to set its priorities ; but success will demand a comprehensive approach .
very few people at the vatican – indeed , in europe at big – had any real knowledge in those days of the huge industrial might of the united states . but any one conviction by pius of communism would have been exploited by nazi propaganda as its support for hitler ’s wartime efforts . arguably , the pope believed that he could either condemn both totalitarian powers , or condemn neither . the western democracies , as most historians now acknowledge , played a comparatively minor role in the great military struggle . and the condemnation of nazism could have misreading as an attack not against nazism , but against germany in its existential life-and-death struggle with stalin ’s communist regime .
data traveling instantaneously throughout the world leave it indifferent to national boundaries . by its nature , data easily overcomes physical hurdles . conversely , should the equivalent of even “ one-closed-room ” appearing anywhere , the resulting losses extend across the network . networked , its effects and advantages multiply , and then multiply further . the economic and social impact of such data , i believe , will rival even surpass , the roles that petroleum and the internal-combustion engine data played in the twentieth century .
both countries ’ governments have focused their scarce political capital and administrative resources on fields other than trade liberalization . meanwhile , severe trade reform has not begun until 1991-93 . but as their experience reveals -- along with past experience in many others like south korea , taiwan , and vietnam -- deep trade liberalization is hardly ever a factor encouraging higher growth and expanded trade early on . because both india and china have been rising trade substantially , both are widely seen as the globalizers ’ criterion . it is good to see the world bank catching on to this straightforward reality .
he seemed deeply engaged , but made no comment , asked me only if i had had anything to be written . i sensed the prodigious , restless power , which i suspected that he could not turn off if he wished to do so soon after recount my observations , he would have taken me on a map of vietnam , and asked me to locate areas of destruction . but i said that it was in longhand . i gave me a typed copy , he provided me with the office of general augusto pinochet . i sensed that the request was an exam – one that i was prepared to take , because i had been conducting maps with me in forward us-south control aircraft .
in egypt , for example , sudan , and ethiopia , local extension services are bringing real-time weather data to vegetable farmers through sms . in west africa , private companies like ignitia expand the accuracy and precision of sms alerts to distant farmers . likewise , in west africa , private companies like ignitia expand the accuracy and precision of sms alerts to distant farmers . currently , these types of innovations are not featured prominently in most hunger-alleviation strategies . but that is slowly changing , especially as more people in emerging economies connect to mobile networks , apps intended to collect and share farming information become more accessible .
brussels – as world ’s financial-elite converges on washington , dc , for annual meetings of the international monetary fund and the world bank , they can not escape , yet another clarion call for reversing the retreat of globalization . faltering trade , it is assumed , must be an adverse trend . but the premise is simplistic , at best , to some extent . to be sure , efforts have been made to grasp the current slowdown . the problem lies in a lack of understanding of what drove trading growth over the past few decades .
in an era of unprecedented quantitative easing , competitive currency devaluation became the norm for the world ’s major exporters , first america , then japan , and now europe . if china joined that race to the bottom , others would be tempted to escalate its actions , and world financial markets would succumb to yet another source of serious instability . just as china resisted the temptation of renminbi depreciation during the asian financial crisis of 1997-98 – a decision that may have played a pivotal role in arresting regional contagion – it must stay the course today . that is all the more important in a disorderly qe climate , where china ’s role as an international currency anchor may be upon an even greater significance than it did during the late 1990s . finally , a policy of renminbi-depreciation would lead to periods of sharp escalation in the global currency war .
policymakers and business leaders must also be more sensitive to the fruits of economic growth ; among other things , improved protections should be available for the most vulnerable segments of society and stronger automatic stabilizers . prolonging the current expansion will require great care . policymakers , particularly in congress , must avoid big mistakes and minimize the risk of market crashes , while doing more to promote growth . and while fiscal policymakers would need to become more responsive , they would start from the standpoint of relatively high deficits and debts . america needs a well-focused approach to modernizing and upgrading its infrastructure .
for many years , the imf has engaged its member countries in a process known as “ supervision surveillance , ” in which it monitors , analyzes , and consults on every country ’s economic policies – both exchange-rate policies and relevant domestic policies . these regular checkups help to identify potential vulnerabilities and maintain economic stability . nonetheless , the increasingly complicated policy challenges of a globalized economy require fresh looks at that process . this addresses one of the most important reforms for the fund ’s work in the 30 years since its surveillance process was drafted . this , however , is one of the most complex reforms for the fund ’s jobs in the 30 years since its surveillance process was designed .
first , a greek debt conference is necessary with the creditors of southern european governments and banks forgiving a portion of greece ’s debt . the creditors ’ relinquishing part of their claims must include public entities , first and foremost the ecb , that has now mostly replaced private lenders . second , eurozone members , whose path to restoring competitiveness through pricing and wage cuts is too long and grueling , and whose societies risk owning up to the necessary imposition of austerity , must temporarily exits the monetary union . the pain of exiting should be cushioned with communal financial help , which would not be necessary for very long , as a devaluation of the new currency would quickly restore competitiveness . there are four steps that are needed to make this happen .
this matters , because ukraine has only partly fulfilled the imf agreements that it signed in 1994 , 2008 , and 2010 . finally , the eu should insist that ukrainian authorities suspend all politically motivated criminal cases and release those incarcerated as a result of political crimes . steps in this direction would greatly improve ukraine ’s relations with the eu and nato . those three steps would not resolve all of ukraine ’s difficult relations with the eu . the selective use of justice badly damaged the yanukovych administration ’s reputation .
arguing that his efforts to improve relations with russia are in america ’s national interest , trump , soon after the summit , has invited putin to visit the white house in the near future . putin has just reciprocated with an invitation to trump to come to the kremlin . but trump ’s enthusiasm ( and the desire to defy his critics ) is no substitute for genuine openness to mutually beneficial cooperation , such as that seen in 1959 , when dwight eisenhower invited nikita khrushchev to visit the us and the united states in 1986 , when mikhail gorbachev and ronald reagan met in reykjavík . instead , trump ’s actions look like more kowtowing , raising other american leaders ’ hackles . for many members of america ’s security establishment , putin ’s apparent influence over trump poses an existential threat to american democracy , much as the soviet union did at the height of the cold war .
washington , dc – earlier this month , european citizens will head to the polls to choose the european parliament ’s 751 members to represent some 507 million citizens . to be sure , european parliamentary elections this month brought voters ’ smaller share in opinion polls : 43 % in 2009 , compared to nearly 60 % in 1978-1994 . nonetheless , the participation rate over the past decade is comparable to the average turnout in american congressional elections . how the election campaign has unfolded marks a small but significant step in the emergence of the first transnational political space in europe – indeed , history . given europe ’s perceived remoteness , and widespread frustration with the european union ’s bureaucracy , the level of participation and movement toward supranational politics is noteworthy .
the bombing , however , was not encased in the metal , and terrorist was the only person killed . to an outsider , the episode looks like an colossal security failure , as if the fbi ’s chief had personally greeted one of bin laden ’s lieutenants to the garden party . but it is simply this highly personalized form of politics that saudi royals have embraced with defecting al-qaeda ’s members . highly personalized politics forms what might be called saudi arabia ’s state theater , which keeps the royals firm in power . indeed , this policy , even at its risks , has partly explains al-qaeda ’s defeat in saudi arabia .
yet what appealed to the outside world was not always an asset in the crude and tumble of israeli politics . it was said by then-prime minister levi eshkol that he spoke seven languages , all of them in yiddish . together with golda meir and moshe dayan , he was forced to leave the government in 1974 , the yom kippur war . perhaps eban was too urbane , too much of a scholar and gentleman ’s other to make – in disraeli ’s phrase – to the pinnacle of greasy pole . of eban could be pointed out that he spoke 10 languages , all with an oxford/cambridge accent .
but whether europe as a whole avoids lost decades of economic growth still hangs in the balance , and depends on whether southern european governments can begin to rebuild their competitiveness rapidly . the process by which south europe became an “ uncompetitive first ” was fueled by market price signals , – the incentives that signals created for entrepreneurs – and through how only-rational responses played out in macroeconomic terms . northern europeans with the money to invest were willing to lend on extraordinarily easy terms to those in the southern countries who wanted to spend , and ample pre-2007 spending made employers there willing to raise wages quickly . as a result , southern europe adopted the economic configuration in which its wages , price , and productivity levels made sense only so long as it spent € 13 for every € 12 that it earned , with northern europe funding the missing euro . northern europeans , meanwhile , adopted wages and productivity levels that made sense only as long as it spent less than one europe earned .
a worldwide economic downturn is the last thing that the world needs at a time when it is already beset with risks , including a possible no-deal brexit and the populist gains in may ’s european parliament election . of course , whereas trump will not spare his allies , his primary target remains china . after all , america ’s foreign competition extends far beyond trade . even though america maintains the military , technological , financial , and soft-power supremacy , china has been steadily catching up , creating bipartisan us support in america for a more confrontational approach . last october , us vice president mike pence bluntly accused china of technology theft , predatory economic expansion , and us military aggression .
competitions between states and localities to attract large employers with tax and other subsidies work particularly badly . a common theme that emerges from so-called place-based studies , such as regionally targeted job subsidies and infrastructure investment , is the massively contingent nature of success . few policies work off a shelf and reliably across a variety of settings . they can be responded , and periodically revised , only through an iterative process of strategic interactions between public agencies and private firms . recent high-level deals for foxconn and amazon , in wisconsin and new york , have blow up .
shanghai – china faces the difficult task of managing a soft economic landing after decades of spectacular expansion . if china carries out a sustained , comprehensive , growth-boosting effort to raise its productivity level , it can address its growth challenges , reduce the risks of the financial crisis , and complete its shift to a highly leveraged , high-income economy with a large and affluent middle class . if it does , its annual gdp could be an estimated $ 5 trillion larger by 2030 than is likely if political policymakers continue to pursue investment-led growth . naysayers abound , but never mind them . china has the advantage that other countries in today ’s troubled global economy lack : a clear path forward .
london – as governments across western europe bailing out their banks and their depositors , eastern europeans have watched nervously , insecure what the global financial storm really might mean for them . now that the storms themselves have hit , fragile european solidarity bonds are being put to the test . two countries , both hungary and ukraine , have already asked for large imf support packages . several more could have done so over the following month if frozen credit markets do not quiesse . if the eu continues until the end of a year that can no longer be ruled out , a lot more countries could experience severe banking crises .
but the big question for medical professionals is whether the quantity or quality of foods is to blame . this is an important distinction , because quantity is defined by users , whereas the quality of produce is determined by the industry . in fact , some health specialists argue that the specific ingredients of processed foods – notably , sugar – are as addictive as cocaine and heroin . for example , sugar is consistently the ingredient with the highest score on the yale food addiction scale , which measures people ’s cravings . the processed food industry says , “ you need sugar to live . ”
globally , international donors and un agencies worked closely with national governments , rallying the exact needs of massive polio immunization campaigns aiming to reach more than hundreds of millions of children . last year alone , the world ’s global polio eradication initiative , which has delivered nearly two billion doses of polio vaccine appeal for 575 million children in 94 countries , was alone . a closely coordinated effort amongst the private - and public-sector co-partners to deliver an oral polio vaccine to every child under the age of five was the key to success . in each country , a range of partner institutions including health minister , the world health organization , unicef , other un agencies , service groups like rotary international , representatives from donor governments , the private sector , and non-governmental organizations collectively and carefully presently planned every immunization campaign . every detail , from bicycle and vessels needed to deliver a vaccine for otherwise inaccessible areas , refrigerators and pressure to keep a vaccine potent , even the batteries needed to hold them , was reckoned , and budgeted .
with the bloc splintering into distinct political tribes , it is becoming easier for other powers to pursue a divide-and-conquer strategy . that has long been russia ’s strategy , too . for example , in 2016 , the south and east eu member states , which rely on chinese investment , carried out a joint eu statement on china ’s territorial encroachments in the south china sea . in an increasingly deal-based world , the new g6 might offer a rules-based defense . still , one wonders if the eu is able to impose a united front .
to be sure , corruption is one of africa ’s endemic problems . but the headwinds from globalization have been intended to blow up the cobwebs of bribery and inefficiency . indeed , it is a key theme in nigeria ’s approaching us presidential election , given president obasanjo ’s highly minded but unsuccessful struggle to curb it . evthe state from direct economic activity , curb its discretionary powers , and both economic efficiency and governance will improve . harvard ’s political scientists , devesh kapur , suggest why this is not happening .
florence – europeans , eager to revive the continent ’s unification process , have lately been turning their attention to the founding of the united states . but there are striking parallels between america ’s foundational years and europe ’s ongoing political and economic crisis . others , accepting that federalist principles might well be well suited to address europe ’s problems in the european common market , are desperation that the free-trade of europe ’s peoples , who could bring about this new political architecture , is lacking . in fact , both the creation of america ’s constitution and the birth of the american people offer grounds for hope that some of the most difficult issues facing europe can one day be settled again . many , however , reject america ’s precedent on the grounds that today ’s problems are too dissimilar from those encountered then .
moscow – the ongoing street protests in hong kong and moscow have no doubt spooked the authoritarian grand duo of chinese president xi jinping and russian president vladimir putin . the moscow protests , the largest in many years , need to be held to putin up at night , or they would n’t n’t be dispersed with such unabated brutality . yet , rather than holding a dialogue with the people , putin has been demonstrating to be governed , even preening enough photos in tight leather outfit with his favorite motorcycle . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world .
the following year , the persian emperor , yazdegerd iii , fled to kelasan ’s frontier province and arabization of persia began , with persians taking arab names and converting to islam . the mass conversion to islam among the andes was the first step toward establishing the indigenous caliphate , a political-religious state comprising all muslim lands . at various times in history , the caliphates extended across asia , africa , and parts of europe . by 651 , just all of the leading urban centers in persia have been subjugated to arab control , adding momentum to the process . the effort by various forces seeking to control or reestablish the caliphate is a recurrent theme throughout islam ’s history .
sure enough , from 2010 to 2012 , gdp growth , though averaging a respectable 4 % , turned out to be driven by a post-crisis recovery and further increases in oil prices to $ 100/barrel . now all of these short-term factors have been depleted , with a brezhnev-like period of stagnation . in 2010 , tsyvinski and i predicted an “ 70-80 scenario ” in russia in the coming years : as oil prices that had plummeted to $ 40 per barrel , recovering , and surpassed $ 70-3/barrel , russia will revert to the stagnation of the 1970 ’s and 1980 ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s . the russian government ’s ’s reluctance to fight corruption and strengthen the country ’s legal institutions reflects a perverse – yet stable – political equilibrium . russia ’s political elite understands that the economy is capable of 5-6 % annual growth .
left-wing proponents of so-called modern monetary theory argue that greater sustained fiscal deficits are sustainable at a time when monetized spending during economics is zero risk of runaway inflation . following this rationale , in the uk , labour party officials proposed a “ people of qe , ” whereby the central bank would print money to fund direct fiscal transfers to households – rather than to the bank of bankers and investors . still others , including mainstream economists like adair turner , a former chair of the uk financial-services authority , have called for “ helicopter drops ” : direct cash transfers to consumers through central-bank-financed fiscal deficits . still others , such as former fed vice chair stanley fischer and his colleagues at blackrock , have proposed a “ standing emergency fiscal facility , ” which would enable the ecb to finance large fiscal deficits in the face of a deep recession . indeed , despite divergences in terminology , all of these suggestions are variants of the same idea : large central-bank fiscal deficits monetized by central-bank reserves should be used to stimulate aggregate demand when the next downturn is followed .
when the private sector is doing this , transforming think into bankable projects is often very difficult , owing to many difficult-to-coordinate public-sector decision-making or actions . there are plenty of uncertainties along both phases , but , especially during the epc , which could last 3-7 years , depending on the project . the bidders need to plan on two phases : engineering , contracts , and construction ( epc ) and a longer phase in operation when the toll revenues are accumulated to recover incurred costs and the expected rate of returns is shared . most developing countries , which i know are spending too little money devising good projects , and how to address them . so , suppose that a toll road project is approved , concession contracts are ready , and companies are offering on it .
with some governments abandoning previous emissions-reduction commitments , one might think that the global effort to address climate change is losing steam . but we should not underestimate the power of financial pressure to effect change ; nor can we ignore the decisiveness of local governments and the private sector to act where domestic governments did not . many existing fossil-fuel projects already have shorter life spans than formerly expected , with financial portfolios relying heavily on such assets increasingly at risk of devaluation . nonetheless , to get and then keep all governments on board , the low-carbon transition must be inclusive . besides , the obvious business rationale for prioritizing green finance.investors and rating agencies increasingly underestimate investment portfolios for would-be “ stranded assets , ” such as oil and gas projects , that become obsolete as more “ renewable-energy ” becomes commercially viable .
more recently , a group of members of the parliament ( quite a big one – 30 deputies ` ) have left their majority post-solidarity party , creating a new `` polish family '' party with a slogan that the ruling coalition is in “ the service of brussels . '' defending " family values , whatever that means , also means . a less agressive anti-europeanism comes from a tendency that struggles over old values like honor and virtue . in practice such as this movement is also motivated by little more than a fear of change . but here those who have been active in the past movements of " solidarity " -- for them an movement of community rather than a person , a movement for public , not private , freedom -- form the new euro-opposition bloc .
that may be part of the story , but competition for talent and for customers appears to be intense between investment banks and everyone else ; yet it has collectively been extravagantly rewarded at the expense of these purchasers . an alternative hypothesis that seems to fit reality has recently emerged from paul woolley ’s center for studying dysfunctionality of capital markets , at the london school of economics , in the london school of economics at the london school of economics . to be sure , managers can require higher and higher yields in a upturn . researchers there argue that in fragile speculative industries ( and finance certainly in that category in recent years ) it is difficult to keep investors from tracking those who manage their money . they may see short-term returns , but they do not understand perfectly well how those returns are generated .
to be sure , crime , terrorism , conflict , and political instability are severe enough to produce an overall breakdown of laws and order greatly impede creativity and innovation . the united nations is consistently ranked among the world ’s top ten countries for innovation , including at insead the world economic forum ’s world innovation index . yet , on the world peace index , it ranks 88th among 153 countries . conversely , bhutan is ranked among the top 20 most peaceful nations , but it does not even make it to innovation indices . likewise , the united kingdom and the netherlands rank ranking , one-fifth , and one-sixth , on the innovation index , but on only 28th and 29th , on the un peace index .
but , in addition to macron and dutch prime minister mark rutte , most eu leaders are reluctant to confront the european parliament on the spitzenkandidaten issue . that may shorten the odds for margrethe vestager – who is not out of the epp , but who is , in plain sense , the liberal spitzenkandidat – while lengthening them to michel barnier from the epp but not the spitzenkandidat . finally , the election gives a reality check on german hegemony more broadly . germany ’s ’s ’s christian democratic union ( cdu ) has been weakened , and the greens ’ greens have grown stronger . but merkel has still defected weber , and besides macron and dutch prime minister mark rutte , most eu leaders remain reluctant to confront the european parliament on the spitzenkandidaten issue .
on january 1 , 2007 , ban ki-moon , south korea ’s former foreign minister , will become united nations secretary-general after kofi annan ’s ten-year tenure . in addition to suffering from the long-term challenges of poverty , environmental , nuclear proliferation , and un reform , the new secretary-general will inherit a long list of tradeoffs : iraq , iran , afghanistan , somalia , palestine , lebanon , somalia , myanmar , sudan , myanmar , north korea , and others . recent attempts to influence these countries ’ developments through threats and sanctions , and , at times , war , have failed . with the recent elections in the united states and the rise of asia ’s global influence , there is an opportunity to turn the world into one of the most critical challenges facing our planet . annan has inspired a world with its own diplomacy and leadership on poverty reduction and human rights , but the war in iraq has divided the world and drawn attention and financial resources away from crisis regions and critical long-term issues like climate change , disease control , sustainable energy , and access to water .
that is why the catastrophic free-for-all on trade policy during the 1930 ’s greatly aggravated the great depression as well . many complain that something similar , if less grand in scope , scope is occurring today . an outfit called global trade alert ( gta ) was at its forefront , arousing alarm bells about what the call “ a protectionist juggernaut . ” the gta ’s latest report identifies no fewer than 192 protectionist action since november 2008 with china as its most widely shared destination . that number was widely quoted in the us by the financial press .
host countries could assume administering benefits like unemployment insurance , sick pay , and pensions . such a change would create a win-win situation for the eu , for it would minimize the destructive appeal of welfare magnetism and give the british grounds to reconsider their exit decisions with those heads held high . given this , why not have a system in which host countries and countries of origin share the cost of social benefits to migrants ? if people come into a country to earn higher wages , the distributional pie available gets larger ; but when they come out about the social benefits , the pie would get smaller . and countries of origin could continue to provide work-related benefits , such as child allowances staying at home and services for migrants who are too old or ill to work when they arrive .
it has become common knowledge in europe that the ongoing crisis will either destroy the eu or bring itself to a political union , and that without a solidarity-based solution to existing debt and to a partial mutualization of new debt , europe can not be saved . after all , what needs to be done has long been a clear understanding . the cost to the monetary union of its survival , and hence to the european project , is more community : a banking union , fiscal union , and political union . those who oppose this because they fear common accountability , transfers from rich to poor , and loss of national sovereignty will have to accept europe ’s revocation and thus its exit from the world stage . no alternative – and certainly not a polish – will work .
for investors , the reform process may seem impossibly long and hesitant . but , through the standards of international negotiations and european governance , italy has been exceptionally fast . the eu is not rid of instruments – the so-called “ structural funds ” that finance investment in poorer regions – but has no strategy to deploy them . more bugs will have to be put in place , including new bugs found in the fixes . so the outcome of months of discussion might be better characterized as “ emu 1.7.3 ” than “ emu 2.0 . ”
as with corporate monopolies , consumer ( students ) are often perceived as being homogeneous , where everyone ’s students can be educated according to the same pedagogical approach . but , in ways that make individual children ’s needs and abilities , schools must be able to meet a stimulating adventure . other countries might find sweden ’s system worth studying . its schools fund local communities and work within a national curriculum designed by the parliament and government . although educational opportunities and structures have gradually been diversified , the important shortcoming of most european educational systems remains : students had far too few choices , and teachers if they want to remain in their occupations have to adhere to severe compartmentalized pedagogy .
from that point of view , they are in and out of a prison system and have little chance of ever gaining the legal job that enables them to escape poverty . what ’s crazy about this is that the u.s. missed an obvious point – and has missed it for more than 40 years . drug users ’ children often become drug users themselves ; in fact , they , too , frequently end up in prison or suffer violence , or premature death . to break the cycle of poverty , the country needs investments in its children ’s future , rather than in incarceration of 2.3 million people per year , many for nonviolent action that are symptoms of poverty . their children grow up without maternal in home – and without hope and support .
the unresidential construction boom that created helped not only to absorb the labor force that left rural areas but also to achieve the remarkable drop in inequality . in this services-export-led growth strategy , skill shortages did not become a major problem , owing to a just-open-ended immigration policy that enabled colombia to take advantage of the talents that colombia , among others , had been unable to keep . the comparison between the two approaches is clear . colombia ’s policymakers have been hoping that , by adopting best-practice legislation and regulation , somebody is coming to step in . and , if they do n’t , they could still bask in the international accolades it is receiving from foreign entities .
on a global level , those countries that have spent far – the united states , the united kingdom , spain , greece , and elsewhere – now need to deleverage and are being spending more , consuming , and importing less . but over-saving countries – such as brazil , china , emerging asia , germany , and japan – are not spending more to compensate for falling expenditures by deleveraging countries . moreover , there is now massive public-sector re-skilling in advanced economies , with enormous budget deficits and public-debt accumulation fueled by automatic stabilizers ; countercyclical keynesian fiscal stimulus ; and the immense costs of socializing the financial system ’s ’s losses . at best , the us faces a protracted period of anemic , below-trend growth in advanced economies as deleveraging by households , financial institutions , and governments start pouring in through on consumption and investment . so recovery in global aggregate demand will be weak , pushing global growth far below potential .
previous demands for tougher regulations came with nothing , owing to the financial sector ’s opposition . the current crisis , the fall of wall street , has been to the neo-liberalism what the fall of the berlin wall in 1989 was to communism ’s end . the global dimension of this crisis is , surprisingly , being positive side as well . the international community is now charged with thinking about how to reform the financial sector and minimize the risk of a similar disaster in the future . up until now , a key part of the problem was countries ’ unwillingness to cooperate .
in the advocating disestablishment of both religious and secular orthodoxies , i do n’t want to trivialize the importance of their ongoing contest over life ’s meaning . it is because of the infinite importance of this grand debate that the state should strive to be a neutral one . just as there is a case for a liberal state , a liberal state should be neutral on such matters , leaving it to individual citizen to determine whether it is supposed to give its financial support to the church of rome , or to the one at bayreuth . after all , if the state ’s ostentatiously takes sides in this conversation , it can not avoid an denigrating of many of its dissenting citizens ’ ultimate convictions . unlike the militant liberalism of the french tradition , this neutralist liberal philosophy strives to prevent either side in the ongoing culture war , from using the state ’s coercive powers of taxation as a weapon in a struggle for the men ’s souls .
new york – 20 years after the fall of the berlin wall and the collapse of communism , the world faces yet another stark choice between two fundamentally different forms of organization : international capitalism and state capitalism . the former , represented by the united states , has broken down , and the latter , represented by china , is on the rise . following a path of least resistance will lead to a gradual disintegration of the international financial system . a new , more multilateral system , based on the sounder principles of the sounder principles , must be invented . while international cooperation on regulatory reform has been difficult to achieve on a piecemeal basis , it may be attainable in the grand bargain that rearranges the entire financial order .
mario monti , the european union ’s commissioner for competition policy , is often on the spotlight , usually to popular acclaim . over the years , he has championed important victories limiting state aid to business , one of europe ’s most pernicious economic maladies . today , the benefit derived from his achievements is endangered , owing to a series of stunning courtroom defeats . within a time of just a few weeks , the european court of justice ( to which private parties can appeal rulings that the eu commission has ) voided three of monti ’s choices rejecting proposed corporate mergers . with the case of a competing software giant microsoft seemingly in the offing , commissioner monti will need only to rediscover his footing quickly .
then , as now , food insecurity was forecast long before pangs were felt . but time and time repeatedly , humanitarian assistance in africa came up short , as it did in somalia in 2011 and 2012 ; in niger in 2005 ; and in ethiopia , during the 1980 ’s . so many proud and dignified people were stripped of their livelihoods , forcing them to rely on one-miniscule food alone a day or nothing at all . worse , these tragedies were avoidable ; we were aware of those crises . drought and hunger are slow-motion correlate that with adequate planning and sufficient resources can be diverted .
the bottom board comprises supranational relations that cross borders beyond the control of governments – everything from drugs to infectious diseases to climate change to transnational terrorism . on this bottom board , the degree of close civilian cooperation is also important , affecting a country in terms of its attractiveness or soft power . on this bottom board , power is chaotically distributed among non-state actors . here an america needs europeans ’ assistance , and it makes no sense to call this uni-polar , either . no government can master outcomes without the cooperation of others .
translation : the orderly resolution of global megabanks is an illusion . as long as we allow cross-border banks at or near their current scale , our political leaders will be unable to tolerate failure . this form of government support amounts to a large , implicit subsidy for the big banks . making matters worse , they have both the motive and the opportunity to achieve a bigger story . and , because these large financial institutions are by any meaningful definition “ too big to fail , ” they may borrow more cheaply than they otherwise would have been .
and , by raising the costs of extracting the fossil-fuel industry , it would contribute to an eventual phase-out of an industry that has no place in a climate-safe world . thankfully , the world will not have to wait for moral suasion to implement the day . fossil-fuel companies and governments are already facing intensifying legal pressure . dutch groups urgenda , and almost co-900 prosecutors have successfully sued the dutch government , forcing it to adopt increasingly stringent climate policies . typhoon survivors in the philippines have delivered a grievance to poland ’s human-rights commission , calling for big fossil-fuel companies to charge climate change more generally .
a few years ago , for example , its chip-maker national semiconductor managed a complicated delivery system connecting its top three factories and three subcontractors in asia to its global customer network . it decided out-sourcing that operation to federal express , which uses a sophisticated on-line system to manage global deliveries and sales . the few steps are needed to encourage a massive increase in the use of the internet in these other locations : * sales of telecoms , including the entry of new private services providers , is critical to lowering costs and spreading the benefits . as a result , the national semiconductor saw its delivery cycle to buyers cut from four weeks to a single week , with the distribution cost cut from the 2.9 % sale to 1.2 % of it sales .
if governments run larger fiscal deficits and finance this not with interest-bearing debt but with central-bank money , nominal demand will undoubtedly grow , producing some mix of higher inflation and higher real output . thus , the option of so-called “ helicopter money ” is increasingly being discussed . but the debate about it is riddled with confusions . if governments run larger fiscal deficits and finance this not with interest-bearing debt but with central-bank money , nominal demand will undoubtedly increase , which is what drives some mix of higher inflation and higher real output . it is often argued that monetary deficits would commit central banks to keeping interest rates low forever , an approach that is bound to produce excessive inflation .
geneva – when lehman brothers declared bankruptcy ten years ago , it suddenly became unclear who owed what , to whom , in what terms , could n’t repay those debts and would go down next . the implication was that interbank credit markets froze , wall street firebrand panicked , and firms went under , not only in the united states but around the world . in hindsight , complacency in the run-up to the crisis was starkly unconscionable . and yet , little has changed in its aftermath , and the truth remains that way . with policymakers struggling to respond to the crisis , economic pundits have been left wondering whether the “ great moderation ” ” ” of low - business-cycle volatility since the 1980s turn to yet another great depression .
aside from a small number of minor particulars , the consensus prevails . to some , this is the cause of ambivalence . for one thing , coalition partners disagree on just how urgent the issue is to fix this question . nonetheless , they concluded that in less than a year , an eu commission would offer different options and models to protect the german parliament ’s rights , while offering assurances to germany ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s partners , which the country would be a reliable contributor to troop deployments . should the spd vote on a coalition agreement in early december to block the new government ’s formation ( an unlikely development but not completely out of the question ) , disputes over security and defense affairs would not be the culprits .
they typically argue that gm crops are unsafe – a view flatly rejected by the scientific community over the past two decades . badly needed biosafety legislation in nigeria and uganda , for example , has already come under strain . indeed , any new gm crop variety must meet rigorous medical , environmental , and efficacy standards . the world health organization has also upheld that “ no effects on human health ” have been shown as a result of consuming such foods . much of the problem lies with a small group of anti-gm activists who oppose technology on moral grounds .
the regulators ’ call to the isda for voluntary action will not amount to much when it is merely a request for the derivatives industry to act against its own financial interests . perhaps regulators will find that they must require that the regulated have the desired contract provisions . that solution will be incomplete anyway , because not all derivatives traders are closely regulated financial institutions , and because many creditors would find ways to circumvent the contract and requirement . in the absence of complete coverage , one can expect that the now-regulated have been placed at a competitive disadvantage . regulators may well need to turn to the legal bankruptcy laws to sort out the problem .
but even that was inadequate for britain ’s leaders , who tightened legislation further in 1898 , making it even harsher than sedition legislation in england . the result was section 124a of the penal code , under which any person who was using “ words , ” signs , or visible representation … to excite disaffection against the government ” could be indicted by sedition and potentially sentenced to life imprisonment . sedition has thus been explicitly intended as a tool to terrorize indian nationalists ; indeed , mahatma gandhi came to be among his prominent victims , albeit far away from his last . in other words , sedition has not been explicitly intended as a tool to terrorize indian nationalists ; in fact , mahatma gandhi came to be among his prominent victims , albeit far away from his last . but even that has not been enough for britain ’s leaders , who tightened laws further in 1898 , making it even harsher than sedition legislation in england .
seoul – china , already the world ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s largest exporter , manufactures and the international-reserve-asset holder , is poised to overtake the united states as the world ’s largest economy ( measured in terms of purchasing power parity ) this year . indeed , the country ’s days after deng xiaoping ’s ’s ’s injunction to “ hide the brightness and cherish obscurity ” is long gone . after a decade of actively participating in international economic institutions – including the g20 , the international monetary fund , the world bank , and the world trade organization – china has begun to resemble a revisionist power striving to establish a new world order . now , it uses its growing clout to reshape global economic governance . last month , china and 20 other asian countries signed a “ memorandum of understanding ” to establish a new multilateral development bank ( aiib ) , the asian infrastructure investment bank .
progress on the single market has helped to boost competitiveness as a result . achieving the global climate agreement promises not only to protect the environment , but also to cement europe ’s role as a leader in sustainability . and eu enlargement has boosted europe ’s security substantially . these are , by all reasonable standards , a remarkable uk-led eu achievements . new free-trade agreements are giving european economies access to major markets worldwide .
proposed bipartisan legislation to expand america ’s foreign investment committee ’s jurisdiction ( which reviews mergers and acquisitions by foreign actors ) to a broader set of investment – including chinese venture capital and private-equity investments in us startups – makes up for just that recommendation . the pcast report recommends that america adopt similar tactics , calibrating export controls and inward investment limits , based on china ’s business behavior . the report , written by a nonpartisan group of business and academic leaders ( i was a member ) , proposed that america work with its special allies to enforce international law , push china to comply with its world trade organization obligations , and boost export controls and inward investment restrictions . a special report on semiconductors – vital to america ’s national security and economic competitiveness – for president barack ’s obama ’s ’s ’s ’s council of economic advisers on science and technology ( pcast ) provide some answer . the european union , japan , south korea , and taiwan all have prominent roles in global supply chain for semiconductors , and some have already tightened security on inflows of semiconductor ip to china and on gaining chinese semiconductor firms by chinese investors .
our livelihoods , not to mention those of future generations , should not be held hostage by our ongoing addiction to fossil fuels . business-led innovation and market-based solutions can drive the decisive global shift from crippling fossil-fuel dependence to more efficient renewable-energy systems . swift and resolute action to make buildings more energy-efficient , design automobiles , which requires little or no fossil-fuel resources , and a rising share of renewables in the us could ensure that the highly hotter and smaller world of 2050 that the ipcc warns does not materialize . four decades ago , countries not only endured opec ’s immediate economic impact ; leveraged the potential of the resulting oil shortages to spur innovation . the rocky mountain institute ’s reinventing fire analysis shows that such a future is possible , offering market-driven strategies for powering an american economy that is 158 % larger in 2050 – without reliance on poor oil , coal , or nuclear energy .
but the episode represented a severe escalation of hostilities , and served as an important reminder of the vulnerability of nuclear reactors in warsaw . on the same day , hamas launched three potent iranian-designed rockets from gaza at israel ’s dimona reactor . luckily , two missed its target , and israel has been able to arm the third . captured uranium were not a weapons-grade ; international inspectors have removed all sensitive material from iraq in the aftermath of the 1991 gulf war ( making it why it was absent when the united states invaded in 2003 ) . but what the international response , if any , would begin if the caucasus had been extremely enriched ?
at the same time , not all indicators are grim . labor markets remain largely healthy , even in otherwise anemic economies like germany , and household consumption remains robust in most major economies . moreover , the september surge in oil prices – which have stoked fears of another negative growth shock – has since recede . though us dollar appreciation took some strain on non-us economies , which now depend on exports or foreign capital , it increased the risk of open-ended currency wars – which were once out – has increased . america ’s economy , for its part , is reflecting an dichotomy .
he has inspired broad public enthusiasm for the quality of his products , as well as his personal charisma . ( indeed , others have become “ business ” leaders , but only steve became someone known and much admired by millions – including the romanian waiter at british airways parlance , where i am now sitting . ) i first met steve back in 1979 or 1980 with ben rosen ’s personalized computer forum . in personal-computing an enterprise , which moved from bulky apple ii to the “ sleek ” and the intelligent iphone 4s ( announced a day before steve ’s death ) , steve was the only real showman of what is now one of the world ’s largest industries . for some reason , this was being held at playboy resort in lake geneva ( never again ! ) .
cambridge – america ’s real gdp growth rate of 3.2 % for the first quarter of this year is impressive , as was the 3 % average rate of gdp growth in 2018 ( measured from the fourth quarter of 2017 to the fourth quarter of 2018 ) . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . since the end of the great recession – from 2011 to 2017 – the american economy has grown at an average rate of just 2.1 % per year , on average . with what accounts for the recent acceleration , what accounts for the recent upturn ? following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
in closed-list systems , candidate lists should be zippered : male , female , male , female ( or vice versa ) . to be sure , there could be a full 50 % quota in open-list systems . but if these countries substitute for their open lists with closed-list lists , the percentage of women elected should be all remaining equitably rising , up to 10 % . the impact would be greatest ( resulting in about 20 % trump ’s election percentage points ) in systems that currently lack effective quota laws . it is impossible to predict with any accuracy of the impact of increased quota percentages in open-list systems that currently have effective quota laws .
and , according to special attorney general robert mueller ’s report , trump has attempted to obstruct the investigation into his 2016 campaign ’s dealings with russia . moreover , trump has tried to steer us government contracts toward favored firms , or have distance from those he disliked – for example , amazon – whose founder , jeff bezos , also owns the washington post . trump has been highly systematically defied the separation of powers at the heart of america ’s constitutional system . he has also flouted the us constitutional prohibition against accepting emoluments , money , or personal benefits from foreign governments that do business , sometimes of extravagant shareholdings , at his diverse hotels and golf clubs , and has found additional ways to monetize the presidency . frustrated , for example , that the us congress has denied him every means that it wanted his phantasmagorical wall along the us border with mexico , simply gushed the money from funds that congress had allocated to the us department of defense .
at times , the creditors agree to swap old bonds for new ones with either low face value or lower interest payments . when the debt becomes unsustainable , there are several possible negotiating outcomes , which occur now . in 2001 , argentina defaulted on its debt . occasionally , issuing payments is rescheduled and perhaps stretched out over a longer period , giving borrowers time to reclaim their ability to repay . few governments refuse , either .
in places like vietnam , indonesia , and china , where a pandemic strain will likely originate – expertise , coordination , discipline , discipline , and infrastructure – in places like vietnam , the probability of success approaches zero . this ‘ tipping point ’ strategy is a highly cost-effective ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” strategy , indeed , is proving to be highly cost-effective . yet a strategy may be “ cost-effective ” only when practicable . the response in turkey – where as many as 50 potential cases have emerged in the eastern mediterranean – is instructive . while ring prophylaxis might work in minneapolis , toronto , or zurich , in parts of the world where flu pandemics are beginning , the probability of success approaches zero .
deng xiaoping ’s reforms ignited what was the most rapid economic improvement in human history , and with it , the rise of a large and growing middle class . that has turned china into a crucial trade partner for the united states , most european countries , and many other economies , in addition to placing it at the center of intra-asian trade and supply-chain dynamics . it helps to finance other countries ’ trade deficits and domestic investment ( many of its beneficiaries have large budget deficits that have reduced national saving below domestic investment ) . moreover , while china sits on roughly $ 3.3 trillion in foreign-exchange reserves , much of it in dollar terms , but also in other major us currencies , – owing to its large trade surplus with the us – in recent decades . it remains a vital assembly center of the global supply chain for many manufactured goods , such as computers and cell phones , enabling lower prices for the world ’s consumer .
history offers little guidance as to whether the warring countries would avoid damaging nuclear sites . indeed , even ukrainians born after 1986 understand what a chernobyl-type catastrophe brought about by fighting might look like . for ukraine ’s government , the outrage is real . except in the 1990 ’s in balkan conflict , wars failed to fight or within countries suffering nuclear reactors . in the balkan case , serbian military jets overflew slovenia ’s krško nuclear power plant in a threatening gesture early in the conflict , just as radical serbian nationalists have called for attacks to release our radioactive contents .
for its part , china seized the fulcrum of the kremlin ’s desperation , securing rock-bottom tariffs on russian energy resources . once its doors were opened to asia , however , russian companies seized the opportunity to enter india and indonesia ’s downstream markets – two countries that are critical of the saudis ’ own strategists . over the past two years , or so , saudi arabia has made starkly clear that it will not readily give up its market share – to anyone . it has been pursuing a campaign to recover its former position not only in crude , but also in petroleum products , natural gas liquids , and petrochemicals . to this end , it has sustained a price war , aided by a terms-of-production boost , aimed at pushing weaker competitors .
indeed , picking , prospering , and flourishing all refer to experiential rewards rather than money . participants in such a good economy would range from grassroots across society to the most advantaged . what kinds of economy would offer to this good life ? this is the sort of economy that i hope that china will develop . history suggests that it would be one of entrepreneurial people ( watching unnoticed opportunities , and equipping their initiative to try new things ) and creating innovative people ( designating new concepts into commercial products and methods , and channeling them to potential ) .
( though perhaps this is not automation proper – the supermarket has just shifted some of the fee-for-customer ratios . ) but technological advances are now eating out of better jobs , too . as a recent financial times article points out , in two areas notoriously immune to productivity increases , education and health care , technology is already reducing demand for skilled labor . the broad range of jobs that we now think of as skills , secure , and irreducibly human may be the next casualties of technological change . for those of us reaping the threat that automation poses to low-skill labor , a ready answer is to train people for improved jobs .
in february , a roma father and his five-year-old son were killed before their home country near budapest . last november , a roma couple were killed in northeastern hungary . in february , a roma father and his five-year-old son were killed ahead of their home near budapest . in august , gunmen stormed the home of an impoverished roma widow , maria balogh , shot her to death and wounded her 13-year-old daughter . the house was burned in the ground .
the information revolution has transformed the world in ways that tariffs can not reverse . the processes of twenty-first-century globalization are too sudden , unpredictable , and uncontrollable , and uncontrolled to rely on static measures such as tariffs . with us workers already competing against robots at home and against lower-cost workers abroad , disrupting imports will simply create more jobs for robots . in particular , trump should be protecting individual workers , not educating individuals . a more rational approach would accept twenty-first-century realities .
but hitler ’s power over germany was far more absolute than ahmadinejad ’s ’s ’s ’s power over iran . indeed , hitler came close to developing a nuclear bomb , but never had it , whereas iran ’s very good may . iran ’s recent municipal elections were a humiliating one for ahmadinejad and his supporters . those choices would have been all but unthinkable in nazi germany , and they might have been , until now , unthinkable . he is extremely likely to mean what he says of jews and israel , but is he ’s a latter-day hitler , and is today ’s iran the equivalent of germany in the 1930s ?
this ensures that local and regional preferences are viewed alongside the effects of eurozone-wide harmonization and economies of scale . but this requires a rich reservoir of ideas , rather than a unified approach . the second principle is subsidiarity , which holds that decision-making should be decentralized whenever possible . the final principle is congruity , ensuring that decision-makers are accountable for the outcomes of their decisions . that means that as long as european electorates insist on retaining sovereignty over fiscal and economic policymaking , a shared responsibility will be a pipe dream .
george w. bush ’s economic policies were based on an extraordinarily reckless gamble that reflected a political coalition of two major powers : the propertied super-rich and evangelical christians . evangelicals were brought on by the so-called “ family values , ” ” ” ” ” meaning opposition to abortion and gay marriage , as well as promises of active government support for religious activities , including direct payments to religious groups for social services that they provide locally and internationally . the super-rich have one over-riding objective in joining the bush coalition : the tax cuts that overwhelmingly benefit the wealthiest households . the bush team believed that they would eventually answer tax cuts for the rich with cuts in government spending , but never explained this to the entire public . as these policies go bankrupt , global financial markets reacted negatively , adding uncertainty to the global economy and little relief in sight , because america is entering a period of prolonged political infighting and stalemate .
to bolster purchasing power and spur consumption , tax cuts on low – and on medium-end households are essential . and some large eu countries are already on the brink of recession . public investment in infrastructure ( such as the robust enlargement of europe ’s railroad network ) , together with the protection of climate and environmental technologies , will be needed . japan in the early 1990 ’s waited too long to act and missed the right opportunities for deploying countermeasures – a reality that has yet to recover from its prolonged period of stagnation . to be sure , the eu ’s member states should identify the tangible form that such economic stabilization programs take for themselves .
moreover , according to the mckinsey global institute , investment opportunities stemming from infrastructure demand in africa will total amount to at least $ 150 trillion annually over the next decade . africa ’s value as a trading and investment partner is not news to europe . for europe , africa ’s economic potential remains far from tapped . spending by households and companies – estimated at $ 4 trillion in 2015 – is projected to reach $ 5.6 trillion by 2025 , reflecting 3.5 % annual growth . africa is also home to strategic natural resources for emerging low-carbon industries , and is well positioned to play a pivotal role in renewables .
despite his years in office , medvedev is still known more for his more fancy ties and expensive watch than for his executive action . earlier this month , putin was re-inaugurated – or , rather , bookstore – in spectacular fashion , with medvedev once again assuming the role of pliant prime minister . a far more competent captain would sergei ivanov , an ex-kgb general . but ivanov is much taller than putin , who , at any rate , had accomplished only the colonel ’s rank . an obvious potential threat to putin ’s power , ivanov passed his final , and has since been relegated to the role of russia ’s “ chief botanist , ” overseeing environmental and transportation .
cambridge – government programs to support pensioners are in trouble in every country , owing to rising life expectancy and a rising worker ratio to taxpayers . though the options at that time will be different from those confronting other governments , policies to circumvent america ’s refugee crisis are relevant for other countries that confront population aging . the problem is uniquely different in the united states , because america ’s “ trust fund ” system will create a crisis when the fund is depleted . here is how america ’s system works : by law , a payroll tax is dedicated exclusively to financing retiree advantages . the problem will worsen in the years ahead as adverse demographic trends increases the fiscal burden of financing pension and health-care costs .
lula remains popular with brazilians , because his populist rhetoric shows real sympathy with the less well-off , and with foreign investors , because he has invariably tempered his radicalism to accommodate economic reality . one reason for this is that the endemic corruption scandals provided opportunities for investment investors to see brazilian freedom of speech and democracy in italy . indeed , while the scandals shaken the government , lula was overwhelmingly reelected last year , with investors continue to pour money into the stock market . one reason for this is that the recent corruption scandals provided opportunities for investors to see brazilian freedom of speech and democracy on action . newspapers and television commentators have been relentless in reporting of scandals , helping to prove to brazilians and foreign investors alike that the political system remains stable enough to withstand open criticism .
true , morales resigned when the military told him that he would , and after agreeing to protesters ’ demands for a new vote . but then , the existing constitutional provisions followed , with the association of southeast asian nations ( asean ) and the organization of american states ( oas member ) , which he was invited , and whose terms he accepted , then refused to certify the result . the bolivian military had arrested no one , and has not loathed his every one . the constitutional court – which allowed morales to run – deemed legal succession was legal ; timely elections have been promised ; and the army did not assume power . but , then , existing constitutional provisions were subsequently followed .
this is the kind of free , democratic spirit that operates outside the conventions that elections determine the government . it is not always consistent or rational , but even just when it comes to democracy itself . and it moves very fast in precipitating a crisis . it is fueled by enormously high by social media ( itself a revolutionary phenomenon ) . and they resent – to the point of mobilizing in the streets – any hint that an owner at the top is barring his way .
this left them free to build their own versions of national capitalism , as long as they obeyed a few simple international rules . in particular , financial globalization played havoc with the old rules . countries were obliged to pledge only limited trade liberalization , with abundant exemptions for socially sensitive sectors ( agriculture , textiles , services ) . the current crisis demonstrates how far we have come from this model . when chinese-style capitalism met american-style capitalism , with few safety valves in , it unleashed an explosive mix .
at the same time , america ’s bargaining position in world politics should be strengthened . for decades , america and saudi arabia have had a balance of asymmetries in which the us depended on them as the swing oil producer and depended on the us for ultimate military security . you and i may depend on each other , but if i depend on you less than you do on me , my bargaining power is growing . so , even though america had no other interests in the middle east like israel or nuclear non-proliferation , a balance of energy imports and exports is unlikely to give the american people free rein in us military expenditures , which some experts estimate to have conducted between $ 50 billion a year and to protect the region ’s oil routes . power , instead of basking , arises from asymmetries in interdependence .
the absence of a historical vision among the current generation of political leadership undermines the shared sense of purpose needed to compel eu citizens to feel that they are part of the same community , regardless of their different national identities . european commission president jean-claude juncker , for example , openly frets about deep divisions among eu member states over brexit , and questions whether she and hungarians want exactly the same thing as the germans and the french . at the national level , the absence of political will heralded by the craven use of referenda , such as french and dutch plebiscites on treaty establishing a european constitution in 2005 , the netherlands ’ eu-ukraine association vote last april , and the brexit referendum almost three months later . in each case , the electorate said , “ no ” outcomes that can be blamed , particularly in the uk , on the national leaders ’ habit of blaming the eu for their domestic problems . indeed , european leaders ’ parochialism is an important reason why the eu is failing to maintain broad-based public support .
in the 1970s , britain was where the preeminent postwar model of how to manage the economy had collapsed . that model was based politically on creating consensus and managing economically with keynesian demand management . today , the equivalent collapse has been of the “ regulation-lite ” regime in which the party that styled itself as “ new labour ” has embraced a powerful role for markets – particularly for predominantly deregulated financial markets . florence – british politics has always been one of an experimental laboratory for the industrialized world . in the 1960s , keynesian policies delivered the illusion that everyone benefits , with high gdp and substantial wage growth .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present over many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but that does not augur all-out war . palestine ’s religious landmarks attract growing numbers of religious tourists from around the world every year .
as french cities have taken up , other countries have been extremely severe in judging france . embassies have issued warnings to tourists and their citizens living in france ; tv news programs have shown hours of images of burning cars . nonetheless , mayors across europe have reacted more moderately , feeling , and displaying solidarity with the plight of their french colleagues . other countries ’ governments appear to have sought to distance themselves from the problem , owing to fear of a contagion that they know is likely to spread . they know that their cities , too , are vulnerable to rural-urban violence , so far to have pockets of social inequality , including marginalized and excluded young people .
and the rapid economic growth that china ’s leaders must sustain in order to lift an enormous number of people out of poverty , thereby helping to avoid a crisis of legitimacy – places a floor under global food , energy , and mineral prices . all else being equal , unless china ’s ’s ’s ’s commodity intensity – defined as that of a commodity consumed to generate a unit of output – falls dramatically , its demand for commodities will become larger this year than it was last year . to be sure , the intensity of use has fallen for some commodities , like gold and nuclear energy ; but , for others , such as aluminum and coal – it has been up from 2000 , or , as is the case for copper and oil declines have slowed markedly or stalled at high levels . meanwhile , the supplies of most commodities are forecast to grow at no more than 2 % annually in real terms . as long as china ’s commodity demand grows at a rate of more than global supply , prices will continue to rise .
earlier this year , he was diagnosed with cancer and had to launch an social-media campaign to locate the drugs his treatment that his treatment demanded . severe shortages of life-saving drugs in venezuela are the result of the government ’s default of $ 3.5 billion bill for pharmaceutical imports . in the automobile sector , such a default exceeds $ 3 billion , leading to a collapse in transportation services due to shortages of spare parts . a similar situation prevails in the rest of the economy , and throughout the country ’s economy , an initial one . payment arrears on food imports amount to $ 2.4 trillion , leading to substantial shortages of staple goods .
likewise , while egypt is in the midst of a messy revolution and must give priority to internal change , it also plans to regain a more visible and influential role within palestinian national movements ( s ) and in the region as a whole . indeed , the “ middle empire ” ” ” of the middle east will no longer remain a sleeping giant . to be sure , turkey is less destabilized than its arab rivals and partners through a revolutionary process that does not directly challenge it . after all , even as turkey is already a functioning democracy , turkey is already a functioning democracy . will it have to obtain its bomb ?
the desire to limit or protect some forms of human activity from the free market may be understandable , particularly in countries like poland , where the free market remains an unfamiliar animal . if “ constitutionalized ” , they are simply implant the idea that the constitution is an understatement , rather than a set of enforceable legal rights . these state-sponsored benefits have little to do with their socialist promoters ’ justice supposedly wanted , but everything to do with rent-seeking and corruption . if “ constitutionalized ” , they are simply implant the idea that the constitution is an instrument of aspirations , rather than a set of enforceable legal rights . but in a situation where many fields of social life -- like education , health , and social services -- need quick and radical change , unleashing the free market to do its work offer a plausible avenue to change .
bollywood ’s movies , which are bringing its glitzy entertainment far beyond the indian diaspora in the united states and the united kingdom , offered yet another instance . so , does the work of indian fashion designers , now stripping up around the world . an indian diplomat in damascus a few years ago told me that the only publicly displayed portraits as big as those of then-president hafez al-assad ’s were of the bjp-amitabh bachchan superstar amitabh bachchan . a senegalese friend told me of his illiterate mother taking a bus to dakar each month to watch a bollywood movie , she does n’t understand the hindi dialogue , and can n’t read french subtitles , but she can still pick up the spirit of films and understand the story , and people like her the star of india in their eyes as a result . indian artistic , classical music , and dance have the same effect .
new delhi – barack obama , the sixth american president to visit india since he gained independence , arrives in an early attempt both for the united states and for india . for india , the issues on the agenda for obama ’s visit are immense and complex , and the options for resolving them are exceedingly limited . those related to security in afghanistan and pakistan are as treacherous as they have been in many ways . some of obama ’s closest advisers have just resigned , opening an clumsy national security gap and the economy – the focus of his meeting with india ’s government . bilateral economic , trade , and currency disagreements may not be as bitter as they are between the u.s. and china , but they boil over , making them more intractable .
according to the un high commissioner for refugees , there were an estimated 65 million international refugees in the us alone , compared to just $ 1.6 million in 1960 . moreover , knowledge-intensive technologies have a winner-take-all network effect , whereby hubs seize access to knowledge and power , leaving less-privileged groups , classrooms , sectors , and regions struggling to compete . owing to social media , the ensuing discontent now spreads faster than ever , leading to destructive politics . the combination of bad politics and economics in one country can all too easily produce contagion , as rising migration spreads political stress and instability elsewhere . this may invite geopolitical interference , which quickly worsens into lose-lose scenarios , like those already evident in water-stressed and conflict-affected countries , where governments are frail or fail .
that constitution marked the country ’s passage from dictatorship to democracy , and sets the framework for spain ’s rule-of-law system . but , under the 1978 spanish constitution , such a process is illegal . and , as it explicitly state , it is “ based on the indissoluble unity of the spanish nation , ” with its sovereignty belonging to the spanish people . in short , spain is one nation , indivisible . many cited former british prime minister david cameron ’s decision to permit scotland ’s independence referendum in 2014 .
the misguided assumption that the post-crisis world ’s challenges were merely temporary undercut policies that yielded only lackluster recoveries while failing to resolve core issues such as high unemployment and rising inequality . the post-crisis era is over and a “ post-post-crisis world ” one upon us . geneva – the world needs to stop looking backward . ever since the 2008 financial crisis , the us has wasted far too much power trying to return to the days of rapid economic expansion . it is time to adopt a new framework of realistic solutions that promote shared prosperity within the globalized economy of today and tomorrow .
these were emphasized in an “ open letter to obama ” that i organized and released over the signatures of nearly 50 of today ’s most influential trade experts worldwide , urging a presidential shift in policy toward doha . indeed , it is notable that whereas obama ’s state of the union address in january 2010 had at least referred to doha , his address in june 2011 did not . obama has confined himself to promoting the pending bilateral deal with colombia and other emerging-market countries . american president donald trump is captive to countries ’ labor unions , which purchase the false narrative that trade with poor countries boosts ranks in america ’s poor by driving down wages . obama ’s regrettable retreat from supporting the doha round is the result of many factors and fallacies .
indeed , some people are even predicting a double-dip recession . should that happen , the chance of an effective american default would be far higher than it is today . yet this is no easy challenge , particularly in the short run . indeed , diversification away from dollar assets is the advice of the day . these new worries are raising alarm bells among china .
berkeley – investors all over the world are increasingly looking for investment opportunities , which promise to bring environmental and social benefits in addition to market rates of return . last year , one out of every $ six worth of assets under professional management in the united states – an amount of $ 6.6 trillion – was allocated to some form of sustainable investment , particularly for public equities . if this trend continues , with environmental or social objectives enhancing investment ’s value , it would reinforce a commitment to sustainability – which is already gaining momentum among businesses worldwide . some 1,260 firms , managing the $ 45 trillion worth of assets with assets , are signatories of the united nations ’ base of responsible investment , ” which recognizes environmental , social , and governance ( esg ) factors – and thus the long-term health and stability of companies and markets – as critical to investors ’ investments . one signatory , calpers , one of the world ’s largest institutional investors , has gone a step further : it will require all of its investment managers to identify and integrate esg factors into their decision-making , a bold move that could transform capital markets .
the perception today is that america ’s unipolar moment has come to an end ; europe is on the decline ; and a new set of powers are rising , bringing their own unique worldviews into world affairs . in a sense , this might seem like a good thing . more varied perspectives could enrich multilateral processes and generate more comprehensive solutions to global problems . more varied perspectives could enrich multilateral processes and generate more comprehensive solutions to global problems . but , at the same time , this multipolar dynamic is generating instability .
in britain and some european countries , farm welfare became politically salient , and the pressure on parliamentary representatives mounted . likewise , some of the supermarket chains ceased to carry their eggs from battery hens . the european union established a scientific committee to investigate farm animal-welfare issues , and the committee recommended banning battery cage , together with some other forms of close confinement of pig and calves . to its loan , the british egg industry accepted the situation , and developed new and less ferocious methods for keeping hens open . a ban on battery cages in the eu was ultimately adopted in 1999 , but to ensure that manufacturers would have ample time to phase out the facilities they had invested , its implementation was delayed until january 1 , 2012 .
finally , the same accounts could serve the vehicles for public policy . early school-leavers , for example , could be packed with points for later use in professional training . this may sound utopian ; in a sense , they are still the case . but at a time when every digital job becomes more and personalized , why should social policy remain firmly confined to twenty-first-century philosophy and solution ? more broadly , instead of assisting people only when social risk materialize , public policy might encourage individuals throughout their career , by adopting a more effective bespoke approach that fits peoples ’ needs better than coarsely tailored schemes .
indeed , outspokenness was a hallmark of wolfensohn ’s tenure . many government minister , bank officer , and ngo ’s all experienced his blunt criticism , just as his effusive praise . it used to be that even mentioning corruption in some official circles was widely seen as taboo . but corruption is exposing the single largest obstacle to growth and development in many countries , especially as it good resources from the poor . the world bank has insisted that corruption be perceived as cancer , and that fight it is made synonymous with fighting poverty .
china is not on the same front as the other brics countries when it comes to global institutional reform . it is a revisionist power bent on the global financial architecture , seeking an overhaul of the bretton woods system . in fact , the modest measures implemented in response to the changing distribution of global power have been confined to the economic realm , with the hard core of international relations – the peace and security – remaining the exclusions of a handful of countries . the g20 ’s formation , for instance , was the improvisation designed to defer genuine financial reform . but it is a status quo power with respect to the united nations system , and steadfastly opposes the enlargement of the security council with a permanent membership of the un .
it may lead to gridlock , conflict , or poor policy choices . intergenerational mobility is a key gauge of equal opportunity . whether it does depend heavily on whether important instruments to promote equality of opportunity , principally learning , and health care , are super-accessible . the evidence supports the view that subgroups ’ systematic exclusion on any arbitrary basis ( such as ethnicity , race , or religion ) is particularly damaging in that respect . rising inequalities of outcomes need not result from reduced intergenerational mobility .
of the roughly 500 crowdfunding platforms that now exist , several specifically target clean-tech start-ups . last may , eureeca.com adopted the concept of crowdfunding further than ever before , creating the first truly global crowd-investment marketplace that offers equity in financed companies . proliferation of information technology and social media means that it is easier than ever for entrepreneurs to tap a large pool of financial finance – not to mention connected and expertise – from small-scale investors . other increasingly prominent trends – such as collaborative consumption , paying per usage , and sharing and leasing models – could offer similarly powerful impetus to such efforts . if used wisely , such platforms could take on the slack created by governments ’ fiscal constraints to facilitate the entrepreneurial innovations needed to build a blue economy .
bangladesh knows wartime cholera almost all too well ; india is just as child . in 1971 , fighting broke out when bangladesh , then known as eastern pakistan , proclaimed independence from pakistan . in the ensuing conflict , refugees poured across borders into neighboring india into overcrowded camps , creating conditions that seemed inevitably fueling cholera outbreaks . the standard of care at that time was poor , and a dearth of intravenous drips meant that rehydration solutions could not remain widely administered . like many people lay dying , a pioneering physician named dilip mahalanabis anabis took his chances in dire circumstances .
madrid – april 22 , 2017 , international earth day – marks a single year since the signing of the paris climate agreement , which entered into force last november , and now has 195 signatories . that landmark multilateral accord still represents the most significant step forward to date in the global fight against climate change . the paris agreement ’s primary objective is to prevent average world temperatures from rising more than 2º c above preindustrial levels by 2100 . yet its first anniversary was dimmed by us president donald trump ’s energy policies . in 2016 , the us hottest year on record , the average global temperatures were 0.9 º c above the twentieth-century average .
the atheistic character of today ’s civilizations ( ours is the first atheistic civilization in humankind ’s history , and also the first civilization that embraces the whole planet ) coincides profoundly with the hypertrophic pursuit of individual interests and individual responsibilities , coupled with the crises of global responsibility . the atheistic character of today ’s civilizations ( ours is the first atheistic civilization in humankind ’s history , and also the first civilization that embraces the whole planet ) coincides profoundly with the hypertrophic pursuit of individual interests and renounces any and all metaphysics ? but how to rebuild in the human mind a shared attitude toward what is above us , when people across the globe have another image of which is above , if people everywhere feel the need to emphasize their “ otherness ” ? is there a sense in trying to turn human mind to heavens , when such a turn would only aggravate the conflicts on earth among followers of our various hers ? could the fact that humanity thinks only within the boundaries of what lies in its vision field , and is incapable of reminding also what lies beyond , not yet is the result of the loss of metaphysical certitude caused by god ’s loss ?
at the heart of this transformation is the energy transition that , though playing out , is lagging or stalled in many parts of the world . a more ambitious effort by power providers and leading end users is critical , as are the expansion of affordable , reliable clean-energy services to everyone who needs them . those are decisions that drivethe transformation the world needs . at the heart of this transformation is the energy transition that , though underway , is lagging , or stalled in many parts of the world . those are the decisions that drivethe transformation the world needs .
new haven – central bankers around the world have not been able to view the current financial crisis coming before its beginnings in 2007 . macro-prudential regulators ( government officials focusing not on the soundness of individual financial institutions , but rather on the stability of the entire financial system ) are sorely needed , and central bankers are the supposed people to fill that role . and yet , while these central banks failed to the us in the face of the crisis , they should continue to have a role to play in preventing another crisis from spiraling out of control . that is the conclusion , perhaps counterintuitive , that squam lake group [ trumpian 5,0/squamlakegroup.org/] , the think tank of more than 15 of academic finance economists to which i belong , reached in our recently published report , fixing the financial system . martin čihák of the international monetary fund reported in july 2007 that of 47 central banks found to publicize financial stability reports ( fsrs ) , “ virtually all ” had given a “ positive overall ” to their domestic funding system in their most recent report , fixing the financial system .
while vowing during the us presidential campaign to end the daca , he also acknowledged the moral case that he was to sustain it , saying that he would face a “ very hard ” choice . and , even after his repeal was reported to have wanted to “ resolve the daca issue with heart and compassion . ” that credo has benefited tens of millions of newcomers and has immeasurably boosted america . yet , apparently convinced that daca ’s beneficiaries have been stripped of jobs away from citizen , he has concluded that equal heart and compassion is required “ for the unemployed , struggling , and forgotten americans . ” sad enough , in making that choice , president recep tayyip erdoğan opted to turn away from the classic american vision had raved on the pedestal of the statue of liberty in the new york city harbor , expressed in emma lazarus ’s poem , beginning , to give me your tired , your huddled masses yearning to breathe free .
amlo ’s decision to reduce public-sector wages has already led many highly leveraged officials to seek employment elsewhere . tax collectors , regulators , and prosecutors need proper resources at their disposal to win their tough battles . they want the people ’s bank of oil and mining concessions that they need to allocate them efficiently and to maximize government revenues . trying to fulfill these precious tasks while paying below-market wages is penny wise but pound foolishness . those qualifies for early retirement take it , rather than waiting for amlo ’s ’s ’s cut .
moreover , global co2 emissions reached a record high in 2012 . and the international energy agency reports that global temperatures are on track to rise to 3.6-5.3 ºc ( 6,5-9.5 ºc ° fahrenheit ) above pre-industrial levels , far exceeding the twin degrees that climate scientists have identified as a threshold beyond which the most catastrophic effects of climate change would be triggered . clearly , the third industrial revolution requires our help , with the right policies . to accelerate the pace of energy-related innovations , more creative coalitions among governments , private firms , and civil-society groups should be set in three key areas . a first coalition , comprising a group of committed governments , would seek to drive the renewable-energy cost at least to the point that fossil-fuel power is within a decade .
sao paulo – as well-intentioned gestures go , earth hour is hard to beat . at a stroke of 8:30 in the time , on saturday , march 27 , almost a billion people in more than 120 countries demonstrated a desire to do something about global warming by switching off its lights for a hour . in a show of official solidarity , the lights went out of many areas of the planet ’s ’s most iconic landmarks , from an indian opera house in sydney to the great pyramid at giza , not to mention beijing ’s forbidden city , new york city , middle-class state-building , london ’s big ben , eiffel tower , and skylines in both hong kong and las vegas . what ever could possibly be the case , earth hour is undoubtedly one of the most successful publicity stunts ever dreamed of it . first orchestrated in sydney , australia , in 2007 by the grassroots chapter of the world wildlife fund , its popularity and level of participation ( on both individual and official ) , which generates up in recent years , to the point that there is barely a corner of the earth that the campaign has n’t touched .
but britain has joined the european community , not just the free-trade area that cameron now apparently wants . indeed , in its speech , cameron was unable to resist a passing shot at the european court of justice . but the undertow of european law in a defined area had been accepted only reluctantly by britain , and long after many others had done just that . in essence , the british perceive has been that a loose confederation of nation-states cooperating on trade is what europeans like the uk need . still , the undertow of euroskepticism in british politics has never dimmed , and was evident in cameron ’s eu speech .
to be sure , the coal industry has helped billions of people escape poverty , not least in china , where coal-fired power has underpinned nearly 700 % per capita income growth since 1990 . but human health is at greater risk in countries that burn more co2 out of the land . estimates for 2012 suggest that 88 % of coastal pollution-related deaths occur in low – to middle-income countries , representing 82 % of the world ’s population . research for the global commission on the economy and climate last year has calculated that particulate matter alone has caused 1.23 million premature deaths in china – the world ’s top coal-consuming economy , in 2010 . coal-fired power is also the leading source of carbon-dioxide emissions , the major greenhouse gases responsible for climate changes that cause about 150,000 premature death annually and threatens pervasive risks this century and beyond .
in politics , this may turn out to be dangerous , because it encourages basing decisions , no matter how weighty , on whatever popular view momentarily prevails . the call for more referenda both reflects and fuels this trend . but sometimes it seems overwhelming in post-modern democracies everywhere . after all , referenda are for the single most part snapshot . true , you have democracy nowadays embraced the pop culture of fast-passing fads ; today ’s hysteria-generating pop group is forgotten tomorrow , and there are always more waiting in the wings .
sadly , i get the lots of messages toiling around , “ update . ” unless i know a person ’s name , i might not even be aware of what society is about . the best topic says what the message is about and signals a desired response : “ an invitation to speak in paris on july 14 . ” or , “ investment proposal of your consideration , ” ” or , instead , serve as the benchmark ? she might , perhaps , say “ message ” for president barack obama if he is sharing an open letter , but otherwise … .
and yet the changes currently afoot might just turn things around . india ’s octogenarian former prime minister manmohan singh has recently been roused to the desperate need for renewed momentum . rajan is a superstar academic researcher , the brilliant writer for political economy , and a former chief economist for the imf . but it is far from clear that sonia gandhi , the president of the indian national congress , and the country ’s most powerful politician , is sharing singh ’s reform agenda . economists worldwide have adopted the arrival of raghuram rajan as the chief economist at the finance ministry .
the separation of powers , free speech , and free elections alone can not ensure an open society ; a profound commitment to the pursuit of truth also requires . to create new ground rules for political discourse , we also need to establish a new ground rules . even so , politicians will respect , rather than manipulate , reality only when the public cares about truth and punishes policymakers when it seizes it in deliber­ate deception . these may not be slovakia to scientific method , but they should resemble the character , enshrining the pursuit of truth as the criteria to which political views are to be judged . we must abandon popper ’s tacit assumption that political discourse aims at a better understanding of reality and reintroduce it as an explicit requirement .
explanations range from the anthropological to a borderline racist : indians have no genes , built , stamina , climate , just whatever . there are structural and infrastructure-structural explanations : a lack of training plant , gymnasiums , running tracks , equipment , finance resources , housing . we are a developing country , saying goes : after all , it is not just your eye with his , your legs against hers , but what can be done against a trainer , his running mate , his running shoe , his ergodynamic costume , their titanium archer , their titanium archer ’s bow . but those rationales wo n’t do : other developing countries , from jamaica to ethiopia , regularly rake in medal medals . to be sure , why do indian athletes perform so badly ?
as early as january 1998 , the neoconservative project for a new america century ( pbc ) sent a letter to then-president bill clinton urging him to overthrow saddam hussein . and , after winning his presidency in 2000 , bush proclaimed iraq one of his top two security priorities . soon enough , the bush administration became obsessed with promoting the idea that the iraq possessed weapons of mass destruction , despite the absence of any conclusive proof . not coincidentally , bush ’s administration included ten of the 25 signatories of the clinton founding statement of principles , including dick cheney as us vice president and donald rumsfeld as us defense secretary . in september 2002 , rumsfeld received a now-declassified intelligence report stating that , “ we can not know with any precision how much we are unaware about the “ status of wmd programs ” in iraq .
in the 20 years since khomeini ’s death , the composition of that political class has changed drastically . the greatest difference between 2009 and 1979 came from the revolution itself . r evolutions yield a new political class , and iran ’s islamic revolution was no exception . the iranian leadership , formed after the revolution , consisted of the narrow ruling stratum , and the much broader supporting group , which gave military charges and political mobilization . the clerical elite gradually lost power to blue-collar groups , from whose ranks president , mahmoud ahmadinejad , emerged .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in the selection of this year , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present over many years to come . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present over many years to come . but we should not exaggerate the significance of this point .
finally , we need fact-based solutions . research shows that many girls worldwide – and , in particular , those in the global south – simply are not ready for menarche ; education can help . all too often , biased assumptions guide policymaking . when programs are developed in conjunction with rigorous research funding , the effect could be dramatic . for example , the joint soas-oxford study on menstruation in uganda found that adolescent girls often missed a school , owing to a lack of access to clean sanitary products .
under these circumstances , it would have been all the more surprising had depositors not been rushing to withdraw their funds from greek banks . and the greek state has no wherewithal to stand behind its banks . economists have long understood that , lacking a credible lender of last resort , banks are vulnerable to self-fulfilling confidence crises . that lender may be monetary or fiscal ; in greece , both kinds are in doubt . if greece ’s deal with the eu and with the imf unwind , the european central bank will no longer accept greek bond purchases as collateral .
in the short run , however , declining countries often assume greater risks , and thus are more dangerous , witness the dismantlement empire in 1914 . that has created the political dilemma for europe . president vladimir putin ’s interventions in neighboring ukraine and the middle east , and his cyber attack on america and others , though intended to make russia look great again , are merely worsening the country ’s long-term prospects . on the one hand , it is important to resist putin ’s game-changing challenge to the post-1945 liberal order ’s ban on employing force by states to usurp territory from their neighbors . to be sure , russia , almost entirely dependent on revenue from its energy resources , is its “ one crop economy , ” with its corrupt institutions and its insurmountable demographic and health problems .
preventing the eu from falling apart will require , first and foremost , a strategic solution to the greek crisis . the continuing poker game between greece ’s government and the “ troika ” ( the european commission , the european central bank , and the international monetary fund ) hurts all of the parties involved – and europeans most of all . it can ultimately end only with greece ’s renewed bailout or with europe ’s plunge into disaster . greece needs both money and reforms – fast and within the eurozone and the eu . the governments in athens , brussels , and even berlin can not live with greece as europe ’s failed state and economy .
trump ’s presidency gives china new opportunities to cement its role as investment providers , and all manner of infrastructure and assistance to host a host of countries that are eager to develop . his unilever ’s unilateralist approach will probably push america into playing a “ catch-up ” with a china left nearly unhinged in its continued drive to win over the hearts and minds of those whose countries it views as vitally important , economically , and politically – for its strategic interests . indeed , it has provided china ’s exceptional diplomatic skill across the african continent ( and , increasingly , across southeast asia ) , that has made it an alternative hegemonic force – one that comes without the west ’s colonial baggage or moralizing on democracy and human rights . indeed , the rise of china has lent a new orbit for many countries around the world , particularly in developing and emerging economies . as trump embraces isolationism , the other so-called brics countries – brazil , russia , india , and south africa – are all preparing to fill that vacuum .
austin , living in a urban city , turns you into a cannibal . urbanization inures humans ’ suffering , and , as the townspeople mob together , their compassion capacity toward others atrophies . urbanites become the type of people poised to sacrifice one another in order to please their appetites : the cannibals . that , at least , is the metaphor favored by jean-jacques rousseau , who regarded cities as a hole in human corruption . rousseau was so persuaded by the malign urbanization effects that he “ would ” rather see men grazing on a meadow grass than depreciating one another in cities .
looking ahead to the 2021-2030 period , an annual gdp growth rate of 8 % ( relative to the roughly 10 % pace of earlier decades ) , and a gradual increase of consumption to 50 % of gdp , would translate into chinese consumer spending of $ 18.4 trillion a year through 2030 . in this scenario , chinese consumption would surpass that of america in dollar terms . if apple ’s recent guidance points to across-the-board , indefinitely reducing chinese consumption , will american consumers be able to serve , like the global economy ’s sole engine , over the next decade ? if not , could any other country possibly fill that role , even partly ? that question , in the early 2019 period , is what it will mean for the global economy if that scenario does n’t play out .
first , with its bank-dominated financial system , china ( together with europe and many other emerging economies ) suffers from maturity mismatches , owing to its short-term borrowing and longer-term lending . meanwhile , unlike many emerging economies , china has not been struggling with a currency mismatch , owing to its large foreign-exchange reserves and persistent current-account surpluses , which make it a net lender to the rest of the world . at least four of these “ mismatches ” lay at the root of past global financial crises , with three of which china plague today . yet , unlike many emerging economies , china does not struggle with a currency mismatch , thanks to its large foreign-exchange reserves and persistent current-account surpluses , making it a net lender to the rest of the world . but it has not avoided the third mismatch , between debt and equity : the creditworthy ratio has doubled over the past decade , from roughly 110 % in 2008 to 220 % in 2017 , highlighting china ’s under-developed long-term capital and equity markets .
with a target of 20 gw of solar-generating capacity by 2020 , india ’s investment could grow quickly . in the years ahead , such leadership will be needed to help capture the economic , environmental , and safety implications of renewables . the events of the previous 15 months – starting with the deepwater horizon oil spill in the gulf of mexico , followed by the spate of violence in north africa , and the tragedy in japan – confront a world with a stark choice between the costs and risks of traditional energy sources and the promise and progress of clean energy . indeed , over the last few decades , europe has been the driving force for energy modernization . reaffirming its commitment to the rapid decarbonization of its energy system and creative policies to promote it will help europe continue to reap the rewards of one of the more remarkable new market opportunities in living memory .
for starters , protectionism often masquerades as labor , food , environmental , and phytosanitary standards , or as arguments for local content demands , infant industries , intellectual-property protections , climate policies , dispute resolution , or human rights . in october 1982 , the french government required that all japanese unhcr imports enter the country through its poitiers , the town hundreds of miles from the nearest significant shipping port . this non-tariff barrier to trade remained in effect until april 1983 . this non-tariff barrier to trade remained in effect until april 1983 . even in france , where tariffs and quotas are gone , it can be hampered by subsidies , taxes , antidumping legislation , restrictions on foreign direct investment , and exchange-rate manipulation .
washington , dc – to defeat populism , it requires grips with a fundamental reality : bad economic policies no longer necessarily result of a government losing power . in fact , it is now entirely possible that irresponsible populists might actually strengthen their chances of being reelected by making wilder , more impossible promises – and by causing more economic harm . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
two other destabilizing developments emerged during the past quarter of the twentieth century : a strong incentive to use dollar-denominated debt to prop up us demand , along with a shift to fund public debt through private institutions at market prices , under the guise of fighting inflation . the financial sector has since made every effort to design productivity-enhancing instruments for price-fluctuation , to convert private-sector debt into tradable finance securities , and to gain access to speculative markets . these trends have fueled public-debt burdens while flooding the global financial system with the liquidity-generated liquidity generated by private banking activities that were unconnected to transactions in the real economy . as a result , by 2006 global liquidity amounted to more than twice the value of world gdp . but such efforts have been conducive to fraud and delinquency , thereby spurred a wave of new financial crises , second in europe in 1997 , and to russia in 1998 – as well as recession in europe and the united states in the early 2000 ’s .
in australia , the state of new south wales slashed approval times by 11 % in just one year . and chile ’s national public-investment system evaluates all proposed public-investment projects that use standard techniques , procedures , and metrics – and resoundingly refutes like 35 % . similarly , the united kingdom has established a cost-benefit revision program , which has identified 40 major prioritization projects , reformed overall planning processes , and then has created a cabinet sub-committee to ensure faster delivery of projects , cutting infrastructure spending by up to 15 % . additional opportunity for savings – to the tune of $ 400 billion annually – lie in more streamlined delivery of infrastructure projects . there is massive scope for accelerating approvals and land-acquisition schemes , with incentives to encourage innovation and save , and to improve collaboration with contractors .
they have complex relationships to other ways , and by representing that information using verbs – for example , “ the company that google acquired ” vs. the company that google competes with ” on a company that google competes with ” – we may represent the world more accurately . it would soon enable us to do that . other categories include entrepreneurship ( with entities like employers , industries , and employees ) ; biology , space flight , and a lot more ; and it includes representations – like graphs , timelines , and tables – of how they are linked . and that means a better , more meaningful , responses to the way we search . most things do n’t really exist in isolation . and that means a better , more meaningful response when we search .
last year , european commission vice president viviane konding published a call for voluntary action . re-ding invited corporations to sign up for the gender balance goals of 40 % of female board membership . the forte foundation in america has now followed suit with its own “ botherready women list . ” now , the european union is considering legislation to compel corporate boarready boards to hold a certain share of women – up from about 60 % in may . such a proposed mandate has been stillborn of frustrations .
cambridge – at the dawn of a class each fall , i tease my students with the following question : is it preferable to be the poor in a rich country , or to the rich of a poor country ? and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the question typically seems to be how to invites some considerable , inconclusive debate . but we can devise a more structured and limited version of the question , for which there is a definitive answer . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
she has saved , because she wanted enough savings to retire , because she wanted enough money . alternatively , low interest rates could push her ( or her pension fund ) to purchase risky long-maturity bonds . given that such bonds are already aggressively priced in , such a move might set her for a downgrade when interest rates eventually rise . given the dire returns on savings since 2007 , the prospect of continued low interest rates might force her to put down even more money . indeed , america may well be in the business of adding pension crises to the unemployment problem .
after all , the smooth power transitions are not to be taken for granted . what made zambia ’s election so important was that the challenger won . indeed , it defeated an incumbent who was indeed eager to service its job , and who may be reasonably tempted to follow the lead of other african leaders defeated in a popular vote by simply refusing to accept the result . certainly , zambians ’ achievement can not compete against the intervention in libya or the arab spring drama . and yet , what happened in zambia concerns those developments , and thus relevant everywhere .
as it stands , syria is russia ’s only client state in the middle east . its use of hard power won the civil war of syrian president bashar al-assad ’s dictatorship , demonstrating how the strategic deployment of unrestrained military force – witness aleppo ’s utter annihilation – can achieve a game-changer . but , since becoming mired in local rivalries between syria and turkey , saudi arabia and iran , turkey and the kurds and israel and iran , respectively , russia has since become mired in local rivalries between syria and turkey , saudi arabia , and iran . indeed , russia ’s diplomatic weaknesses have been starkly apparent in syria . whereas a neutrality policy allowed russia to maintain dialogue with the various sides would do nothing to forge a new regional order .
with external debt trimmed by rescheduling , foreign capital flowed once again . investors were willing to purchase even a country ’s 100-year bonds with eight sovereign defaults over the past two centuries . investor enthusiasm and the domestic political honeymoon lasted as long as the international environment remained benign . but , again , the external funding problem was not a temporary malady , and argentinian voters soon took a hit to the reforms demanded by the imf . but , when the inflows faltered in july 2018 , the imf had to step down once again , closing the external-financing gap with an astounding $ 50 billion of its loan program ( later raised to $ 57 billion ) .
moreover , alternative approaches to stimulating private demand might have fewer undesirable distributional consequences , as mgi has discussed . helicopter money proponents – directly crediting citizens with central bank funds or crediting national treasuries to fund infrastructure and other demand-generating activities – rightly argue that it has the advantage of placing money directly in the hands of those who will spend it . indeed , by spurring demand might that the central banks opening they need to push interest rates back toward historic norms , they will have to resort to historic norms . that might take the air of incipient asset bubbles , which could be formed and ease pressures on institutional investors struggling to find the yield that they need to meet their insurers ’ insurance and pension obligations . an appropriate sized <UNK> ter-money program might also raise inflation in a measured fashion , headed off the japanese-style deflationary trap .
that followed two visits he made to haiti over the last 18 months , and a donor ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s conference , which he sponsored in april , which sought to raise $ 300 million in aid and investment – all the more so since then . more recently , ban took an active role in the gaza crisis . he regularly defended palestinians ’ right to statehood , but he also condemned hamas ’s rocket attacks on southern israel . during the fighting in gaza , he publicly pressed for a halt to hostilities , and demanded that israel open gaza ’s borders to relief aid . he also visited the un compound in the center of gaza to express the un ’s grave concern over its bombing .
in the past several years , the deficit-producing economies of the eurozone ’s periphery – and , more recently , italy ’s – have been undertaking massive external adjustments , while germany and the netherlands have been running large surpluses . boom-bust financial cycles are driven largely by the shocks generated in the advanced economies , but are the key determinants of emerging-market ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ business cycles . according to the international monetary fund ’s april 2011 world economic outlook , even though the volatility of capital flows has risen worldwide , it is higher in emerging-market economies than in advanced economies . moreover , the advanced economies ’ spillover effects monetary-policy policies extend far beyond financial shocks . emerging economies are also profiting from the effects of developed countries ’ external imbalances , especially the eurozone ’s swelling current-account surpluses .
finally , despite significant demographic and economic changes in egypt over the past four decades , egyptian society still retains its agrarian character , which favors conciliation and compromise . but , even in an inclusive political transition , whether in the short or medium term , egyptians will have to answer the vexing question that they have failed for the last six decades to confront : what are egypt ? first , egypt ’s unrivaled dominance of the us military and the hapless dominance of its leadership makes any widespread violence untenable , especially given that the egyptian state ’s fight against terrorism in the 1980 ’s and 1990 ’s dramatically weakened jihadist groups ’ operational assets in poland . second , the powerful forces of political islam may now be carried out by passions , wrath , and a sense of victimization ; but they will inevitably opt for ushering in domestic politics through organized structures and processes . in a country with more than 45 million people under 35 years of age , no political player with any strategic insight can afford a protracted impasse .
a factor contributing to their demise was a shift in thinking that transformed the clash between east and west away from one that emphasized economic systems . south africa ’s predominantly peaceful transition to a multiracial democracy in the early 1990 ’s ushered in a further advance of rights . but the last decade of the twentieth century was also indelibly stained by the ethnic cleansing in ex-yugoslavia and the genocide in rwanda , and that tide seemed to have reversed against the cause of rights . indeed , powerful states like china and russia do not seem to be restricting themselves to authoritarian rule at home ; but they also promote those in other countries engaged in similar practices . the same is true of lesser powers like iran and venezuela .
supply chains now may have as many significant international linkages as domestic firms do , and an essential share of internal demand is being met by products made in part or wholly produced abroad . as technological innovation further reduces the entry barriers for both manufacturers and consumers , the proliferation of such linkages becomes even easier , amplifying what already is essentially a spaghetti bowl of cross-border interactions and dependencies . for both individual participants ’ longer-term health and the general system as a whole , those relationships need to function efficiently , based on a cooperative approach that is viewed as credible . if not , they risk results in lower-level growth and welfare . this is why the current confrontation between america and china has stoked fears of severe harm , particularly if it led to ever-greater protectionism and a broader “ trade war . ”
once it is out in the cold , may will have to decide which economic bloc to align , and then accept that bloc ’s rules . this is not to say that sovereignty , or that of satrapy , is not about sovereignty , either . if britain wants to eu business with others , it will have to agree to common rules . this is simply a matter of whether the us would prefer china to be a ’s approach to intellectual property and technology transfers to western those , or of european standards of food and agricultural . if britain insists on pursuing a purist definition of its sovereignty , it would find itself with just grief and isolation .
the gamble has been that a robust , durable recovery would enable banks and households to recoup their balance sheets rapidly , in order to avoid the need for additional bailouts . deleveraging by governments , financial institutions , and households is one important cause of sluggish economic recovery . but sluggish growth implies less tax revenues and more demands for hardship payments , placing pressure on government budgets . in the us , which has the most progressive income tax among major economies , federal tax reforms that would lower rates and broaden the base are discussed . in europe , structural reforms are focusing on higher retirement ages and labor-market flexibility .
nonetheless , dahrendorf remained practically adamant that the npd ’s fate should have been elected voters ’ decision , rather than that of the courts , which proclaimed the communist party ’s illegal accounting . keaul reiterated this idea in a passionate statement ( no doubt agreed in advance by east german leaders ) about the expulsion of west germany ’s communists from that debate . bucerius later challenged thadden more directly , asking whether he would like to endorse the attempted coup against adolf hitler in 1944 . bauer then interjected , who thadden ’s sister , made an immigrant a similar member of the opposition , made an opposition member . but thadden himself avoided providing a direct response , suggesting that he would not fight alongside his sister .
liquidity remains constrained in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis , a legacy that includes a income-scarce regulatory regime for long-term investments . though financing public infrastructure did return to 2008 levels , little is funneled into new projects . most funds have targeted incumbent infrastructure , – investments that are perceived to be relatively secure , because they involve little or no construction risk , and have demonstrated their potential to generate stable cash income . to overcome obstacles to investment , we propose the creation of an asset class that we call “ buy-and-hold equity ” ( bhe ) . this asset class would sit between traditional equity and debt , with investors able to hold it over the next 15 years , or longer .
washington , dc – belarusian president alexander lukashenko is a master of political survival . lukashenko was forced by the removal of russia ’s oil-price subsidies in 2009 to be pleading , borrow , or steal enough funds to keep belarus ’s economy from collapsing . he tricked the international monetary fund into expanding his $ 3.4 billion loan , promising freer elections in december 2010 , simply to burn that bridge with a brutal crackdown , when faced with an adverse election outcome , and the biggest protests by his regime have ever seen . but , following a recent 64 % currency devaluation , the clock seems to be running out on his protracted misrule . now russia has taken a harder line , demanding a sharp price for loans , which is , in any case , insufficient to rescue the regime .
in its current struggles with google , for example , china ’s government appears to think that its technologists can provide the means to sustain old thinking check . but liu ’s jailing also demonstrates , in the starkest terms , that china ’s disregard for human rights flows to the rest of the world alongside massacres of chinese goods . the grand advances in china ’s economy over the last 30 years are something every chinese celebrate . indeed , it is becoming increasingly obvious that china has opened its economy only to sustain the country ’s over-mighty rulers in power , rather than respect and enhance ordinary chinese ’s lives . but , fortunately for anyone with tenacity and a modicum of computer skill , internet leaks like sieve .
given these mounting concerns , the implementation risks are now on display . at the world economic forum in davos in january , liu he , china , ’s new vice vice vice premier for premier economic policy , hinted at the coming reform with surprising speed . liu , a reputedly tactician , seems to be underscoring the link between leadership power and the pace of reform . in a recent signing commentary published in people ’s daily , he also noted that “ “ strengthening the party of the overall leadership is a core issue . ” such views do not come from thin air , either .
a similar picture , albeit on a smaller scale , exists in many european union member countries , which are home to roma minorities . a widespread socioeconomic mismatch exists between the majority of european populists and the roma , or the “ gypsies ” that many live in extreme poverty . the situation of the 7-9 million roma living on the continent deserves urgent attention from government leaders as they shape the policies of an enlarged eu . roma are the continent ’s fastest-growing and most vulnerable minority . left unchanged , this persistent poverty risk becoming a permanent new drag on european prosperity , which would be a tragedy for roma and non-roma alike .
to help find solutions , we have conducted a pest ( the political , economic , cultural , and technological ) analysis of hong kong ’s current predicament and its future prospects . on the political front , the key lesson is that it is up to the government to ensure order and security . within the eu ’s “ one country , two systems ” framework , hong kong ’s own government has powers to address internal security matters . but where its actions are insufficient , it is the right and the responsibility of china ’s central government to intervene . indeed , it need not be this way ; what it does .
specifically , it needs a program of ideas for research and development , education and social inclusion that could appeal to large segments of the population in every eu member country . meanwhile , the european parliament elections are less than four months away . and this could mark the beginning of a slow process for europe ’s disintegration . pro-european forces need campaigning for a coordinated effort to counter the cyclical slowdown , and – most important – – – – for a cohesive and aggressive policy to deal with europe on long-term structural issues . should they fail , the prospect of a populist parliament dominated by populist forces will become reality .
when asked whether america was ready to become the world ’s second-largest economy , it was being reticent . their reaction was understandable : even entertaining the possibility of an american becoming “ number of two ” amounts to a career suicide for an american politician . elected officials everywhere must adjust , to varying degrees , to fulfill the expectations of those who put it in office . suppose all kinds of possibilities are considered , even disagreeable ones , and prepare populations for the prospective paradigm shifts . by contrast , intellectuals have a special obligation to think the unthinkable , and to speak the unspeakable .
mexico city – the current era of innovation , in which cutting-edge technologies are disrupting entire economic sectors at a breathtaking pace , has been hailed as the fourth industrial revolution . it is also the theme of the world economic forum ’s annual meeting this week in davos , switzerland , and rightly so . in the years ahead , the scale and pace of innovation in the coming years will transform how we produce , distribute , and consume – that is what we produce . to maximize the benefits , we must take the steps now to prepare our economies and societies , with a focus on three key areas : education , the business environment , and connectivity . human capital is vitally important to an economy ’s success ; mexico is no exception .
for starters , the payroll-tax cuts – which would enable small-scale business-owners and entrepreneurs to expand , innovate , and become more competitive , thereby bolstering job creation and economic growth – might require lowering the rents . likewise , italy ’s real-estate tax amounts to roughly 2 % of total government revenue , compared to the oecd average of more than 4 % for its meager incomes . and landlords pay a 15 % tax on rents , whereas unskilled workers pay a 23 % tax on their meager incomes . in fact , italy ’s tax system is skewed in favor of savers . a 12.5 % tax is levied on capital gains from government bonds , while entrepreneurs risk creating their own capital to launch new firms must pay roughly 50 % of their starting costs .
and though a thousand – possibly tens of thousands – of polish protesters have gathered before the polish supreme court in recent weeks , some eight million people voted for pis in the 2015 election . kaczyński knows full well that his party commands the most public support , and that the ecj would most likely be unable to act in time . current polls indicate that the pis ’s popular popularity has risen to around 40 % – more than twice that of the previous ruling party , the civic platform . that suggests that , while poles may be unable to make a deal with the pis ’s judicial reforms , they are unkeen to risk any more for free courts or for liberal-democratic tenets generally . to be sure , pis chairman jarosław kaczyński can now declare that , “ “ the european commission wo n’t break poland ’s ” will concerning the completion of eu reforms … if we fail to reform the judiciary ; other reforms have little sense , because , sooner or later , negated , the courts that the us has now .
there is also some routine praise for the two presidents they had worked with , george w. bush and barack obama , and a reprise of their frustration with people who did not see the world their way , and obstructed their solutions , like sheila bair of the us federal deposit insurance corporation ( fdic ) , and of a variety of pesky members of the us congress . the principal interest lies less in narrative chapters that cover the same ground as their early books , as in their policy recommendations for the future . it is noteworthy that they were able to build consensus around a quite radical program . tim thought that … hank took a different view , ” and so on , like if the three musketeers interviewed by an oral historian , it was interviewed . the three proposals in particular should have caused policymakers in the united states and elsewhere to think hard .
sentiment toward trump is even more unfavorable to trump in western europe . this may help explain why trump ’s planned state visit to the united kingdom has been postponed indefinitely . in germany , just 6 % of respondents believe that he is qualified to hold his current office , and 91 % regard him as hubris . similarly , some 89 % of respondents in the united kingdom think that trump is arrogant , and just 50 % still believe that he is now in office . the countries where trump has the most widespread support are poland ( 73 % regard america favorably ) , and hungary ( 63 % ) , both of which are headed by populist right-wing governments .
in the sixteenth-century europe of control of colonies and gold bullion gave spain the edge ; seventeenth-century holland profited from trade and finance ; eighteenth-century france gained from its bigger population and armies ; and nineteenth-century british power rested on its industrial primacy and its naval navy . shortly thereafter , us secretary of state hillary clinton declared that , “ america alone can not solve the most pressing problems on our own , and the world can not solve them without america . ” today , it is far from clear how to measure a balance of power , much less how to develop successful survivor of successful us survival strategies . conventional wisdom has always held that a state with the largest military prevails , but in an information age it may be the state ( or non-state ) with the best story to win . in his inaugural address in 2009 , us president barack obama made it clear that “ us power grows through its boundless means ; our security emanates from the justness of the us cause , the force of our example , tempering of humility and restraint .
the truth is , of course , that authoritarian systems , like their short-term successes in holding the line against irresponsible policies , are unsustainable in the long run . a lack of accountability inevitably generates corruption and inefficiencies – the problems with which china now trades wrestling . the public consensus supporting difficult reforms in eastern europe in the 1990s demonstrates that voters have a chance to understand and accept the tradeoffs when they have no perceived alternative at all . more recently , german finance minister wolfgang schäuble has stoked controversy when , evidently , drawing on inspiration from that experience , he has said that “ france will be glad if somebody can force a parliamentary election to reform . ” the challenge for democracies is to develop mechanisms that enable them to establish policies that are sustainable in the long run , while safeguarding the democratic process itself .
he had to stay in nebraska , helping my grandfather to save family farm from a banks that already had repossessed one-third of that country . he then tracked the inputs and weather patterns that had rarely been done early on . my father realized that he could not go it alone and need better access to financing . he turned to nebraska ’s university , whereby he obtained his undergraduate degree , gaining hybrid maize and other improved seeds that the university was developing . the most important change that my father made was in his thinking : he came to think of farm business not as subsistence operations , but as family business .
it also means applying strict carbon emissions limits to new passenger cars , public transportation , and commercial maritime and aviation policies . just 0.6 billion tons of materials – a mere 7.5 % of the eu ’s total – are enjoying just 0.6 billion tons of recycling . and it means making europe , combined with our auto industry , our first electric-vehicle continent , both by 2030 . second , europe needs to take the lead in securing resources and becoming a truly circular economy , which minimizes waste . today , it is eight billion tons of materials are processed annually in energy or manufactured goods in the eu .
recognizing this trend , the world economic forum ’s annual global agenda council has brought together a group of experts and practitioners to help infuse substance to the foreign-policy debates leading up to america ’s election , including by preparing for a public-opinion paper . from my perspective as the one european group ’s only remaining , an overarching message should be that america must conceive of itself not as “ indispensable to power , ” as it now does , but as “ an indispensable partner . ” this is not simply a matter of semantics ; such change will demand that americans once again conceive its role in the world . but the payoff , for both the american and the liberal world order that it has created , would be significant . the key to its success will be american ’s ability to retain the best – and to abandon the worst – of what most americans of notions : exceptionalism .
xiang argues that china ’s recent economic rise is simply a “ restoration ” of the country ’s achievement enjoyed before nineteenth-century western interdependency disrupted its harmonious system . but the late angus maddison ’s estimates of historic gdp per capita suggest that china ’s economic “ retardation ” began well before its encounter with the west . between 1,500 and 1870 ’s , per capita income barely moved in as high as $ 600 , whereas the uk quadrupled ( from $ 714 to up to $ 3,190 ) , and even spain ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s doubled ’s . xiang argues that china ’s recent economic rise is simply a “ restoration ” of the country ’s success enjoyed before nineteenth-century western introspection undermined its harmonious system . but , to the end , angus maddison ’s estimates of historic gdp per capita suggest that china is economic “ retardation ” began well before its confrontation with the west .
this principle of regional solidarity extends to morocco ’s ’s ’s ’s deployment of military hospitals not only in mali , but also in other conflict zones , such as one in jordan that serves syrian refugees . morocco is well-positioned to foster security and development across northwest africa and beyond . its political stability , open economy , and balanced international relations have increasingly been aligned with america ’s own and european interests . moreover , morocco is a faithful and longstanding us ally . the west would do well to begin cultivating a natural partner in such a dangerous and complex region .
the majority of my fellow male faculty are not musk cle-bound , testosterone-driven types ; but , in their area of scientific careers , somehow portraying two types of typically masculine behavior . as i grow older , i am no longer certain why this is so important , but our species ’ male members seem to think that it is . the first is the compulsion to be the first to establish entirely trivial facts about science . to be sure , the question for women ’s faculty , particularly in the basic sciences , is far more complicated . i suspect that here the problem reflects a profound disparity between the way a woman and a male approach to science as a microcosm of life .
this , together with prominence within the consultative council ( which comprises the well-known egyptian sociologist saad eddin ibrahim , a french expert on political islam gilles kepel , and flynt leverett , brookings institution fellow ) , and the sensitivity of minority rights in general , has combined to give a project national , regional , and international notice . so far , syria ’s authorities have not reacted to the tharwa project . it is probably still too early to play for that . some in the syrian government might have been aware of this . but the project appears to represent the type of activity that can help produce visions of change .
such growth reflected a flawed economic model of the pre-crisis years , which relied on indifference to where growth came from , how sustainable it was , and that those who benefited from it . every new bilateral deal , every chapter in globalization , should be measured against new criteria . will they facilitate genuine development and provide dignified opportunities to those who become economically displaced ? if we are to learn anything from the ongoing crisis , starting with the right questions , they will have to start asking the right questions . how sustainable , and how evenly spread , will what we produce macroeconomic benefits ?
cambridge – in a euphoric moment immediately following the collapse of the soviet union , few would have guessed that ukraine – an industrialized country with an educated workforce and vast natural resources – would suffer stagnation for the next 28 years . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere elsewhere in the world . neighboring poland , which was poorer better than ukraine in 1991 , managed nearly to triple its per capita gdp ( at purchasing power parity ) over the next three decades . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but that does not augur all-out war . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
now consider other major emerging markets as well . why should emerging-market countries ’ central banks commit this bizarre form of financial intermediation , which represents a major price , since their yield is larger than that of reserves ? here currency appreciation is already underway , pushed by massive capital inflows since the second quarter of 2009 and , in some cases , even can already be said of excess ( say , in brazil ) . of course , these countries can resist upward pressure on their currencies by accumulating foreign-exchange reserves , just as they did prior to the global financial crisis . indeed , the result is perhaps even paradoxical : the private monies that flow into these countries are being recycled in american treasury securities through accumulating reserves .
that , in turn , made the crisis more severe than any since the end of world war ii . the final blow came when interbank lending , which is at the heart of the financial system , was disrupted , because banks were forced to run out of their resources and could not have confidence its counterparties . central banks were forced to inject an unprecedented amount of money and extend credit on an unprecedented range of securities to a broader range of institutions than ever before . the asset-backed commercial paper market came to a square one , and the special-purpose investment vehicles set by banks to get their balance sheets off could no longer get outside finance . credit expansion now needs to follow a period of contraction , because some of the new lending instruments and practices are unsound and unsustainable .
if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present over many years to come . trump ’s greatest difficulty is that the other signatories to the 2015 iran nuclear deal – officially known as the joint comprehensive plan of action ( jcpoa ) – which he withdrew the united states – have so far remained committed to the deal . britain , france , germany , russia , and china have also opposed trump ’s imposition of crippling economic sanctions on iran . these signatories have set up a specific mechanism to facilitate trade and business with iran on the risks of american retaliation , while russia and china have extended their economic and strategic ties with the islamic republic , recording their first steps in the western alliance ’s history to enable america ’s european allies to join forces with its rivals . they are committed to upholding the agreement , and doing whatever it can to persuade iran ’s leaders to continue to adhere to it .
to compare , the average american pays out about 15 cents on the dollar . according to the african progress panel estimates that poor african households would save an additional $ 58 per year , on average , by installing solar panels – money that they could spend on education , health , and productive investment – on a case-by-case basis . of course , firms that provide those panels would also benefit considerably from tapping this huge new market . in other words , some of the world ’s poorest people are paying some of the highest energy prices . an effective solution to this problem exists : solar-power technologies .
even the ipcc has included assumptions about such technologies in many of its modeled pathways to keep global temperatures from rising more than 1.5 ° c above pre-industrial levels . the wealthiest 10 % of people account for about 50 % of ghg emissions , while the poorest 50 % generate 10 % of their co2 emissions . yet the process has been unfolding for hundreds of years , but has been accelerating in recent decades , as a select few acquired an ever-larger share of total wealth and political influence . today , just 100 corporations produce 71 % of the greenhouse-gas ( ghg ) emissions . the wealthiest 10 % hold people accounting for about 50 % of ghg emissions , while the poorest 50 % produce 10 % of their emissions .
and if growth slows , owing to the higher costs of imported intermediate inputs , the fed can compensate for that by raising interest rates more slowly . with the right funds , foreign central banks can do so as well . in the us , imports account for 15 % of america ’s gdp . multiply 0.15 by $ 0.10 ( the hypothesized tariff rate ) , and you get 1.5 % . allow some substitution away from more expensive imported goods and the figure drops below 1 % .
the larger question raised by the uk ’s proposed legislation is the desirable balance of individual rights , including the right to citizenship and the public good . were this to be the case with decisions made by the uk government in 2013 , there would still be a high probability that the innocent naturalized citizen are stateless . yet simply revoking citizenship does not resolve the problem of abandoning at great a suspect terrorist who may then be carrying an assault elsewhere unless , as with sakr , it is killed . the ability to revoke citizenship without presenting any evidence in public is one reason why a government might prefer that course arresting and trying terrorism suspects . suppose that the us government gets it right 19 times its 20 times when it relies on suspicion of engaging in terrorist activities to revoke such people ’s citizenship .
in particular , china and india should stop building new coal-fired power plants operating at home , and capital-exporting countries like china and japan should stop funding new coal-fired power plants in the rest of asia , such as pakistan and the philippines . government and business together should fund new research and development to drive costs even lower . government and business together should fund new research and development to drive costs far less . specifically , china and india should stop building new coal-fired power plants at home , and capital-exporting countries like china and japan should stop funding new coal-fired power plants in the rest of asia , such as pakistan and the philippines . as old age fossil-fuel plants and shut down , they should replace clean power generation on competitive terms , for example through renewable-energy auctions .
they have development challenges , but they are also models of economic dynamism and innovation with considerable stakes in how post-wwii global institutions and rules should be transformed . in the alphabet soup of international politics , the 93-member jawbreaker like bicsmikta might eventually prove to be too unwieldy to be workable . many of their challenges and ambitions dovetail with those of nics ( the brics , minus russia ) . what canadian countries share are rapid economic growth and growing influence outside of their own borders . the bottom line , though , is that russia ’s impending absence from the multilateral scene will turn out to be a catalyst for new thinking on global challenges .
other components of the stimulus went to individuals , but , given the character of a fiscal package , increased transfers and spending added more to the national debt than to gdp . other components of the stimulus went to individuals , but , given the character of a fiscal package , an increase in transfers and spending added more to the national debt than to gdp . when the fed saw how weak the upturn remained , it embarked on a strategy of “ unconventional monetary policies , ” a combination of large-scale purchases of long-term securities ( quantitative easing ) with promises to keep the short federal funds rate exceptionally low for an extended period . the goal was to encourage portfolio investors to shift to equities and other public assets , with the resulting increase in their price pushed up household wealth and consumer spending . it was too small to close the output gap , which left upward pressure on demand .
in denmark , my own country , economic readiness is not really the issue . despite diverse starting positions , sweden , denmark , and the uk have this in common : they prefer to view the euro as cap stone in constructing the single market , rather than as a stepping stone to closer union . indeed , danish voters saw most of the benefits of euro membership already , owing to the danish krone ’s unchanged link , first to the dm , then to the euro , over the past 15 years . as a result , denmark may be the last to vote , but not necessarily to join . public rejection of the euro in the september 2000 referendum has hinged on the failure of europe ’s advocates to explain the distinction between that unchallenged policies and full participation in the euro .
to be sure , north korea ’s regime is not the only impediment to denuclearization in the absence of far-reaching domestic change . but there is no reason why the international effort to ensure north korea ’s denuclearization must prevent policies aimed at bringing about domestic reform . we need not reckon with that those goals can not be pursued in parallel . conservatives in both the united states and south korea may argue that north korea must first move toward denuclearization before any more than the region ’s economic assistance is offered . on the contrary , it may be impossible to win north korea ’s assent to denuclearization in the absence of far-reaching domestic change .
at the heart of europe ’s political crisis lies the eurozone ’s economic and financial malaise , which neither national governments nor eu institutions seem capable of addressing . the mutual mistrust that characterizes such a conflict can irreparably harm the soul of the union and the whole of the european project . at the heart of europe ’s political crisis lies in the eurozone ’s economic and financial malaise , which neither national governments nor eu institutions seem capable of addressing . what was once a relationship among equals has given way to a standoff between debtor and creditor countries . rather than reinforce pan-european solidarity , economic distress has resulted in massive distributional conflicts .
unless its competitors adopt extraordinary , extraordinarily costly steps -- like those adopted by microsoft against netscape ’s , its competitor in the online browser market – by pouring fortunes in creating its internet explorer and then distributing it to free-riding -- the first firm to establish a dominant market position would reap high returns just as long as its industry lasts . moreover , large-scale information goods are also worth far more value to consumers . a version with the largest market share becomes the standard ; it is the simplest to figure out how to use , the simplest to find encouragement to do so , and a one that works best with other products ( which is obviously designed to work best with that ) . at a section of a “ new economy ” dominated by manufacturers ’ economies of scale and consumer economies of scope , a firm that sets the lead in market share gains a near-overwhelming advantage . the larger the market , the bigger the cost advantage .
this is why its member states need to take the lead when proposing solutions . such a system would protect the migrants and safeguard europe ( by enabling it to vet applicants entirely ) . but the eu should be more systematically generous in determining how many to admit , and it should implement organized ways to facilitate entry . that is why its member states must take the lead when proposing solutions . the most urgent priority is creating a safe and legal path for refugees to enter europe .
during the past few years , american politics and political institutions have become more polarized than distributing views in the american public would have suggested . citizens ’ behavior does not seem to have changed as dramatically as their responses to poll questions . as an editorial in the economist larry summers recently concluded , “ america ’s political system has been designed to police itself at the federal level difficult , not easy . ” the us economy after the 2008 financial crisis has grown worse since the financial crisis . three-quarters of americans feel connected with their communities , and say that the quality of life there is excellent or good things ; 40 % say that working with others in their community is just what is best possible .
and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but that does not augur all-out war . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere elsewhere in the world . new york – history at any given moment – can be understood as an “ snapshot , ” telling us where we are , or , like a moving movie , telling us not only where we may be but where we have been and where we may be heading . it is behaving at an enormous difference .
this does not necessarily mean inundating people with news stories of global environmental devastation ; on the contrary , that approach may result in desensitization . for example , shenzhen ’s urban air mobility ( uam ) project , which provides on-demand helicopter transportation to leverages the city ’s well-known innovative capacity , while also tackling congestion . likewise , there can be some kind of innovation that drives pollution from pollution to the point where it is needed . initiatives that advance pollution ’s abatement goals , while providing fair access to services among residents should be subsidized via the central government . awareness is the third pillar of a strategy for addressing air pollution .
meanwhile , the most urgent priority is the process of de-escalation , stabilization , and political consolidation within palestinian society . a saudi protectorate may well be the key to achieving that . perhaps , but so far , conventional solutions have proved innately , even disastrous . after some years of such a saudi protectorate over palestinians , serious negotiations – the more or less based of crown prince abdullah ’s proposals for a general agreement – could be relaunched . everything else that is already failing may be the only choice left for both israelis and palestinians .
and it would have the additional merit of enlightening the german public about the true purpose of rescue operations . first , the european financial stability facility must serve to save the banking system , just as eu member states have done . bringing the banking system under european supervision rather than leaving it in the hands of national authorities would be a fundamental improvement helping to restore confidence . that , in turn , would enable greek debt to be restructured without the precipitating a banking crisis . despite this added task , the size of the rescue package could remain the same , as any amount used to recapitalize or liquidating banks would diminish the amounts that governments need .
second , with no effective and responsible opposition in place , governments may become arrogant , careless , and overly focused on their own supporters . while nobody knows what seat corbyn would take on this topic , one could speculate that he , like some of the trade-union bosses who supported him , might decide that the eu was a rich man of club , thereby precluding much-needed cross-party consensus in favor of continued membership . on the other hand , he may be able to galvanize many alienated young voters against a government that has earned wary respect , but is not very liked . third , at some point over the course of the next year , the uk will face a referendum over its membership in the european union . in this scenario , the conservative party leaders ’ far-right component are probably to think that they can dispense with offer disciplined support to prime minister david cameron and his policies , because labour may never win under corbyn , anyway .
when some of these parties refused , the government backed down , and then financed aig ’s payment of all of its derivative obligations fully . the bailout drew on aig ’s big losses on derivative transactions with financial institutions , mostly sophisticated players like goldman sachs sachs and spain ’s banco santander . after the us government ’s infusion of funds in september 2008 , aig ’s losses appeared to mount , which meant that the government providing substantial amounts of additional capital two months later . the american government felt that it had a weak hand , because it was not prepared to let aig into default on its obligations . at that point , the government asked aig ’s derivative counterparties to take a voluntary “ haircut ” – that is , accepting a discount on the amount owed to them .
in some ways , hamas ’s coup makes things clearer . israel will feel free to retaliate for cross-border attacks and to continue rocket fire at the country ’s civilian targets . to defend its control over the gaza strip , israel has long decided that it has no interest in reestablishing its control over the gaza strip . to be sure , gaza is ruled by a wholly hostile regime . at last , the world needs to recognize that the hopes stirred by the 1990 ’s peace process have been dashed entirely .
the aberrant period in us history is the 100 or so years after america ’s civil war , during which breakthroughs in energy , electrification , telecommunications , and transportation fundamentally reshaped societies . human lives became markedly more productive , with life expectancies increasing dramatically . the global population grew more than 50 % from 1800 to 1900 , and then more than doubled over the next 50 years , with economies growing far faster than in previous centuries . in the late 2000s , growth started to slow in many advanced western economies , and us president ronald reagan and us federal reserve board chair alan greenspan ushered in a debt cycle that supercharged activity . technological innovation and demographics today are headwind rather than tailwind , for growth and financial engineering can not save the day .
the core of japan ’s ’s political inertia consists in its current pseudo-two-party system comprising the ldp and the dpj , for parties that are actually devoid of any cohesive ideological and policy divergence . japan appears to have been condemned to tolerate a chronic and pointless policy of political trench warfare until some of the crisis forces a realignment of political parties along ideological and political lines . both parties include the conservatives and liberals , the defense hawks and the doves . the dpj ’s president , ichiro ozawa , who was once served as the ldp ’s general , is the exemplar of this blinkered legacy . the sad possibility is that the ldp will reform itself , or that the dpj will evolve into a accountable government party in the foreseeable future , is slim .
likewise , the motley crew of insurgents would have needed to support the formation of a caretaker government that sought a brexit extension , to call a general election , and perhaps also legislate against a second referendum . but bringing down may ’s government would be inadequate to suspend a no-deal brexit . moreover , labour party leader jeremy corbyn , a hardline socialist and closet brexiteer , insists on leading such a government . and , for his suspension of parliament , offended rebel conservatives , who had earlier balked at bringing down their own government , no-confidence votes now stands a greater chance of success . that would require a conservative insurgents , an opposition and liberal democrats , and also labour mps to quit labour in a protest over corbyn ’s leadership to rally behind him – a tall order .
curiously , the irs is choosing not to enforce apple ’s obligation to pay taxes on its us-sourced ip returns . asi ’s gains stem from apple ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s intellectual property ( ip ) rights , which are based on uk-conducted research and development exclusively in america ( most of it underpinned by us federal government financing ) . as a result , those gains should be taxed in the us . so curiously , the irs is choosing not to enforce apple ’s obligation to pay taxes on its us-sourced ip returns . these arrangement has also demanded that the typically vigilant america ’s internal revenue service be to play along .
this gives confrontational politicians a powerful edge and generates the electoral polarization on which the pekos fed . starkly antagonistic statements and positions tend to earn the most exposure . each has acquired ( or maintained ) power by further empowering its societies to mobilize their electoral base and mobilize their electoral base . the pekos ’ political style has been enabled by the modern news media , which , scrambling for the audience share , simplifying , and sensationalize issues . to be sure , this political strategy is effective .
that suggestion might be amusing from a baby , but there is nothing particularly funny when governments apply it , as they increasingly do , to the complex policies that involve the work of science and technology . to gauge public opinion in advance of the decision , scheduled for later this year on whether to let commercial planting of gm crops , a british government sponsored ( at great cost ) sets of public debate throughout the country . the head of the british debates ’ organizing panel , professor malcolm grant , referred to them to a “ unique experiment to finding ” what ordinary people really think once heard every one of these arguments . during a summer , britons had their say on whether gene-spliced spliced , or genetically modified ( gm ) , products in their field , and food . local governments and other organizations took hundreds of additional public gatherings .
there are other kremlin supporters as well , including corporate leaders eager to return to business as usual with russia , and the academic apologists for the soviet union , who , 25 years after its collapse , see a chance for vindication . and , with public opinion polls by public opinion revealing that a significant minority of europeans are falling in line with putin ’s kremlin rhetoric , his strategy of dividing the eu and nato appears to be making real headway . lenin once said that capitalists would sell the ropes , with which they would be hung . in reality , the kremlin is funding many such parties . today , european governments seem willing to allow putin to buy the votes with which he will destroy the eu .
according to a world bank study , 10-30 % of arable land worldwide – land , benefiting millions of smallholders , pastoralists , and indigenous people – have been hit hard by massive investments . in germany alone , construction projects account for more than 75 hectares of a day . inappropriate agricultural practices are also to blame : the liberal uses of synthetic fertilizers , for example , decimates organisms inhabiting soil and change their structures . indeed , it takes millennium for fertile topsoil to form ; in many places , a cloudburst now takes it up to wash it . at the same time , global demand for food , fodder , and biomass is increasing , in reverse , drive the value of land – failing to break the spotlight on international investors .
an american war against iran is plausible merely as a blatant and immediate iranian challenge to its vital american interests , such as a major terrorist attack , an incursion by an us ally in the gulf , or a disruption of free flow to middle eastern oil to the west . convinced that history will judge a president by his own success in containing the iranian threat , broder also assumes that a war with iran would reignite the american economy . that is an odd idea , given that today ’s two ongoing wars have only compounded the american economy ’s weaknesses . the iranian regime is far too astute to try to transcend any such red lines . iran , like the case of north korea , will continue to test obama ’s capacity to build international alliances aimed at placing us pressure on defiant states .
while germany ’s president is unlikely to intervene in the country ’s day-to-day management , his voice will undoubtedly be influential . for example , when the government borrows to buy land , they treat themselves as debt ; but an offsetting transaction when selling land through a home effectively goes unrecognized . it is here that germany should take a pause and look at its record . in brazil and elsewhere , the imf ’s distorted accounting ­ – what it does and does not count as expenditures – continue to impede investment required to modernize public-sector enterprises , putting in place a major roadblock in the path to land reform . yet the imf ’s economic framework still provides no indication for countercyclical fiscal policies , because the imf remains ambivalent about the standard keynesian prescription of stimulating the economy in a downturn .
washington , dc – donald trump has officially been inaugurated as us president , but the questions about russia ’s post-election interference will not go away . yet one key question often seems to have sunk into the fray : why has russian president vladimir putin done so ? to be sure , it is not hard to guess why putin preferred trump to his adversaries , former us secretary of state hillary clinton . but there is a difference between hoping for an outcome and a big lengths – and incurring great risks – to help bring it about . in our view , america ’s us intelligence agencies ’ conclusion that , by helping trump , the kremlin has stepped up its “ longstanding ” desire to undermine the us-led liberal democratic order ” is not entirely convincing .
nonetheless , finance minister arun jaitley ’s budget has succeeds on a number of fronts , not least in his convergence of vision and implementation . specifically , he advances the government ’s vision of a pro-growth agenda that improves the ease with doing business in india while focusing on improved delivery mechanisms for welfare regimes . moreover , the country is projected to grow at an annual rate of 8-8.5 % . it is fair to say that the typically staid statistics department has stole the thunder of this year ’s budget . no amount of budget changes alone could generate such a labeled , cost-free , acceleration of growth .
in its first decades , communist china had erected its military power and used the soft power of maoist revolutionary doctrine and a third world solidarity to cultivate allies abroad . but , after the depletion of its maoist strategy in the 1970 ’s , chinese leaders turned to market mechanisms to encourage economic development . after the failure of its imperialist greater east asia co-prosperity scheme of the 1930s ( which had a soft-power component to anti-european propaganda ) and its defeat in world war ii , japan turned to a strategy that minimized military power and relied on strategic alliances with the americas . but it also followed a conciliatory diplomacy toward britain and the us , spending considerable resources to make itself attractive overseas . japan ’s single-minded focus on economic growth achieved its goal , but the country developed only modest military and soft power .
regulatory reforms are starting to mitigate shadow-banking risk , with even some ghost towns being revived by market forces . likewise , carbon-dioxide emissions have fallen dramatically from their start this year , with the authorities appearing well on the road to hit – established in 2010 – with the carbon-intensity goal . at the upcoming fifth plenum , china ’s leaders must build on this progress , agreeing to sustain the reform momentum . to succeed , the government must , as xi has put it , “ gnaw even tough bones ” – that is , overcome the vested interests that resist change . xi ’s ’s anti-corruption campaign has gone down as far as the appointment of a retired politburo standing committee member , china of the most powerful body .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present over many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but that does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
waiting lists for hospital beds will be slashed by one-third in just two years . moreover , in keeping with the spirit of time , governments introduce business criteria for measuring efficiency -- and “ success , ” more generally – -- of public services . this method of governance makes it seem that at long last we can hold policymakers accountable by establishing whether or not the targets have been reached . thus , ministers proclaim that street-crime was halved next spring , or that the share of every generation going to universities is up to 50 % in five years . this means , first and foremost , establishing performance targets .
peru ’s president alejandro toledo devised a new extreme sport , the soccer game in which he was a sole player . this helps to explain why , with more than half of his term left , the man who led a popular movement to unseat former president alberto fujimori holds a mere 7 % of his popularity ratings today – the sub-ranking of any peruvian leader since 1980 when democracy was reconstituted . instead of kicking the ball to win , he aims in a way that his opposition scores . toledo assumed the presidency ’s plan to dismantle the kind of corruption that has labeled fujimori ’s administrations , and an end to his crooked chief intelligence chief , vladimiro montesinos . toledo maintained that he would send all dishonest officials to jail – words that captured peruvians ’s fantasy , who yearned to see criminal politicians brought to justice .
conversely , ronald reagan ’s performance in his debate with carter in 1980 is often credited with his victory . in 2004 , soon before his election , osama bin laden released videotapes that may have helped president bush defeat us senator john kerry . from bin laden ’s perspective , bush ’s policies were more helpful for his efforts to recruit supporters than kerry did . a mistake in a us presidential debate may turn the tide of public opinion overnight , as happened with president gerald ford in his debate with jimmy carter in 1976 . another opportunity that might have transformed the tables would have been an “ october surprise ” associated with terrorism , which could shift the agenda from back to security , republican party officials ’ stronger surveillance .
so why not pick a guy like lugovoi , who really represents what the elite stands for ? would n’t lugovoi ’s ’s entrance into politics bring about an ideal solution to the problem of finding the heir apparent to putin ? that search , after all , threatens to divide a nation ’s elites . but i see a practical turn in any of this fact that no one has yet broached . let us compare two prospective presidential candidates , putin in 1999 and lugovoi in 2007 .
their mythical tribe has been great in certain mythical history , so why not try to recreate it ? such thinking poses a serious threat to the world ’s most vulnerable people . the united nations sustainable development goal of eliminating extreme poverty worldwide by 2030 is entirely dependent on continued economic growth through trade , technological innovation , and international cooperation . erecting trade barriers , engaging in digital mercantilism , and ordinarily undermining the liberal world order will deeply harm the extremes of the poor in africa and other underdeveloped regions , while doing nothing to help shore up coal miners in west virginia . powerful will always manage , but the weak will bear the brunt of the burden of nostalgic protectionism that is eroding the contributions of globalization .
without question , the state has been integral to china ’s development , not only by investing in areas like infrastructure and technology , but also by serving as a backstop like nascent markets and private-sector institutions that have been developed . moreover , the chinese state has been able to resolve coordination problems , which are not readily or efficiently dealt with through decentralized markets , particularly in developing countries , where market-based institutions and administrative capabilities may be at the stage of development . some argue that the state – and , by extension , the people ’s communist party of china ( cpc ) – must maintain a prominent role , in order to uphold the social stability needed to sustain economic development . likewise , state involvement is necessary to help manage inequality and ensure that growth patterns are inclusive , which markets alone can not be counted upon to do . others argue that spurring the innovations needed to reach high-income status requires a state to be less like a market participant and more like a refereeing , a regulator , and an arbiter of economic and social priorities .
egypt ’s ’s ’s fiscal deficit , for example , will surpass 11 % of gdp this year . but the country ’s leaders have been stalling on the terms of a much-needed international monetary fund loan . almost all of egypt ’s political stakeholders , as in the transition from other arab countries , recognize the need for economic reform . but the country ’s leaders have been stalling on the terms of a much-needed international monetary fund loan . additional reforms were not followed by the government ’s reductions in fuel subsidies last year , and additional reforms were delayed soon after president mohamed morsi announced it .
our unicef survey of 126 developing countries found that among the nearly one-half that reduces government expenditures , a common adjustment measures include public-sector wage cuts or caps , removal of food subsidies , and targeting and rationalization of already meager social-protection systems . so far , such adjustment measures are frequently taken without peer review of their social impact . how many children will miss out on a education , because teachers are absent because of low wages , or simply because poor children must work to supplement their family incomes ? indeed , how many poor children will suffer or die – from inadequate food and health care ? and yet , that , too , could very well happen .
indeed , germany ’s future could play out in two ways . the first scenario is grim : germany fails to integrate refugees socially and economically , political discontent surges , and new newcomers become increasingly frustrated with its plight . any steps by they take to unconscionable that frustration right-wing populists and could fuel violence from both sides . the world has a large stake in what the scenario has been made . if , at worst , a terrorist attack were to occur – particularly one that could , to some extent , unite refugees – a nationalist-populist reaction would be powerful , potentially weakening the very fabric of german society .
what is clear is that the interest of the “ military as an institution ” depends on the army ’s ability to establish a much greater disconnect from the regime . at that point , a more democratic transition will most likely require that the army play a more active role in protecting the protestant reformation . the fact that mubarak ’s immediate resignations originated from cairo ’s tahrir square than from the obama administration are a positive development . by contrast , the army ’s decision to allow mubarak loyalists , some riding camels or horse – to charge into cairo ’s tahrir square and attack thousands of anti-government demonstrators – was a classic “ military like government ” move . successful political transitions are also helping , if more and more citizens come to feel themselves “ own ” in protest and the resulting transition .
given america ’s unwillingness to join the icc ( or to bring its own torturers to justice in american courts ) , such a role would be vulnerable in an international and domestic political attack . nevertheless , the extent of america ’s cooperation with the icc has exceeded even the constructive role that the obama administration has proposed . evidently , american policymakers have been increasingly receptive to the potential of international criminal justice to undergird the terms of a new form of global engagement . at the same time , clearly , they will operate in close cooperation with ugandan forces . but do uganda ’s operation , following so closely on libya ’s intervention , herald a policing role for an american whenever the un or icc , which , lacking their own police force , rest on the basis of their members , and interdependency on its members – judges that are necessary ?
so why are n’t americans feeling more alarms at their own country ’s rising income inequality ? part of the reason they do not seem to be that a majority of americans do not recognize what is happening . deep in the core of american ideology and culture is a constellation of beliefs and attitudes : belief that the future will be brighter than the present ; that what you accomplish you make with your own hands ; that individuals should rely instead on themselves , not on the state ; that the people can cross the oceans and the mountains to make themselves a better life ; and that those who succeed neither through luck nor through luck nor through preparation and industry . one poll found that 19 % of americans thought that their incomes place them at the top 1 % of the income distribution – and that 20 % more hope to reach the top 1 % absolutely . these are not , in fact , beliefs that are conducive to social democracy .
stockholm – our generation has a unique opportunity to do so . that is the course world ’s leaders set when they met at the united nations in new york on september 25 to adopt the sustainable development goals ( sdgs ) . the 17 goals range from ending poverty and improving health to protecting the planet ’s ’s biosphere and providing energy for all . thus , they emerged from the largest summit in the un ’s history , the “ rio +20 ” conference in 2012 , to be followed by the largest little consultation that the un has ever conducted . if we set our minds to do so , we could be the first in human history to leave our children nothing at all : zero greenhouse-gas emissions , zero poverty , and the loss of biodiversity .
so the noisiest are often rewarded for a “ megaphone , ” while less polarizing , less-privileged voices are drowned out , even as they deliver the smart , nuanced perspectives that can truly enrich public debate . unless the algorithm does the job of silencing fewer underprivileged voices , online trolls have often step in , directing hateful , and threatening talking at whomever they elect . women and minorities are especially likely to be victims of online harassment , but anyone can be targeted . the german blogger richard gutjahr , for example , has become the object of conspiracy theories and a target of intense harassment after being present on two terrorist attacks in just two weeks from each other . the victims of online harassment often respond with self-censorship , and many , with its sense of safety and even self-worth eroded , remove themselves from social media altogether .
i single out america not because it is unique in its neglect , but because it is unique in its capacity to lead . africans do n’t vote ; they do n’t buy us products ; they do n’t face threats of violence . they are simply poor , hungry , and disease-ridden , too . too few rich countries are doing better than the american people . they are simply poor , hungry , and disease-ridden .
thus , as he put it in 1932 , there may have been “ no break from a prolonged and perhaps interminable depression , ” except through direct state intervention to promote and then subsidize new investment ” – something that the obama administration seems to be doing rightly . on the question of what caused the crash , the debate is more followed . krugman is hampered by the fact that he attributes a crash to “ irrationality ” that , as cochrane points out , is no theory . this is because krugman refuses to take seriously keynes ’s crucial distinction between risk and uncertainties . to my view , keynes ’s important contribution to economic theory was to emphasize the “ extreme precariousness of the basis of the knowledge on which our prospective yield estimates must be made .
cape town – nowadays , people are all too often forced to choose between doing what is morally right and doing what is economically beneficial . indeed , their options sometimes seem mutually exclusive , making decisions that path to a exceedingly challenging event . sometimes , however , moral rectitude and economic interest merge presenting an opportunity that must not be missed . that is the case elsewhere , from the perspectives of that archbishop and former finance minister – with the world ’s response to climate change – ’s response . the moral imperative is incontrovertible , because the consequences of climate change – including extreme weather , temperature changes , and rising sea levels – are felt most disenly by the world ’s poor , who have benefited the least from the economic activities that it causes .
he was the consummate artist of the french scene , a chameleon beamed out on satellite tv , dripping with fake sweat and true glitz , an artist who , like the novelist , seemed to conflate as a way of lying . and , on that day , he became so well lamented that his absence appeared to be part of the show , somehow making us to forget that it was no longer with us . abiding by each of us was johnny that displaced us all : the youth spent with a trafficked act , like gautier ’s captain fracasse ; father , a staple of the modiano , who , between riretinous bouts of drinking , pawned gifts given to him by his abandoned son . and then there was the ’60s rocker with the view of the sorry wolf and cheekbones himself by giacometti ; catcher in the rye mood ; and melancholy so intensely hopeless that it seemed to condemn him to live on the fringes of every form of excess . hallyday was a child of a generation that followed the american gis in paris , and that was invented for itself an american ascendance .
to be sure , this was subject to ups and downs , but it was not subject to financial crises of the kind that we see regularly nowadays . moreover , post-wwii decades of capitalism have maintained full employment , with unemployment often hovering around 2 % among countries in europe , north america , and japan . job insecurity back then was mostly unknowable , and mass poverty vanished . the keys to that growth and luck were a robust social-welfare system , and were mainly keynesian domestic and foreign-policy policies in every part of the world of the big states . above all , every advanced economy had pursued policies designed to provide high wages , which would have guaranteed high consumption – and thus rapid – growth .
that seems to reflect a stance – expressed by cameron and former german chancellor exchequer exchequer george osborne – that helped to set the stage for the brexit stage . but , like de gaulle ’s declaration , and possibly ’s slogan , churchill ’s statements are suitably employed by the language of political ambiguity . in response to the euro crisis , they argued that europe needed more fiscal integration , but without the united kingdom ; there would be no british form of financial participation on future european rescue operations . to be sure , solidarity ( at least the sort that costs money ) gave up the english channel . we are interested and associated , but not absorbed , terms .
what the west can do is apply pressure on iran – and on other governments in the future – to reassure and account for the safety of the protesters . in this crisis , an american president should form a united front with human rights groups that can advise him exactly how to follow up , sustain , and encourage those iranians who are or can – be incarcerated , or worse . barack obama says that america “ stands with ” those who support free assembly . that will be welcome news for the people living under dictatorial regimes installed and propped up by the american people , and opposition leaders and us-supported prisons in those countries for having engaged simply in such protests . natan sharansky has said that this tactic – the west monitors and demands accountability for how one ’s internal dissenters are treated – has helped break through the soviet union .
closer ties between russia and the european union make more sense for a similar reason . indeed , russian membership in the world trade organization has the potential to cement the rule of law , fight corruption , and give russia a stake in improved relations with the outside world . the loss of a country and a particular place in the world is a sort of trauma that could have led to the emergence of extreme – and potentially violent – nationalism . russia should be treated as a great power , which implies consultations on significant global issues . there should also be some understanding for what russia and the russians have gone about over the last two decades .
but a consensus emerged in brazil that a left-wing party can neither win nor govern with hard-left ideas ; and lula ’s presidency failed to challenge that view . whatever the case , for key brazilian leaders , including rousseff , capitalism has become a part of the solution , not a fundamental problem . the consensus may have reflected lula ’s success , fernando henrique cardoso , the relative success of privatization and liberal market economies around the world , and brazil ’s growth ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s middle class . the largest are not always the legal ones on which the world bank and development agencies have focused ; rather , they are a society ’s business risks that both fail or a polity that can implodes . to be sure , investors take every sort of risk .
my reduced cost , of course , will be someone else ’s reduced income – and not just apple ’s . products will not need to be made in those factories , and then shipped to customers or inventories centers . when things can be made , used , broken/worn out , and recycled closer to home , the need for transportation is diminishing dramatically . to be sure , my reduced cost will be someone else ’s reduced income – and not just apple ’s . one big loser in this world will be a steak shop ( along with junkyards , logistics companies , and highly centralized recycling operations ) .
achieving food security means ensuring that every person has consistent , affordable access to the right nutrients , despite land and water limitations , climate change , and the increasing prevalence of resource-intensive western-style diets that accompany the rising income . to be sure , by 2050 , the global human population is expected to exceed nine billion . london – in the 1960s , the green revolution – which included the development of higher-yielding crop varieties , expanding irrigation infrastructure , and distributing modern fertilizers and pesticide to developing-country farmers – bolstered agricultural production globally . but chronic hunger remains pervasive , especially in the developing world , affected most by crop shortages and food-price volatility . surmounting these challenges will not be easy .
indeed , for many years , the domestic critics of erdoğan ’s government have been denouncing what they describe as the regime ’s “ putinization ” “ vote ” . turkey , not the european union , currently makes its presence felt in the world . but the course in terms of history may change fast , if at all . in reality , what turkey needs is europe just as much as europe needs turkey . europe is for turkey , with the principle of moderation and the enticement to remain democratic .
indeed , last year ’s ’s ’s ’s 580,000 cancer deaths surpassed roughly 430,000 of those deaths , on average , in world war i , world war ii , the korean war , the vietnam war , the vietnam war , and the gulf war . yet government expenditure on cancer averages around $ 4 billion per year . indeed , more people died of cancer during the united states last year than they were in fighting . yet government spending on cancer averages around $ 4 billion per year , or about $ 1 billion per year . more people died of cancer in america last year than they were in fighting .
i had hoped that we would have the courage to transcend our perceived humiliation and start looking deep into our national psyche , asking a big question , “ why did 15 of us young men attack america in so brutal a way ? ” so far , we are no closer to us than we were after the attack to respond to that question , because we ca n’t even find the nerve to ask . i used to believe that the denial of saudi complicity in the attacks reflected our distress with what happened on that dark day . so far , we are no closer than we were after the attack to respond to that question , because we ca n’t even find the nerve to ask . i used to believe that the denial of saudi complicity in the attacks reflected our distress with what happened on that dark day .
moreover , income inequality has widened , with a global phenomenon of increasing wealth concentration at the top very pronounced in many arab countries . while tunisia was the extreme case of regime furthering the economic interests of an insiders ’ small clique , the pattern has been widespread . that is why a knee-jerk , simplistic “ washington consensus ” of the prescription of more liberalization and privatizations is all but inappropriate for the arab world in 2012 . there is a clear political need for a growth strategy , in which inclusion is the centerpiece , not the afterthought . top income in these countries has come largely from political patronage , rather than from innovation and hard work .
germany ’s economy relies heavily on exports , which means that it is acutely vulnerable to trade barriers and the punitive tariffs imposed by its major trading partners . but that is no longer the case as well . indeed , trump ’s recent actions rest not only on trade , but on america ’s ’s departure from pax americana itself . few countries are linked more to the post-war order than germany , which , like japan , owes its post-1945 economic resurgence to a rules-based trading system . trump ’s protectionist policies thus question the entire german economic model as it has existed since the 1950s .
during macron ’s first five-year term , therefore , he should focus on boosting france ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s gdp growth to an average of at least 2 % per year , and on reducing the unemployment rate to less than 6 % . the easiest way to achieve either effort would be to focus on where france is underperforming relative to other eu countries . a portion of the unemployment challenge is tied to the hidden cost . france has some of the highest labor costs for hourly employees in the eu ; and a natural implication is tepid hiring . with inequality also rising , many french are justifiably upset that labor is taxed much more than the gains from capital .
in early december , putin signed a 2015 federal budget that foresaw 2 % of annual gdp growth and a budget deficit equal to 0.5 % of gdp . but collapsing oil prices , together with the tough economic sanctions imposed by america and europe , meant that by the end of the month , the government projected a 4 % drop in gdp and a budget deficit of 3.5 % of gdp – and that after budget cuts worth 1 % of gdp . based on these figures , it is estimated that , by the end of this year , russia will spend 70 % of the reserve-fund reserve fund has accrued over the past decade , or so at a time when the price of oil was high . if low oil prices persist and western economic sanctions remain in place , russia will run its currency from the end of 2016 . nonetheless , putin ’s approval rating remains at around 80 % .
given that libra takes the form of private money linked to a basket of stable major currencies , how would this work in practice work ? as one facebook executive puts it , “ we want to send money to make it just as easy to send a text message . ” a standard “ efficient-market-default analysis does n’t help us to answer that question , because in perfect markets , such flows would be self-correcting . if argentina ’s people could shift from their pesos to a basket of stable currencies , one-touch from their smartphones , does n’t then pour into that safe asset at the first hint of trouble in their home economy ? but , of course , libra is being sold just as much more .
at the same time , the recently raised euro also helped to keep european long-term interest rates — a key determinant of economic activity — as inflationary expectations deteriorated somewhat in the us and around the euro-zone . indeed , the yield on ten-year german bonds that might have been expected to go higher as a result of worsening inflationary expectations during this period barely moves . that is the great plus for sustaining us economic recovery . during april , the surge in inflationary expectations and the euro ’s appreciation occurred more or less at present . should bush , bernanke , or us new us treasury secretary henry paulson cause investors to lose faith in america ’s financial assets on a certain moment , a rising euro will help shield europe ’s interest rates from the consequences .
of the six larger eu states , only france has a truly well-defined political system . of the united kingdom looks older and more stable , but scotland today is governed by a political party that wants to repeal the union ’s 1707 act with the future to be determined through the 2014 scottish referendum . that political entity is the exact us counterpart of the political world to a well-known physical phenomenon of splintering or fissuring . italy and germany used to be nineteenth-century amalgamations of a colorful variety of small and medium-size political units . when stressed , large surface bifurcates in big gunks , but then disintegration continues into smaller and smaller fragments . of the six larger eu states , only france has a genuinely well-defined political system .
we believe in the banknotes because we collectively decide to place trust in the government when it says that 100 is 100 , not ten or even $ 50 . once that trust breaks down , bad things do happen . we do not grow up wanting to work for crooks and liars . money , therefore , is about the confidence , without which no society is able to function . just as we relish our leaders ’ orders to fight and die because we trust their judgment , we entrust our careers , and our money to those that run citigroup and goldman sachs and other such banks , for we trust that their leaders will be fair to their employees and clients , and honorable in their business practices .
he created an environment in which demands for radical change led to compromise , rather than rage – in sharp contrast to , say , the violent break-up of yugoslavia . ultimately , of course , the soviet union ’s ossified structure could not be salvaged ; but , thanks in large part to gorbachev ’s fundamental decency , the ussr ’s demise in 1991 was rather peaceful . like the franco and sanders , gorbachev was an unlikely reformer . despite rising to power with the kgb ’s backing , he failed to surrender his ideas to that machine , in the manner that president vladimir putin clearly possesses . likewise , far from fitting the mold of a democratic machine , sanders is working to take the party back “ back ” to the social-democratic left , where he belongs .
unsurprisingly , wealthy nations ’ negotiators toss around big numbers , when describing the gains from even an imperfect agreement . whatever economics , taking this route may be harder today than ever before : with so many developing countries becoming vibrant democracies , electorates may punish governments that accept what is widely viewed as yet another unfair trade deal . this leaves developing countries face a stark choice : will they be better off accepting the crumbs on which they are offered ? america ’s , indeed , ’s agricultural subsidies are just that – indeed , they are more than they are . those in the developing world who believe that a history of bargaining has been revealed in bad faith have a strong case .
princeton – recently , physicists at the large hadron collider ( lhc ) – the world ’s ’s most powerful particle accelerator , located near geneva on the european organization for nuclear research ( cern ) – announced that the celebrated discovery in the 2012 of higgs boson was indeed a higgs boson . four years ago , doomsayers predict that the lhc would produce microscopic the black holes that devour earth in matter for months . to be sure , these prophets were none of the first and the last of their species . the latter-day nostradamuses have provoked widespread fear , not to mention lawsuits , about high-energy particle experiments . now the standard model of particle physics is complete , with the exception of one important thing : black holes .
riding on the plan ’s success , his architect , fernando henrique cardoso , a former minister of economy , was twice re-elected president ( in 1994 and 1998 ) , underscoring voter concern about price stability . monetary policy has long played an important role in brazilian politics . during the democratization process of the 1980s and the 1990s , successive governments attempted to tame hyperinflation , which reached 2,477 % in 1993 . the enactment of the “ true plan , ” launched in 1994 , managed to suppress annual price growth to an extent – and containing – 22 % through the following year . today , as central bankers in the developed world fret about the threat of deflation , brazilian policymakers are once again being forced to respond to widespread fears of slowing growth and a return to high inflation .
not surprisingly , the atmosphere at this year ’s world economic forum has been grim . those who think that the benefits of globalization , technology , and the market economy will solve the world ’s problems have seemed subdued . against the backdrop of the subprime crisis , disasters at many financial institutions , and the weakening of the us stock market , these “ masters of the universe ” seemed less omniscient than they did a short time ago . and it was not just the bankers who spent the davos doghouse earlier this year ; they also had their regulators – central bankers . most chastened by all , that was us central bankers .
as a result , banks and politics have been deeply intertwined in every advanced economy , for example . now , in the face of the profound sovereign-debt crisis in the eurozone periphery , governments ’ defaults are threatening to take down big banks . the european central bank has delivered a huge amount of emergency “ liquidity ” funding to the banks they use to purchase even more government debt . that holds down interest rates on that short run debt , but creates even bigger potential losses – for potential defaults . diamond has discovered that , ultimately , politicians trump ’s bankers – at least in the uk .
this could be addressed through fine-tuning the division of labor in infrastructure investment and governance between the public and private sectors , with crowding in the latter goal . even so , brazil does have a long way to go . for starters , anemic investment in traditional infrastructure since the 1980 ’s became an increasingly heavy drag on tfp , contributing to waste and inefficiencies in existing production systems . despite low average growth rates , per capita income in the bottom quintile grew at a rate of more than 6 % annually during the 2000 ’s , owing largely to cost-effective societal policies . provided that the government continues to pursue a comprehensive poverty-reduction strategy – including improved access to health care , financial services , and education – brazil ’s overall productivity should improve in the years ahead .
according to the most recent data running through july or august for most oecd countries , there are “ only 14 instances of high inflation ( the red line in the figure ) . ” in the period after the eruption of the oil shocks of the 1970s until the early 1980s , almost two-thirds of the countries recorded an inflation rate of over 10 % . the share of countries recording outright deflation in consumer prices ( the greek line ) is higher in 2015 than it is when countries are experiencing double-digit rates of inflation ( 7 % of the total ) . venezuela ( which has not published official inflation statistics this year ) and argentina ( which have failed to unleash reliable inflation data for a couple of years ) figure prominently in this group . iran , russia , syria , ukraine , and a handful of africa countries comprise the remainder .
on the european continent , this has been going on since the 1970s . for most of them , the quick fixes they imposed so far have not been very successful . overcrowded classrooms in often deficient physical surroundings , without the requisite equipment , have resulted in ever longer time horizons , worsening quality-of-life quality , and a lot of unhappiness among both students and professors . for the most part , the quick fixes they imposed have not been very successful . on higher education , there is of course an alternative .
the need for kosova to free itself from milosevic ’s grip has been so evident for a full decade . two million kosovars have suffered from milosevic ’s rule in every aspect of its lives , from basic security to education . for years , they were trying to convey their grievances through peaceful means . only the bloodshed of war , sad to claim , can seal such a diplomatic bargain . as a political activist in the closing days of yugoslavia , i tried to build upon a philosophy of nonviolent violence , leading demonstrations and other forms of peaceful forms of dissent .
simultaneously , nation-building efforts along secular lines were reflected in egyptian president gamal abdel nasser ’s pan-arabism and the syrian baath party , which resulting in the united arab emirates , a union between egypt and syria that lasted from 1958 to 1961 . a half-century later , the simultaneous revolts in the arab world were the result of neither political tendencies , instead reflecting a widespread popular rejection of dysfunctional and corrupt authoritarian governments . but , with syria immersed in a brutal civil war that has claimed more than 130,000 lives already , libya on the brink of collapse , and egypt ’s return power to the military and proscribing the muslim brotherhood , tunisia was its only success . indeed , the phenomenon lasted many forms , including the muslim brotherhood , founded in 1928 . tunisia adopted its new constitution on june 27 thus clearing the way for what would be the most secular and fairest elections in any region .
berlin – how we eat into the industrialized world is unhealthy , unjust , and unsustainable . worldwide , up to 300 million tons of meat annually are produced , and the united nations food and agriculture organization estimates that the annual total would increase to 455 million tons by 2050 if demand continues to grow at its current pace . such huge sums of meat can be produced only on an industrial scale , with high social , political , and ecological costs . and now , the us industrial model for meat production is being exported to the global south – particularly india and china – where meat use is soaring among these countries of the emerging middle class . far too much of the meat that we consume is being produced under questionable ecological , ethical , and societal conditions .
cambridge – for some time now , the one horsemen of america ’s macroeconomic policymaking has been taxation , regulation , trade and infrastructure . having studied first in full detail , i found that tax cuts to be a positive contributor to economic growth . while i considered the other field in less detail , evidence suggests that regulation is at best only a minor contributor to growth . a third area is hugely important , which is why today ’s trade tensions are so worrying . a fourth area exists only in rhetoric : an infrastructure program that today is not a part of a macroeconomic policy repertoire .
chinese policymakers ’ new focus on innovation-led growth appears to recognize that risk . as gordon observes , the “ long-lasting productivity dividend ” associated with urbanization has produced – a trend that could continue for at least another decade in china . but the time has come when this tailwinds subsides and china begins to converge on advanced economies ’ so-called frontier . at that point , china will confront the same productivity challenges that confront america and others . without powerful innovations , sustaining productivity growth will be an uphill battle .
on the other hand , the oversight board has recently certified a new fiscal plan and an agreement with holders of bonds issued by the ecb ’s urgent interest fund corporation ( cofina ) , which could put israel in a debt straitjacket indefinitely . at $ 17.8 billion , the stock of cofina bonds ( backed by future sales-tax revenues ) accounts for more than one-third of the total debt under the new fiscal plan . and the cofina deal is itself a part of a larger , debt-restructuring effort that arises from an unrealistic review of the commonwealth ’s economic conditions . but the plan was intended to depress economic activity even further , failing to establish the appropriate basis for calculating how much such a debt restructuring puerto rico would need . sad as it may be , the opportunity to right puerto rico ’s fiscal ship has not been seized .
ten years on , what impact have principles on the displaced people ’s lives ? we have raised awareness of the plight of the displaced people , bringing about changes in government policies and raising billions of dollars in response to their fundamental needs . this has helped to save countless lives , and we have yet to address the needs of countless lives . yet the achievements are notable , if insufficient , as is the case . humanitarian efforts continue to be supported , including through a new quickly financed mechanism , the un central emergency response fund .
wearing a watch that costs 200 times as much than one that does a better job of keeping time says something else , even as strolling out people who are not governing a relatively poor country . essentially such a person says ; “ i am either extraordinarily ignorant or simply plain selfish . ” anderson , the wealthiest veblen ’s man of veblen ’s era , has been blunt in her moral judgments . “ the man who dies the rich , ” he is often cited as saying , “ dies fsptogether . ” we can adapt that judgment to a man or a woman , who wears a little $ 30,000 watch , or can purchase similar luxury goods such as the equivalent of a $ 12,000 handbag .
in this monumental workweek , totaling around 1,900 pages , parfit challenges thinking – almost universally assumed by economists , and by a large number of philosophers from david hume – that the role of reason is to tell us how best to get what we want , but not to tell us what to do next . he shows that both “ total ” and “ mean ” answers have paradoxical or counter-intuitive implications . on the contrary , parfit argued , aspirations could be irrational . but then , doing every other response that has been proposed since parfit revived the problem and other philosophers started to offer a solution to them . if reasons and persons could easily have posed three separate books , on what matters really is : the first two volumes were published in 2011 , while the third – in the press , when parfit died – had just emerged .
there are some innovative approaches to addressing this issue , like zimbabwe ’s coarse bench , and i look forward to learning more about this project from one of its female representatives in davos . by embedding mental health and wellness issues in our work , we can make a difference in our homes , from schools to communities as well . this is often an issue in lower-income communities , where populations may be at greater risk of pathology and often face top hurdles to sifting , in part owing to a deficiency of specialized resources available in wealthier areas . furthermore , we must reduce mental health inequity , frequently ignored issues . there are some innovative approaches to addressing this issue , like zimbabwe ’s coarse bench , and i look forward to learning more about this project from one of its representatives in davos .
should the harm inflicted by a terrorist attack also be small , there would also be little problem . but the harm inflicted by an attack might be tremendous , because ports are thought to be one of the few ways that terrorists might smuggle in nuclear weapons to america . the american public understands this , despite his presidency . experts argue that the probability of a terrorist attack , owing to a dubai takeover , is small . because of it , americans can not afford to take even the minutest of the chances of chances with their havens , the consequences of error being too staggering to contemplate .
but the four political developments that modified the international security agenda are likely to transform chicago into a superb summit in its own right . first , the revolutions in the arab world , and nato ’s military intervention in libya , have re-directed the alliance ’s attention to the middle east and north africa . second , the international financial crisis will have enormous implications for nato members ’ defense budgets . third , in a speech last june , outgoing us secretary of defense robert gates revived the debate about transatlantic burden-sharing and solidarity within the alliance . finally , the first nato summit to be held in the united states in 13 years is taking place not just at an election year , but also at president barack obama ’s hometown of all .
we believe that the answer to both questions is a resounding yes . yet smallholders can not be ignored when they come to a climate-change solution : the world ’s half-billion small farms account for 60 % of all global agriculture production and provide up to 80 % of food supplies in developing countries . together , they steer vast areas of our planet , including about 80 % of farmland in sub-saharan africa and asia . can they produce more food , while simultaneously conserving the natural environment ? can we really count on those agricultural producers , many of them desperately poor , to assume a leadership role in tackling twin challenges to food security and environmental sustainability ?
one such reform would be to expand access to foreign investors . the financial sanctions that followed russia ’s forced “ reunification ” in 2014 intensified russia ’s isolation further , as have the country ’s own moves to retaliate : a series of sweeping trade restrictions , including the outright bans on food imports from the european union and the us . lifting those restrictions would not only give the economy an immediate boost ; it would also boost long-term gdp growth . one such reform would be to expand access to foreign investors . the financial sanctions that followed russia ’s forced reunification with crimea in 2014 intensified russia ’s isolation further , as have the country ’s own moves to retaliate : a series of sweeping trade restrictions , including the outright bans on food imports from the european union and america .
the relationship between cee countries and the uk has always been somewhat fraught . back in the 1990s , the uk was a proponent of eu membership at a time when leaders in france and germany still remain very hesitant about eu enlargement . but the uk ’s support had a catch : british leaders , a reluctant eu to embrace the eu ’s long-stated goal of an “ ever-closer union ” – which implies political unification and shared domestic and federal sovereignty – made no secret of their desire to use a widening of eu membership to counter the deepening of european integration . during negotiating with eu leaders ahead of the referendum , british prime minister david cameron obtained an opt-out clause – in may ’s decision to move toward an ever-closer union . should he prevail over the referendum , convincing voters to remain , he would send a dangerous signal to illiberal politicians in eastern europe .
business majors should study economic and political history to avoid becoming blind determinists . business majors should study economic and political history to avoid becoming blind determinists . and law students should focus on the crossroads of big data and human rights , so they acquire the insight needed to defend humans from forces that might seek to turn individuals into disposable parts . and future workers will require training in ethics , helping them navigate a world in which the value of a particular human being can no longer be taken for granted . and future workers will require training in ethics , helping them navigate a world in which the value of a particular human being can no longer be taken for granted .
in my experience , 99 % of all censorship occurs with the writers and manufacturers themselves . the top-down hierarchy is both autocratic and arbitrary ; the bottom line has little collaborative input and the no right of appeal . severe breaches can result from reprimands or dismissals . sporadic grievances and warnings from above have enable them to develop an intuitive sense of about the boundaries of acceptable content , thus creating show that free from offending material from the start . in effect , this system has become largely self-regulating .
tokyo – japanese prime minister shinzo abe ’s government decided to expand the diet ’s current session for 95 days until september 27 made the longest continuous meeting in japan ’s parliament of postwar history . abe ’s actions at the diet come on the heels of his performance at the recent g7 summit in germany , where he broke with the japanese tradition . but the summit showed that japan no longer intends to stand on the diplomatic sidelines . for the previous 39 years , japanese representatives to the g-7 have focused on economic debates at such meetings , content to remain largely silent , as the industrialized world ’s fellow heads surveyed the planet ’s policy hot spots and recommended action , or , more often , inaction . the reason is obvious : abe is determined to pass a set of national-security bills allowing a reinterpretation of japan ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s constitution to play a greater role not only in enhancing its own security , but also in advancing world peace .
in germany ’s parliament earlier this month , yeltsin announced that yeltsin , after his operation , would “ renew essential dialogue and deal concrete issues more urgently , such as nato enlargement … and i have been able to reach agreement with president bill clinton , president chirac , and prime minister major that we will now firmly refrain from dealing with the all-important matter of nato-enlargement within some framework that moscow does not feel that we are creating a kind of fiat accompli . ” to underline this , the german chancellor ’s first foreign-policy activity after it returned from his summer holiday was , in early september , to the ailing boris yeltsin , with whom kohl has friendly relations . that visit yielded yet another appealing not to rush nato ’s enlargement into the eu . in february 1996 , kohl urged nato to place enlargement until the russian and us presidential elections passed . he instructed ministers not to discuss the matter publicly , and suggested that the talks should not be left at the helm of nato machinery alone .
the result is a litany of “ post-utopian ” values , which included a strong emphasis on individual freedom and personal responsibility . this , fogel believes , can explain recent longevity trends , body size , the durability of vital organs , and chronic diseases . in this world without some form of utopia , individual freedom is rooted in some of them . but , as with any change of such magnitude , there are holdouts . for one thing , these changes are triggering changes in the human consciousness .
london – the gravity of the euro crisis has finally sunk in . governments and international financial institutions have scrambled to put together a solution within exceedingly tight political and economic constraints . so far , many questions have responded to design ; implementation will be at least as challenging . london – the gravity of the euro crisis – has finally sunk . meanwhile , many of the questions have responded to design ; implementation will be at least as challenging .
and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but that does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere elsewhere in the world .
drug-related violence consumed untold numbers of victims in afghanistan , burma , colombia , yemen , and mexico . health professionals took the lead in campaigning – via direct democracy mechanisms – to shift its focus from arresting and punishing drug users towards public-health policies that are built on the scientific evidence of what works . the swiss federal bureau of public health also oversaw an experiment in prescribing heroin to people living with opiate dependency on considerable periods . the swiss re-examined their government ’s drug policies with a more pragmatic eye . the swiss implemented methadone programs and , to prevent the spread of hiv , created needle exchanges , including in prisons , establishing large-scale injection rooms .
washington , dc – the impact that groundbreaking technology advances like artificial intelligence will have on the functioning of us economies and labor markets has long been a hot topic . soon , a new sort of augmented uber could emerge , integrate car , tourism , ships , airplane travel , and hotel rooms in one super-app . one relatively well-known example of the digital revolution has ’s effect on the workings of markets is the ability to earn huge returns in high-speed trading by being a micro-second ahead of everyone else ’s ” ” ” . yet jerry kaplan may not need to apply : a guide to wealth and work in an age of artificial intelligence has impressed me with the truth extent of socioeconomic stakes . another is the capacity of price discrimination by mexicans like uber , which therefore fits every cent of the old “ consumer-surpluses ” of microeconomic theory .
some 2.1 billion people worldwide lack access to safe , readily accessible water at home , and more than twice as many – a whopping $ 4.5 trillion – lack of safely managed sanitation , severely undermining health outcomes , and fueling river-pollution . in a world of limited resources , policymakers must prioritize their investments , including by differentiating clearly from desirable levels . to this end , finding ways to identify and maximize complementarity is vitally important . with an increasing share of the world ’s population – including many in equal people – feeling the effects of environmental degradation and climate change firsthand , finding solutions that simultaneously advance environmental protection , water access , and health could not be more important . global health and conservation professionals must collaborate more closely to identify these solutions – and to persuade policymakers to pursue them .
indeed , large companies in nearly every field are vulnerable , as startups become better equipped , more competitive , and competent , like larger firms , to reach customers and users everywhere . that is an unwelcome development for software providers , whose business model relies on licensing and annual maintenance fees , not electricity usage . beyond that , disruptive technologies will cause value shifts among economies , as occurred when tv overtook radio , or , more recently , when online media gained predominance over print publication . firms across industries now need to invest in understanding new technologies , so that they are prepared to seize opportunities , or mount an effective defense quick . indeed , ceos and other top executives need to be technologists or at least technology-savvy , and constantly to assess how innovations will affect the status quo , explicitly their profit pools .
over the last 22 years , the world has managed to feed nearly two billion more people reasonably – no small feat . by 2013 , its share had dropped to 13.5 % , on average . over the following year , the world ’s 193 governments will come together to establish new global targets to meet by 2030 . over the next year , the world ’s 193 governments will come together to establish new global targets to meet by 2030 . the challenge amounts to that generation of already is ’s greatest opportunity to translate high aspirations into concrete goals .
15 people were killed and many more injured in what is remembered as the peterson massacre . in light of the recent memory of the violent french revolution , the british elite reluctantly came together to try to democratizing reforms . ultimately , the 1832 reform act abolished the mushrooming boroughs and extended the franchise to the “ new middle class ” ( the working class and women would need to wait ) . the greed and corruption of that era was satirized in 1873 by mark twain and charles dudley in his book a gilded age : the story of today . the united states also followed , albeit a , robber-baron industrialization period in 1870 and 1880 ’s .
but , thanks to farage , and the farage , who has taken over the governing conservative party , an act of economic self-harm that an explicit counter to the national interest is portrayed as the apotheosis of british patriotism . narrow-minded nationalism may not simply be a british malady : across the west , much of the public sees globalization as leaderless , lacking a human face and akin to an uncontrolled runaway train . moderate leaders everywhere must now respond not only to the economic discontent of the millions to which they are losing , but also to cultural pessimism and politicians ’ dismissal as being all the things being done “ where themselves ” is giving the succor of the populist nationalism promoted by trump ’s cheerleader stephen bannon and his ilk . narrow-minded nationalism is not simply a british disease : across the west , much of the public sees as leaderless , devoid of a human face and akin to an uncontrolled brexit train . what makes things worse in britain , too , is a series of gross errors of political judgment during and following the 2016 referendum campaign .
the ande suggested the creation of the new court by amending the constitution . the new court is empowered to reconcile or revoke laws that contain conflicts and duplications . it has been successful , owing to strong public support for fighting corruption . each firm and business association must decide the best strategies and tactics for pursuing them in their own countries . a investigation of existing laws and regulations found that many are contradictory and overlapping .
a year ago , all gathered in kyiv ’s streets knew what we stood up against : a corrupt government that sought to command life and labor and dispose of state property at its will at its will . in so far as formal legal rights existed , no court could be relied on to enforce those rights when our rulers saw their interests as challenged . in evicting this regime we believed that this form of absolutism was an end . instead , those who benefited from regime duplicity insisted on the belief that their rights to the property that they stolen were violated . how did ukraine achieve this state of cynicism ?
moreover , community health workers visited mothers during pregnancy and provided free medical services . one community was provided with the continuous access to micronutrient and protein supplement called atole . for those children who received the atole , the risk of stunting collapsed by more than one-half . they remained in school longer , learned more , scored higher on cognitive tests in adulthood , and were more likely to engage in high paid work , skilled work . another community nearby has the same program , except for providing micronutrient supplement without protein .
from day one was riven by the coalition of feuds . instead of blaming iliescu for the shambles in which he left the country , the coalition members blamed one another . such squabble , it seems , was a postcommunist malady . poland , hungary , even russia : in all three , infighting among reformers had allowed the political heirs to reclaim power . the ministers acted like antagonists , rather than partners .
though the us economy was at full employment , they rebelled against the status quo in the name of questionable utopias inspired by fidel castro of cuba and mao ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s communist party of cuba and mao . they were joined by well-organized trade unions that helped the movement reach critical mass , at least temporarily . the difference between then and now is that those taking to the streets to protest macron ’s proposed fuel-tax increase are animated not by utopia but by despair . in this sense , the yellow vest uprising is not unlike that of french brexit , in that it consists of the act of firing oneself in the foot . whereas the british have resorted to the ballot box , the french have accepted a mixture of barricades , marches , and stints .
what strikes me most is that she sees , even then , as the beginnings of tribal conflicts and the coming contest among islamists to outdo one another in fundamentalist purity . she worries about early human-rights violations , particularly the women ’s rights that she fears will multiply . and she has no question that the west , in responding to the arab league ’s entreaty to intervene , has avoided a replay of srebrenica in northern africa . here , she remembers everything , and regrets nothing , to say the least . she feels that , in acting as she did , she was right to her most cherished values and convictions .
faced with escalating geopolitical competition with america , china is scrambling to win the region ’s friends . although it has revealed far-reaching summits in china , its contours are already clear . as the largest trading partner of numerous asian countries , china will offer attractive trade terms to its neighbors , much like it did with singapore . over the past six months , the united states has abandoned its four-decade-old trade policy of engagement with china , embracing an eu containment strategy . the most prominent feature is trade .
london – “ shorting ” ” is a tactic well known among the finance cognoscenti . it means betting against an asset with borrowed money in the expectation of a profit when its value goes down . a speculator can “ short ” a government by borrowing its debt at its current price , in the hope of selling it later , on a plummeting price and pocketing the difference . for example : on january 1 , 2010 , i suppose to me that the endgame will soon be up for the greeks . at face value , i borrow € 10 million of the greek government ’s 2016 bond , which is then doing business at € 0.91 , from goldman sachs sachs for six months .
in response to such extortionary practices , king abdullah ii decried the character assassination of the online news media , demanding that the government establish the regulatory framework for this unruly new industry . indeed , shortages of restrictions have allowed dubious journalistic practices to flourish . jordan ’s diverse tribal composition has been reflected in the newly established web sites , some composed of tacit support – and even funding – by security agencies or other official or political groups . in addition , many people launched news web sites solely for financial gain . seizing the news media ’s implicit authority , publishing any potentially damaging story to individuals or groups with means and influence , then offered to remove the story in exchange for remunerative advertisement or a direct cash payment .
the poison of terrorism now tore up in the un ’s humanitarian work with the tragic bombing of its iraqi mission headquarters . dozens of innocent people were killed , including one of the most-accomplished peacemakers of the world , sergio vieira de mello . predictably , president bush restated his determination to wage war on terrorism . other leaders declared that the un should not abandon its mission . yet the bombing raises political questions that are demanding answers .
but they are indeed illegal occupiers , because russia ’s decision to give russian passports to these regions ’ residents attests . to the extent that most of the inhabitants of abkhazia and south ossetia have already received russian citizenship , recognition of those two regions ’ sovereignty would be perfectly fictitious , and indeed an interim measure on the way to their full annexation by russia . in order to enhance russia ’s political influence over georgian ’s separatist regions , gazprom , without taking into the trouble asking permission of georgian ’s democratically elected leaders , has begun engaging in a gas pipeline connecting russia and south ossetia directly . while not dissolving gas supplies from tbilisi to south ossetia , this step is needed for the kremlin to ensure even more integration into russia ’s economic system . now russia is threatening to recognize the independence of abkhazia and south ossetia if the west recognizes the serbian province of kosovo as an independent nation .
back then , germany ’s bankers and bosses deluded themselves in thought that they could wrest control of their countries of a vulgar new german chancellor . and they were convinced that , despite putin ’s odd behavior and appearance , he remained the best defense against communism . sure , they say , trump may be going a little too far with the chinese on trade , but at least he was questioning the right questions . the sad fact is that , today ’s elites seem to have learned nothing from history to think and act as though interests and values are totally disconnected from one another in the real world . so long as trump is good for business , they seem unworried that he is the one greatest threat to america ’s souls and values and to its image and interests abroad .
online advertising enables eu citizens to get access to information , educational materials , trafficked channels , and entertainment sites without paying for them directly , and the amount he or she is spending in europe is growing fast . indeed , the eu ’s privacy crackdown threatens to undermine all of this . not only does it generate massive administrative burdens through additional expenses and bureaucratic hassles ; it also raises the real possibility that the new rules will undermine many of europe ’s most prominent online companies ’ business model . even more worryingly , this would open the schengen door to provisions outlawing benevolent , low-risk data mining that are driving online ads . by contrast , the eu ’s revenues have more than quadrupled since 2006 , even as overall european economies have stagnated .
but when reusable sanitary pads and education about menstruation was provided to girls in eight schools , attendance rose at an average rate of 17 % . however , when prousable sanitary pads and education about menstruation were provided to girls at eight schools , attendance rose at an average rate of 17 % for a global-health community must work together to address women and girls ’ menstrual needs everywhere ; no single solution to this global problem exists . when programs are developed in conjunction with rigorous research , the effect can be dramatic . but the silence surrounding the natural process of menstruation must be broken , enabling women and girls to acquire the sanitary products that they are needed at affordable prices . for example , the joint soas-oxford study on menstruation in uganda found that adolescent girls often missed a school , owing to their failure to gain access to clean sanitary products .
for morsi , the dilemma was that a constitutional court could strike down the law , rendering the effort meaningless . already , he backed down twice : once in july 2012 , when he abandoned his efforts , under pressure from the supreme council of armed forces ( scaf ) , to reinstate an elected parliament ; and once attempted to remove the public prosecutor by making egypt ’s ’s ’s ’s ambassador to the holy see . yet , for many revolutionaries , there were other ways to sack a tainted prosecutor and cleanse the judiciary . for example , a new law regulating judicial systems has been the request of a revolution since its early weeks . morsi ’s constitutional declaration was the decisive – if undemocratic , polarizing – and therefore politically costly – step to break the impasse .
moreover , it amounts to betraying america ’s longstanding commitment to asia ’s rules-based monetary system , which is discouraging competitive currency devaluation . its nuclear posture review proposes to use nuclear strikes in response to non-nuclear threats , and deploying new “ low-yield ” nuclear devices to deliver submarine a nuclear-bomb equivalent to those that destroyed hiroshima and nagasaki in 1945 . tillerson ’s nostalgia for 1823 was not shared south of the border , where , as one mexican commentator put it , the monroe doctrine “ served to justify gringo interventions , ” ” and where china ’s increasing engagement is viewed as a counterweight to the us . moreover , it amounts to betraying america ’s longstanding commitment to internationalize a rules-based monetary system that discourages competitive currency devaluation . its nuclear posture review proposes to use nuclear strikes in response to non-nuclear threats , and deploying new “ low-yield ” nuclear devices to deliver submarine equivalent to those that destroyed hiroshima and nagasaki in 1945 .
at the same time , the governance structures for multilateral institutions like the international monetary fund must be reformed to bolster their legitimacy in emerging markets . unless they are supported by strong institutional structures at all levels , such measures will prove futile in managing capital flows . in other emerging markets as well , the main challenge , therefore , is ensuring that any macroeconomic and structural policy advances shared goals . policymakers in advanced and emerging countries alike should focus on underlying failures that destabilize their economies and impede growth , rather than attempting to treat symptoms through manipulating monetary policy or capital controls . otherwise , such institutions will remain ineffective in confronting collective problems associated with expansionary macroeconomic-policy spillovers and providing crisis insurance .
the economic challenges facing the developed-country middle classes mostly arise from two factors : whites ’ rapid losses – and blue-collar , routine jobs – and a shift in middle - and lower-value-added jobs to countries of lower labor costs . the latter pattern depressed income and wage growth not only in the tradable sector , but also in the non-tradable service sector , owing to the hollowing out displaced labor . a fall in the bargaining power of labor and a falling real minimum wage may have contributed to income polarization as well , even though these are probably secondary factors . though the challenges facing the middle class are well documented , american leaders have largely failed to recognize the full struggles of middle-class households , much less implement effective countermeasures . the result has been surplus labor conditions in the us – and lower-middle-income ranges , rather than dissimilar to surplus labor in the more recent developing countries , where it suppresses income growth ( over a period ) even as the us economy expands .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but that does not augur all-out war . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . zurich – finland ’s central bank governor , olli rehn , has reiterated his call to the european central bank to conduct a long-overdue review of its policy framework . the upcoming leadership change at an institution – with christine lagarde , the international monetary fund ’s managing director since 2011 – probably will succeed mario draghi as president – offers an important opportunity to heed that call . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
indeed , such scenarios were unimaginable until just recently . for several decades now , europe has constituted the world of ’s most successful , stable , and predictable region – a place where history seems to have all but all but ended . nonetheless , dramatic change has come to europe . the goal of making the continent peaceful , whole , and free has mostly been realized . one factor is the willingness and ability shown by vladimir putin ’s russia to use military force , economic coercion , and cyber manipulation to advance his agenda .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present over many years to come . batang toru is just one of many planned infrastructure projects worldwide that are officially considered environmentally sound , despite posing serious environmental risks . construction , for example , has been nearly complete on a railroad line through kenya ’s former , nairobi national ’s renowned park , despite public outrage over an “ incomplete , incompetent ” environmental impact assessment .
after all , unlike other central banks , they must account for the preferences of 19 sovereigns , with little to no patterns of structural or fiscal-policy coordination . in many ways , such actions have succeeded : monetary expansion played a major role in pulling the economy back from the brink . but , over time , the capacity of central banks to influence the real economy has declined . nowadays – and for the foreseeable future , domestic inflation is increasingly being influenced globally , rather than local , development , and – financial ( in ) stability and fiscal policies are far more influential than monetary policy . for the ecb , this generates a particularly severe challenge .
looking at a fast-growing town like houston , texas , we can see the true impact of the urban heat island . in august , temperatures climbed 12.5 oc above the surrounding countryside , reaching 40oc – a scorching heat that affected not only the downtown area , but also cover some 8,000 square kilometers . today , the fastest-growing cities are in asia . beijing is roughly ten ºc hotter than the nearby countryside in the us , and an estimated 5.5 ˚c warmer at night . looking at a fast-growing town like houston , texas , we can see the true effect of the urban heat island .
a rising minority began to pursue intense physical activity not in fields or factories , but in leisure settings . gyms became new sources of community choice . and , just as coworkers began to exercise together , enlightened employers came to view such recreation as a valuable source of physical and mental well-being . some people saw these changes happen , and worried about them . the sweat of one ’s brow was no longer linked to productive work but with a consumption – often conspicuous consumption .
hungarian prime minister viktor orbán has declared to hold a referendum on proposed quotas . some , such as the danish people ’s party , want to follow the united kingdom ’s lead and keep a vote on eu membership . others want to escape from europe , blocking transatlantic trade and investment partnership ( ttip ) with the united states or curtailing labor mobility . the eu ’s refugee relocation scheme has proved particularly divisive . according to the european council on foreign relations , there is an agreement on 32 referenda in 18 eu-wide countries .
but american exports are other nations ’ imports , so obama ’s argument amounts to telling others to lose us jobs . from the beginning of his presidency , obama ’s defense of the liberal trade regime has been inadequate . he has repeatedly said that exports are good for the us : they create jobs . he needs a reminder of americans that imports are also good : he can surely ask his audience to think of jobs in america ’s ups and downs , freight trains , and the trucks carrying imports into the american interior . in doing so , the main problem , however , is that obama has been unable to confront and put to rest , america ’s labor unions ’ erratic hostility to trade .
this inspired the american way of life , where money invariably speaks . usury ( making money from money ) involved an offense against god . yet it occurred just in the eighteenth century , when greed became morally respectable . it was now thought healthily promethean to turn fortunes into money , and to put it work to produce more money , because by doing that one was benefiting humanity . ending capitalism means simply ending the urge to listen .
instead of focusing on treatments that work , the polish government chooses to cede priority to long-term rehabilitation centers located in the depths of a rural land that has little , if anything , to do with evidence-based medicine . poland is also choosing to treat possession of even the smallest amount of drugs as criminal , as evidenced by roughly 60 % of people condemned for drug possession in poland to be marijuana smokers . this pattern persists across central and eastern europe , where governments have also opted for imprison drug users . resolving drug use through criminalization and rehabilitation centers will nothing to curb demand , but usage rates have failed to decline . by driving users underground , criminalization is contributing to a deepening public-health crisis .
frankfurt – the european central bank is at the center of a big , risky experiment . crisis management has imposed major market distortions , with certain segments of the output no longer explainable by fundamental economic data . globally , financial markets have been flooded with liquidity , but the us federal reserve is flooded with a federal reserve board . key us interest rates have thus stayed near zero now . the unintended consequences of this policy have become increasingly visible – and will become increasingly tangible with the american federal reserve ’s exit from its post-2008 ultra-loose monetary policy .
nato is developing a ballistic-missile defense capability to protect our european populations and territories against a grave and growing threat . its alliance has evolved into a genuine security-management entity that is flexible , efficient , and cost-effective . and , in countries around the world , it performs tasks like de-mining , disaster relief , advising on how to pool military force under democratic control , and working closely with the un to prevent harm to children . the threats have morphed and become more global . in the indian ocean , nato is working with the european union and numerous others to police major sea lanes threatened by pirates .
and , anticipating the eventual replacement of conventional motor vehicles globally , the authorities are providing lavish subsidies to domestically-produced manufacturing industries . china ’s dependence on fossil-fuel companies has left it in a profound environmental hole , but its leaders are determined to climb out . meanwhile , the trump administration is attempting to reverse the clock , by betting on resuscitation of the dying – and deadly – – fossil-fuel industry . and , anticipating the eventual replacement of conventional motor vehicles globally , the authorities are issuing lavish subsidies for home production . meanwhile , the trump administration is attempting to turn back the clock , by betting on resuscitation of the dying and deadly – – fossil-fuel industry .
but calculating an appropriate tax would be extremely difficult in practice . moreover , the tax would probably have regressive distributional consequences , hurting poor countries the most . measuring can also invite countries like the united states to retaliate with distortive measures , making it somewhat perilous . it would , for example , necessitates the fiscal equivalent of a reduction in regulatory ceilings . provided that it is indiscriminate , such a border pricing would enhance global welfare and be compatible with the rules of world trade organization .
eurozone countries , together with others willing to join the euro in the future ( the “ eurozone plus ” ) , might simply decide to use the legal means already available to enhance cooperation . ideally , this kind of cooperation would occur within the eu ’s institutional framework . if all eurozone members participated , article 136 of the eu treaty ’s functioning one could be used to support their action.the scope of that provision , which says that “ “ the european ] council shall … adopt measures particular to [ european member states , ” and that “ only ” european member states … will participate in eu voting – is wide . moreover , article 138 would enable unified eurozone representation in the international monetary fund and the world bank . the group could then extend cooperation to three other policy fields :
for his part , imam ahmad seddeeq of iceland ’s islamic cultural center countered that female circumcision is effectively a part of muslim faith , and that gunnarsdóttir ’s ’s ’s ’s bill amounts to “ a contravention [ of ] religious freedom . ” complicating matters further , the two sides base their human-rights arguments . for example , some supporters of the ban have argued that circumcision violates article 5 of the universal declaration of human rights ( udhr ) – which states that no one is subjected – against torture or to harsh , inhuman , or degrading treatment or punishment – ” ” ” ” ” ” . and agnes m. sigosuch as iceland ’s islamic cultural center , warning that prohibition would effectively transform judaism and islam , as well as “ criminalized religions , ” because anyone practicing circumcision could be subjected to six years in prison . gunnarsdóttir accepts that “ everyone has the right to believe what they want , ” but insists that “ children ’s rights come closer to cast in the right to believe .
entanglement may alter the cost-benefit calculation of a major state like china ; but it probably has little effect on a state like north korea that was weakly linked to the world economy . to be sure , entering any adversary network and disrupting attacks poses an acute risk of escalation . “ persistent engagement ” may , however , aid deterrence in such tough circumstances . but policy analysts can not set themselves the classic instruments of nuclear deterrence – punishment and denial – as they assess opportunities for deterrence and dissuasion in cyberspace . they should also pay attention to entanglement and the mechanisms of entanglement .
corroborating a stricter and more rigorous stability pact also makes the imperative to achieve greater integration . moreover , if we want the eu to emerge strengthened from the crisis , it must also strike a better balance between austerity and pro-growth policies ; because , without growth and higher employment , the eurozone ’s problems can not be resolved . here , the eu summit in december was an important step forward concerning deepening political union and strengthening governance among a group of eurozone member states . nevertheless , more will be needed to restore financial stability , such as by shoring the european financial stability facility ’s total firepower . more important , the eu must bind its economic strategies to its long-term competitiveness , ultimately determined the value-added tax on goods and services .
the financial stability board projected that total global shadow-banking assets in 2011 amounted to ¥ 67 trillion , with america ’s s accounting for ¥ 23 trillion , a ¥ 22 trillion ( $ 22 trillion ) eurozone for ¥ 22 trillion , and the united kingdom for ¥ 9 trillion . in 2007 , the book ’s shadow-banking sector exceeded that of conventional banking assets . the shadow banking in china is dominated by credit to higher-risk borrowers , such as local governments , property developers , and small and medium-size enterprises ( smes ) . chinese shadow banking totals only about $ 2.2 trillion . it ultimately is funded through online bank deposits , wealth-management banks and private capital .
there is no overarching explanation for obama ’s successive middle east failures , but there are a few factors worth considering : the increase in the number of asymmetrical conflicts in which the traditional use of force is largely ineffective ; increasingly blurred lines between difficult allies and intransigent adversaries ; and major political differences between a centrist us president and a congress that is dominated more than ever by extreme ideas . in 2009 , obama envisioned a settlement of the conflict through the international community ’s robust commitment to nato . in 2011 , he asserted that only both sides ’ willingness could ensure a successful outcome . clearly , the us can do little to resolve a conflict . but obama himself bears a large share of the blame ; he does not .
with wages in china now rising fast , its labor-cost advantage is fast diminishing . to be sure , china ’s ’s dramatic economic success would have been impossible , without front-loaded trade disparities . but it may be exceedingly sound for any developing country that fosters the appealing balance of inward investment and local entrepreneurship , and use the proceeds of export-led growth to invest in its infrastructure and skills . in the future , though , this kind of deal will probably become less important . like economists like mit ’s david autor of mit have shown the impact that such people can be bad for some workers and good for firm profits .
beijing – just how fast is china ’s population aging and what does a lower share of the working-age population mean for a country in economic development ? nowadays , most of the demographic forecasts for china point to the country ’s overall birth rate ( tfr ) of 1.8 – unchanged over 20 years . but the population-based survey data published by the national bureau of statistics indicate that the tfr has been less than 1.5 for many years , and the united nations ’ just-published report , world fertility patterns 2009 , revising china ’s tfr to 1.4 in 2006 , marketing it among low birth countries . a long period of low fertility implies that china ’s population is aging and working-age growth is slowing . can – and should – anything be done , particularly for the country ’s “ one child ” policy , slow this trend ?
until the currency crashes of the 1990 ’s , emerging and developing countries tended to target their exchange rates . many then switched to inflation-targeting targets ; but they tend to miss those targets even more often than advanced-country countries do . the problem with these monetary-policy approaches is that although a specific numerical target may be sensible when it is set , the ensuing , unexpected development often makes the target hard to live with it . after the monetarist approach failed , some of the switched to targets of targeting inflation . but they repeatedly missed their targets .
the lesson to be drawn from the greek debacle is that the eurozone needs to develop sovereign-debt procedures as rapidly as possible , thereby prevent other sovereigns from becoming creditors through debt mutualization . to borrow to a friend , greece would no longer be a friend . to borrow to a friend , greece would no longer be a friend . the lesson to be drawn from the greek debacle is that the eurozone must develop sovereign-debt procedures as quickly as possible , thereby preventing other sovereigns from turning creditors through debt mutualization . if europe ’s national governments are to help one another in a crisis , they should unilaterally provide humanitarian assistance , with no conditionality and redemption .
finally , orbán and his supporters maintain his grip on power partly by relying on gerrymandering and voter suppression ( which mostly influences hungarians living in western europe ) . evidently , trump and his advisers have learned a lot from orbán on racist immigration policies , and from the desire to destroy the cause of democracy . they are not making america great or even good ; they make it hungarian . finally , orbán and his supporters maintain his grip on power partly by relying on gerrymandering and voter suppression ( which mostly influences hungarians living in western europe ) . evidently , orbán is a pariah in european circles for having eroded hungarian democracy ; yet trump recently welcomed him to the white house while describing him as “ respecting all of europe . ”
making matters worse , orbán has gutted hungary ’s civil service independence , and thoroughly politicized the law administration . trump is doing a lot of the same thing , with the result that america ’s government now loses some 94 % of his regulatory court cases . while orbán has invoked economic pressure to force the closure of the hungarian opposition media , trump has described the press as “ the enemy of people ” – and the threat of libel activism against critical outlets . at the same time , trump has purge some 17,000 public officials by firing us state department employees , shutting down his government , freezing pay , and creating an atmosphere of hostile to an honest , open-ended debate over how to formulate and execute policy . by politicizing american administrative agencies , beginning to capture the department of justice , and committing itself to earn ideological judicial appointments , trump is now far along with his quest to stamp out the rule of law in america .
to decide not to challenge these data , folta continues , and instead “ publish a map showing that the munich is squarely in the gulf of mexico , opposing any more data , and claims of millions of citizens , does not make you brilliant still . but it is not clear from ayyadurai ’s article that data were being used , and there is no validation of a model . folta offers the brilliant send-up of ayyadurai ’s work . “ if you developed a computer program that integrated internet data to forecast location in munich , ” and the program told it squarely in the gulf of mexico , far-right from florida , that does n’t mean that munich lies in the gulf of mexico , right from florida . instead , this means that you have made a mistake , in your program , assumptions , or inputs data – all of them testable .
yet , by the fall of 2008 , at the height of the global financial crisis , eurozone heads of state did not consider creating a common bank-rescue fund . in other words , europe faces a fundamental , collective-action problem . the sum of its headline commitment was impressive , amounting to 20 % of gdp . experience has revealed that only an acute crisis can compel europe ’s leaders to take collective action in a concerted effort . instead , they have settled on a raft of national measures to stabilize national banking systems , one by one .
a 17-day war has ensued , but the status quo has prevailed . both parties have struggled again in 1971 , although kashmir has not been the focus . following the civil war pitting then-west pakistan against the then-eastern pakistan freedom fighters fueled a wave of sunni refugees , india has begun supporting rebel groups there . west pakistan was forced to surrender , and east pakistan became bangladesh ’s independent state . then , in 1999 , another indo-pakistani skirmish over kashmir erupted , after pakistan sent troops into the indian-controlled kargil district .
whereas pandemics seem suddenly , spread quickly , and raise enormous fears of an imminent threat , tb has been spread slowly but steadily for tens of thousands of years , patiently waiting for new opportunities . moreover , tubercle bacillus engages in trench warfare , gaining resistance to conventional antibiotics , and canonical vaccination approaches , as well as delaying diagnosis and determination of drug sensitivity . with the emergence in the 1980 ’s of hiv , which rules the immune system , tb reemerged , and is the number-one killer of hiv/aids individuals . roughly 15 million people suffer from co-infections of hiv and mycobacterium tuberculosis , the primary causative agent in most tb cases . treatment of tb requires the minimum of three drugs that have been administered over at least six months .
europe ’s strongest military power by far thwarted all attempts to pool europe ’s armed forces . in 1954 , france ’s national assembly rejected the treaty of western union ’s western union defense organization . the pitfalls of strengthening european fiscal union further do not end there . continued progress towards fiscal union would , ironically , force political union for one simple but crucial reason : france . in 2005 , france rejected the proposed european union constitution , which might have labeled the beginning of the process of political unification .
they know that their supervisor has powerful tools at her disposal – for example , it could be able to lower borrowing costs , thereby protecting banks ( at least for a short time ) – and a strong interest in protecting its reputations . the limits of inflation targeting are now obvious , and that a strategy should be ditched . now , central banks need to reconcile the need to maintain price stability with a liability , regardless of whether it is a legally mandated – to reduce financial vulnerabilities . that will not be easy , not least because of another new operating burden that has placed on a multitude of central banks : macro-prudential and micro-prudential supervision . micro-prudential supervision , in particular , implies the risk of political pressure , interference with central bank autonomy , and policy conflicts – all of which could interfere with the behavioral economics of financial intermediaries by encouraging them to assume greater risk .
in contrast to developed countries , an unusually large number of small , unproductive firms coexist with a small number of larger , productive firms . if the small , unproductive firms closed down and bigger , more productive firms were hired by their workers , total output and well-being would soar . so , why is n’t this happening routinely in the developing world ? under standard economic reasoning , that is inefficient . this should happen automatically through the somewhat invisible hand of competition , because the more productive firms should be able to supply an even better product at a lower price , with hit labor by high-wage workers .
as china ’s new leadership team emerges , the world ’s attention has been focused on president jiang zemin ’s successor . mr. zhu has been china ’s jack welch , a tough-minded , longtime ceo of the american conglomerate general electric – a man celebrated for his candor , his global sophistication , and his insistence on performance . but that is misguided , for perhaps the most remarkable moment in china ’s recent history of boom and transformation , was the appointment of zhu rongji ( pronounced “ joo rong-jee ” ) as premier of the state council , a position once held by deng xiaoping . even before he became premier , sir zhu , as then-president of china ’s central bank , came to be known as the architect of china ’s 8 % annual economic growth in the 1990s and mastermind to his successful fight against inflation . given the post ’s evident importance in recent years , the choice of mr. zhu ’s replacement may turn out to be an even more significance than president jiang ’s departure from center stage .
by contrast , trade among african countries accounts for only around 10-12 % of the continent ’s exports and imports . yet , partly because a few african countries have exited the hang-over from the global credit crisis , more investors are focusing on business opportunities there . by 2050 , the combined gdp of the world ’s largest 11 african economies should reach over $ 13 trillion , surpassing brazil and russia ( but not china or india ) . twenty-three bourses operate in africa currently , and their combined market capitalization has soared from nearly $ 245 trillion in 2002 to $ 1 trillion ( 2 % of the world ’s total ) in late 2009 – as high as america ’s fifteenth-largest stock exchange . for some analysts , the emergence of countries like brazil as economic powerhouses stemmed in part from the successful demutualizing of their stock exchanges .
• accelerate eligibility for residency rights and citizenship ; • accelerate eligibility for residency rights and citizenship ; some of these countries suffer when skilled employees emigrate . but the failure to create mechanisms that enable migrants to use their skills creates even more damage . establishing national , regional , and global standards is not easy , but it is absolutely necessary . what trained doctors should not be driving taxicabs , which are not the source of them .
unlike trump and the united kingdom ’s “ leave ” campaign , the national front already has a predictable core constituency , amounting to roughly one-quarter of voters . its coalition of old french far-left and disaffected working-class voters wo n’t arrive either unannounced or defy expectations , as has been happening in the united states and the uk . fillon , for his part , may will most likely muster the same degree of support , potentially even to skim votes from le pen , given that some 8 % of primary voters have described themselves as the national front backers . what ’s more , political catholicism still appeals to many french voters , and the ecb itself wants to lure catholics away from the national front and back into its more traditionally conservative fold . heading into the election campaign , fillon may run on a pro-european platform , as evidenced by his pivot during the second-round debates , when he implied that he favors forming a european government .
poland ’s national media ’s narrative portraying owsiak and civic platform as guilty parties behind adamowicz ’s killings will only undermine the pis . generations of poles have taken part in charity ’s fundraising drives . kaczyński has been repeatedly demonstrating his impulsiveness , after all . for years , poles ranked owsiak as the country ’s greatest moral authority – ahead of the pope . so he pursues power without considering the consequences of his actions .
new york – the latest hamburger you ate may have cost you beside nothing . but what did those tomato slice on that burger cost the worker there ? almost anywhere in the world – including in the united states – the cost may be shockingly high . in florida , tomato pickers earn an average of only $ 0.50 for each 32-pound ( $ 14.5 kilogram ) of bucket . appalling wages are just the beginning . in florida , tomato pickers are earning an average of only $ 0.50 for each 32-pound ( $ 14.5-kilogram ) bucket .
whatever the new administration touts as part of its ambitious effort to make a “ china dream ” come true . when xi first unveiled his slogan after being selected as the ccp ’s new general secretary , he defined it in simple , accessible but nonetheless generic terms : the “ china dream of living the same good life as any other people may have in the world today . ” china ’s ever-zealous propaganda officials , evidently fearful of not showing sufficient loyalty and respect to the new party chief , were quickly hijacked by the slogan ; the “ china dream ” was replaced by a “ china model ” in an official of political branding . xi has claimed little about the “ china dream ” has ever since , and his silence has created a significant problem . unfortunately , china does , which double in the censors , has a perverse ability to discredit anything that they try to label .
in fact , they can not , for human genetic experimentation is impossible . even in animals , whose particular genes are more readily studied and much better understood , such as drosophila , the tiny fruit fly , there is no simple one-to-one correspondence between a gene and a behavioral trait . instead , a wide variety of genes has an impact on each and every characteristic of different genes . even many aspects of their behavior in this way resemble our own . even in animals , whose particular genes are more readily studied and much better understood , such as drosophila , the minuscule fruit fly , there is no simple one-to-one correspondence between a gene and a behavioral trait .
environmental degradation – particularly deforestation – is accelerating and corruption , with cash from opaque sources flowing to cambodia ’s casinos , bank , and the real-estate market . now pension fees and fund managers insist that the companies in which they invest business in ethical , transparent ways that restrict reputational risk . emerging-market investment decisions increasingly precede rigorous esg ings – screenings that , after 34 years of hun sen ’s dictatorial rule , cambodia has little opportunity to get passing . gone are the days when strong esg performance has been a handsome bonus for investors . currently , cambodia is hollowing out of its natural resources , including timber , insanity , and sand have been – for private-sector gain .
robert peston , in his 2005 biography of then-german chancellor of exchequer gordon brown , described brown ’s “ pragmatic view that the eu is good only insofar as it delivered the practical benefits of peace and prosperity for britain . ” simply put , the talk of “ brexit ” has exposed europe ’s economic and political fault lines – and there is little going back . in the wake of world war ii , european countries ’ national interests were aligned . nonetheless , efforts to establish political unity through the common army failed in 1954 , highlighting that economic common ground was key to european integration . while the british were particularly open to the nationalist character of their support for european integration , other eu members were no less mindful of their domestic interests .
the u.s. finds a new “ empire of evil ” in “ terrorist ” states and organizations ; europe has found a new adversary helping it to integrate into the united states . that is a dangerous state of affairs for those on either side of the atlantic who have been skeptical about the values of the enlightenment and in the constitution of liberty . quite a few in europe define the eu as an instrument for holding its own against the united states . they see even the euro as a weapon against the dollar and rejoice when the euro is “ strong ” and the dollar is “ weak ” in the eyes of the dollar . against its core values there is such a thing as the west .
perhaps he will replace the widely criticized foreign minister , witold waszczykowski . the most saryusz-wolski can realistically hope for is some government position in poland . he is just kaczyński , a “ helpful morass ” in seeking to score a political victory over the man who represents the greatest threat to the pis faces . the majority of the pis , in its part , may hope that some grand coalition of countries ( such as those ruled by the social democrats ) will propose yet another alternative for tusk , whom eu member states will elect in order to avoid escalating the conflict with poland . in that case , tusk would most likely return to domestic politics , where a ninth victory against pis would be kaczyński ’s penalty deserves .
i can not help but recall the situation in the summer of 1992 , when a tiny majority of danish voters rejected the maastricht treaty . now , the eu is again in iranian chirac . but this time , it is hard to see the way out offering a second referendum . so the problem lies with iran , and it must be solved . renegotiating the treaty is out of the question , because doing so would open a pandora ’s box of demands from everybody else .
but experiences around the world suggest that this is a risky outlook . the challenges are not limited to the us , where it is leading the way . other countries ( like spain ) have their own real-estate crises . even were banks healthy , deleveraging processes , and the associated wealth loss , meant that , more likely than not , the economy would be weak . and a weak economy implies , more likely than not , larger bank losses .
nonetheless , even as it has increased its capacity to provide military force to the un , nato , or the eu , germany has made clear that it does not view itself as a military power . indeed , german policymakers continue to believe that the political and economic means of influence are more effective than violence , implying a further development of soft-power tools – including digital diplomacy . they are also eager to develop more “ networked ” domestic and european foreign policies that account for the operations and possible contributions of non-state actors . nonetheless , even as it has increased its capacity to provide military force to the un , nato , or eu operations , germany has made clear that it does not view itself as a military power . german policymakers continue to believe that political and economic means of influence are more effective than violence , implying additional development of soft-power tools – including digital diplomacy .
if greece and other countries are to ensure their citizens ’ health and prosperity over the decades to come , they will have to find ways to prevent current economic activity from rising further – by an already unsustainable sovereign-debt burden . for that to happen , eco-resources must come to be viewed as valuable endowments to be managed wisely . the mediterranean region ’s unique , breathtaking natural capital is one of its biggest assets – a reason why more than 200 million tourists flock to the region every year , feeding the region ’s economies . overusing resources or even failure to manage it carefully , will inevitably saps the region ’s economic strength . to be sure , countries with ecology deficits can often fill part of the gap through global trade , when they are able to pay for essential imports .
but he must credibly outline practical strategies to resolve south korea ’s most serious problems , including high unemployment , worsening educational performance , and north korea ’s ’s nuclear weapons program . he favors policy on engagement and the six-party talks , so that he is committed to resolve nuclear hardship . ms. park once pledged once pledged to give working-class families loans from elementary school to university years at a time , while contending that local universities should be empowered with more autonomy . come presidential election-day presidential election-day in the 2012 fiscal year , south korean voters will pick a candidate who embodies pragmatism and centrism over a partisan or ideologue .
and that , in turn , requires higher public investment in infrastructure and human capital . up-front gradualism has to be the name of the game . revenue will grow consistently only if the tax base – that is , the economy – – grows . and adjustment must be wedded to a growth strategy . a fiscal compact like the one endorsed recently is helpful to anchor expectations about future adjustment , but only if the new system is flexible enough to be politically credible .
more recently , the european central bank has reiterated its stance that severe fiscal consolidation will generate enough increases in private-sector confidence that spending cuts for households and firms will more than offset the lower spending imposed by governments . second , the international monetary fund , under the g-20 ’s ’s “ peer assessment process , ” suggested that the united states cut its fiscal deficit to 3 % of gdp more than projected – above $ 400 billion in additional cuts a year later . meanwhile , the imf believes that current fiscal plans will discourage us economic growth . nonetheless , the oecd , the recipient of governments , not all , to consolidate excessively in a sluggish global recovery . america ’s major trading partners want the us to grow and buy more of its exports .
indeed , totalitarian pressure was shaped by extraordinary people like john paul ii and alexander solzhenitsyn , people for whom religious faith bought freedom from mendacity and solitude . but it did the same , for andrei sakharov and vaclav havel , who defended their great values with allusions to them , and in the language of lay humanism . for most people , yet life under a totalitarian dictatorship was not ennobling ; it was , rather , a everyday immersion in falsehood , self-serving depravity , and material corruption . this helps to argue that postcommunist societies are not demonstrating the extent of the nobility or the disinterested that profound clash with the west . i admit that i view communism ’s heritage with more skepticism .
under kim , the bank has propagated the simplistic idea that fossil-fuel consumption is always harmful , coal must be forbidden , and “ climate aid ” is the solution . indeed , according to this view , the world bank ’s climate focus is also at odds with what the world ’s poorest citizens want . when the un asked nearly ten million people worldwide to list their priorities , they emphasized better education and health care , less corruption , more jobs , and affordable food alone . in particular , the evidence makes clear that direct policies could be a far more effective approach to direct policies . in particular , global warming has came on just 16 issues .
trump carries on about the paris agreement ’s supposed bias toward india ’s favor , but fails to acknowledge that india ’s per capita emissions are 1.6 tons , just one-tenth the american level . trump also bemoans america ’s contributions to the green climate fund ( and rosneft , relative to its name , for some reason as well ) . consider the most recent figures for the year 2014 study by the international energy agency ’s 2016 energy statistics . the world ’s ’s ’s ’s co2 emissions from the energy and industry averaged 4.5 metric per person ( $ 32.4 billion per 7.2 billion per 7.2 billion people in the iea tabulation ) , while america ’s emissions have been almost four times that level , from 16.2 per person ( 5.2 billion tons for 320 million people ) . he complains that america has already provided more than $ 1 billion , without explaining to the american people and the world that $ 1 billion is a donations of $ 3.08 per american .
true , un secretary general ban ki moon may make speeches , convene meetings to propose actions , but his role is more secretary of defense than universal . what hard power the un has had to be pleading and borrowed from member states . as one wag put it , “ we have met the un and are us ! ” and when they can not agree on a course of action , this is hard for the organization to operate . sometimes likened to a “ secular pope , ” ” ” ” ” un secretary general may wield the soft power of persuasion but little hard economic or military power .
a meeting of presidents , after all , is the ultimate negotiating forum , and must lead to a genuine , sustainable path . otherwise , what will emerge is that no amount of negotiations can help set the caucasus straight – powerfully undermining crucial restraint preventing either side from trying again to reach a military solution . there is some grounds for that no such meeting occurred during the 20 years of conflict has been held . perhaps for that reason , there has been talk of a meeting in astana between the presidents of russia and france , america ’s foreign secretary , and the presidents of armenia and azerbaijan . this prospect holds both great opportunities and serious risks .
true , venezuelan president nicolás maduro is ruling unconstitutionally , relying on emergency decrees and an all-powerful , one-party , illegally established constituent assembly , while ignoring the elected national assembly and banning opposition political parties . but venezuela is hardly just a political problem ; it is a humanitarian disaster of unprecedented proportions . if the problem were simply a matter of the gross violations of organization of american states ’ democratic charter , certified by oas secretary general luis almagro ’s solutions , solutions that are measured in months or years could be contemplated . but the impact of his misrule is such that venezuelans ( and perhaps venezuelans ) are dying from starvation ; the health-care system has collapsed ; and violence and contagious diseases are now practically out of control . governments in both the americas and europe find themselves tenacity .
but the pace at which the political world is embracing social media accelerated dramatically over the past year . chief minister of western bengal mamata banerjee is running a popular – and widely read – web site that traditional media outlets mine mine mine mine daily . similarly , omar abdullah , the youthful chief minister of jammu and kashmir , regularly interacts on twitter , and his far elder rajasthan and kerala counterparts , ashok gehlot , and oommen chandy , respectively , have opened facebook accounts in much the same way . but the pace at which the political world is embracing social media has been accelerating dramatically over the past year . the bjp ’s wholesale admission of twitter – modi ’s networked allies – include netanyahu ’s parliamentary leader , sushma swaraj , and a coterie of organized followers – prominent indian politicians from all parties have leapt at all .
related to this is the fact that nowadays economic development depends less on a particular country and more on regional integration , which can serve to avoid the adverse effects of those boosted by globalization ’s financial speculations . so long as a country is being subordinated to globalization ’s uncontrollable force , its future lies in its own foreign . but , in agreeing to open regional economies to imports , poor and developing countries , poor and developing countries , we must allow some means to protect their newfound industries . so the world needs , in its regions , to facilitate integration , based on broadly shared economic democratization : currency compatibility , free trade , shared legal rules , and , most of all , a shared will to fix the rules of the game , according to a region with an entire interest . only through such equal cooperation can secure a solid political basis for integration be used .
when egyptians rose against mubarak in january , they were confronted by arms paid for with borrowed money . the type of regime mubarak was running has been clear for many years , and it is also clear how the money is being used . a prudent lender was supposed to think of those facts before making the loans . is it fair to expect that egyptians would continue to pay because of their previous repression and impoverishment at mubarak ’s hands and his henchmen ? is it fair to expect egyptians to continue to pay because of their previous repression and impoverishment at mubarak ’s hands and his henchmen ?
thus , claims of alternative strategies must be set at a somewhat lower level – say , an initial exchange rate that might choose to make east germany a lower-wage country . even that is a dream since , in the face of high unemployment , east german wages have risen substantially each year , relative to west germany . one alternative strategy , remotely conceivable , is that west germany would have projected the failure of the experiment before embarking on it . even that is a dream since , in the face of high unemployment , east german wages have risen substantially each year , relative to west germany . perhaps those are ideas en vogue in korea as it thinks about potential unification , but even there it will be hard to accomplish when the time comes .
and online platforms facilitate increased consumption , while expanding market access and funding for smaller firms . meanwhile , china ’s leaders should aim to accelerate and build on these trends , rather than pursuing additional fiscal and monetary stimulus . public-sector investment is high enough ; expanding it now would shift the mix of aggregate demand in the wrong direction . and , with the corporate sector already over-leveraged , broad-based credit expansion is not secure . new service-sector enterprises , which are 3.6 million of which began just last year , are generating incremental employment , thanks in part to a new streamlined licensing framework .
it would have been inconceivable that nato heads of state would go ahead with their planned leadership summit in warsaw in june if poland remained mired in its constitutional crisis , with the government disregarding the rule of law and the opinion of a highly respected international body . the eu has mechanisms to regulate economic policies , safeguard the environment , and policing the single market . if europe is to face down kremlin aggression , it is imperative that poland and hungary abide by those groups of fundamental values and principles . but it is also necessary that the eu itself is developing a more comprehensive mechanism to safeguarding the rule of law within its union . hungarians and poles must be reminded that russian president vladimir putin is actively attempting to split and weaken the eu and nato .
but this risk is not a sufficient reason to abandon or suppress research into solar geoengineering . the overwhelming majority of those researching solar geoengineering , or advocating for its inclusion in climate-policy debates , also advocates much stronger action to reduce emissions . still , it is very likely that big fossil-fuel companies , from multinational energy firms to coal-dependent regions , will end up using debate about geoengineering to combat emissions limits . with good reason , fossil-fuel interests will exploit solar geoengineering to oppose emissions cuts . but that risk is not a sufficient reason to abandon or suppress research into solar geoengineering .
to achieve that , america would have to subordinate its power to the goal of shaping the new order , much like it did at the closing end of world war ii in 1945 . instead , america has succumbed to the temptations of unilateralism . if a great power forgets this or loses its ability to act accordingly , it begins its own decline . it is nearly appealing to think that america of the great cold war adversary , the soviet union , with its sudden disappearance just 15 years ago , left its own trojan horse for america – a poisoned gift of unilateralism . national greatness to a world power invariably arises from its ability to shape the world .
for such strategies to work , however , the global oil industry needs to get on board . that means engaging sincerely with african governments to figure out how best to support national agendas for development and diversification . abu dhabi ’s international petroleum exhibition and conference , hosted by the abu dhabi national petroleum corporation ( barkindo ) , which will be a meeting with barkindo , along with numerous african energy ministers and oil-industry leaders , provides an ideally opportunity to initiate such a trial . the industrialized economies – for their part – need to do more to support african petroleum industries , and to ensure that the adverse effects of oil production are mitigated . working with other stakeholders , sustainable , and just transition can also achieve something more : allowing carbon energy to have a positive impact on economies that have so far experienced only the adverse impact of the twentieth century ’s oil-backed development .
nevertheless , although one-third of the west bank has sealed the palestinians to make room for a few thousand jewish settlers , only 10 % of its largely rural population has been refugees , many have owned their land , and a wide range of jobs has been created . economic development in gaza strip has been confined under egyptian rule , and the region has suffered the burden of absorbing palestinian refugees fleeing fighting in the southern state of mandatory palestine , which would later become israel itself . by contrast , 70 % of gaza ’s population comprised refugees , living in hard conditions in scores of refugee camps , and thus depended largely on working in israel . palestinians ’ access to egypt was restricted , and much of gaza ’s largely unskilled labor force was dependent on a un relief operation management that built and maintained local refugee camps . the 1967 war placed all of palestine ’s compulsory ( as well as sinai and the golan ) under israeli military occupation .
when the financial crisis erupted , the same thinking may have crossed the minds of hank paulson , ben bernanke , and tim geithner , made his treasury secretary , speaker of the us federal reserve bank , and now of the new york fed ’s president , respectively . all three published lengthy memoirs explaining why they did and did n’t do anything they did and did n’t do – inevitably , with a degree of self-justifying in every case . the second proposition in history often appears to be written by keynesians themselves . after world war ii , winston churchill confidently asserts that history would treat him kindly , because “ i propose to write that history . ” now , a decade later , the three have co-authored what might be described as version of 2.1 of that episode .
moreover , by implementing incremental reforms that facilitate – and even incentivizing – replacing the old , inefficient sources of growth with new , more dynamic ones , they expedited this process . for example , in the 1980s , china addressed the buildup of bad debt and unfinished construction projects , the result of state-owned enterprises ( soes ) chronic loss-making and excessive land investment – respectively – through implementation of institutional reforms that stimulated growth in a more dynamic sector , thereby offsetting soes ’ diminishing returns to capital . the goal was not to address effectively the problems they faced directly , but rather to induce new , more efficient activities that help to turn debt into assets and maximize the use of an economy ’s capacity . in this sense , east asia ’s economies embraced a process of “ creative destruction , ” described by the austrian economist joseph schumpeter , whereby economic structure is continually revolutionized from within . moreover , by implementing incremental reforms that facilitate – and even encourages – replacing the old , inefficient sources of growth with new , more dynamic ones , they expedited this process .
brussels – as the protests over china ’s ’s crackdown in tibet and the debate over kosovo ’s unilateral declaration of independence continue to fester , the injustice of taiwan ’s ongoing international isolation has barely stirred a comlicker of interest , despite taiwan ’s recent presidential election and a referendum on united nations ’ membership . this neglect is not only shortsighted ; it may also prove dangerous . similarly , much of the world is protesting in the name of tibet , because countless millions have witnessed china ’s brutal suppression of tibetan culture . this seeming double-norm can be explained partly by a sense of guilt : the west has , since , embraced kosovo ’s independence in an effort to assuage its own culpability for not preventing slobodan milosevic ’s campaign of ethnic cleansing there . taiwan , by contrast , impoverishes our attention because it is stable and flourishing economically .
many are now eagerly offering their views as to whether the uk should look once again about the “ norway model ” of relations with the eu or some other scheme that maintains uk participation in the eu ’s single market . during my 17-month experience as france ’s minister , i became convinced that the spads ’ excessive power – and haughty an approach – undermines the uk ’s ’s ’s excellent civil service , as well as that of eu elected and cabinet ministers – were becoming less convinced . perhaps ’s two leading spads , unilever ’s fiona hill and dani rodrik , have taken this risk of worrying levels . many are now eagerly offering their views as to whether the uk should look anew at the “ norway model ” of eu relations with the eu , or some other scheme that maintains uk participation in the single market . whatever brexit may manage , it is now clear that britain needs a policy that can command broad and genuine support .
setting aside the problem of nanomaterials ’ toxicity , preliminary outcomes suggest that fabricating nanomaterials entails risks that are less than or less comparable to those associated with many current industrial activities . indeed , many of the ingredients used to create nanomaterials are currently known to raise human health risks . an encouraging trend is that the methods used to produce nanomaterials often become “ greener ” as they move from the laboratory to industrial production . it would be naive to imagine that nanotechnology will evolve without the threat to our health and the environment . while efforts to stop the development of nanomaterial-inspired technologies would be just as irresponsible as it is unrealistic , responsible evolution in such technologies calls for vigilance and social commitment .
globally , human trafficking generates an average of annual profits of more than $ 150 billion , of which two-thirds ( $ 99 billion ) come from forced sex exploitation . would-be traffickers need only laptop or a smartphone with high-speed internet connection to go into business . the unregulated online world is thus fertile ground for reaping enormous profits from child sex trafficking . with the rapid growth of digital platforms threatening to turn child sex trafficking into ever more lucrative , the world needs to take urgent , coordinated action to fight that appalling crime . with nearly $ 4.5 billion of people today , nearly $ 4.5 billion has access to the internet , with around one in three internet users occurring in just 18 days .
nor should it come as a surprise , then , that markets have tested european political leaders ’ willingness to remain calm where monetary matters are concerned . europe has , in fact , experienced a hard but promising start at the same time . it should not come as a surprise that europe has begun to slide against the dollar , contemplating divergences in economic performance between america and europe . the recent intervention and support by america and japan have shown that europe is here to stay , and that markets are confident of its success . all of them have to do so , and they want to do so all .
now that internet fever has abated , we hear that “ patterns of fundamentals ” are reasserting itself . indeed , the cycle of internet boom-and-bust brings into question the prevailing economic theory about financial markets . now that internet fever has abated , we hear that “ the fundamentals ” have been reasserting itself . but that view is as framed as a semi-truth as the previous idea that the boom would last forever , because the internet economy has created new fundamentals . what , then , should be clear now is that the very fundamentals that supposedly determine stock prices are not independently given .
palo alto – since the proliferation of a sixth-century science , its collaboration principle has been that “ the dose makes the poison . ” the risk that substance poses broadly depends on two factors : its intrinsic capacity to produce harm and one ’s exposure to it . the correct dose of an aspirin may be a therapeutic godsend , but consuming too much can be lethal . it is a rule that applies to the drugs we use worldwide many billions of times daily . it is a rule that applies to the drugs we use worldwide many billions of times per day .
the fourth scenario is partition , with older three-province , ottoman-style setup setup : cyrenaica ( eastern ) , fezzan ( southern ) , fezzan ( southern ) , and tripolitania ( western ) . cyrenaica is qaddafi-free , there is no tripolitania , and fezzan did not fully join the revolution . given libya ’s lack of democratic experience , some view this as the likely outcome in the post-qaddafi era . but libya is not the only country struggling to move from dictatorship to democracy with weak institutions and strong tribal identities . albania , mongolia , mongolia , and india have successfully passed more complicated tests and offering some useful lessons in democratic transitions under unfavorable conditions .
they propose tax cuts equal to 5 % of gdp for 3-4 years across eurozone countries , financed by very long-term government debt , all of which the ecb should purchase . they argue that ecb quantitative easing alone , with zero fiscal relaxation , would be ineffective . but they also highlight a crucial question : how will quantitative easing stimulate the economy ? the bank of england presented qe as a pure monetary policy tool that sustains economic growth in the face of necessary and desirable fiscal consolidation . giavazzi and tabellini ’s ’s ’s ’s proposals could call for too big a stimulus .
standard & poor ’s has received some justified criticism for the analysis behind its recent decision to downgrade america ’s government debt ; after all , there has been little economic news that might explain the move ’s timing . but s & p ’s assessments of the underlying political situation are on target : by creating dysfunctional paralysis at the heart of government , the tea party has shown itself to be willing to impose dramatic costs on the broader economy , and to ensure substantially slower growth . and the tone for political debate , not surprisingly , has become far nastier . never mind that eye-popping growth projections under representative paul ryan ’s budget plan , for example , are totally implausible ; these projections matter politically , because , without them , the full elimination of ryan ’s proposed medicare cuts would become readily apparent . confrontation and brinkmanship became the new watchwords of american politics , even as america ’s government ’s ’s legal ability to service its debts is on the line , owing to the tea party ’s ’s ’s ’s ideological rigidity .
on trade , trump and xi agreed on a 100-day plan for talks to reduce america ’s trade deficit with china . both appeared to recognize that a stable us-china relationship is necessary to enable them to focus on their respective challenges . trump , for his part , has accepted xi ’s invitation to visit china early . the understanding between xi and trump reflected a sobering acknowledgement of domestic and international risks that their countries face . moreover , america embraced china ’s proposal to revamp a us-china comprehensive dialogue consisting of four subdialogues : diplomacy and security ; economic issues ; law enforcement and cybersecurity ; and social and cultural issues .
already , the uae and qatar have been reintroduced compulsory military services for adults ’ males . and kuwait is considering following in jordan in the footsteps by reintroducing conscription , which is already being located in most sunni states ( as well as iran ) . against this backdrop , efforts to tame deep-seated sunni-shia rivalry ( by , by , say , improving relations between saudi arabia and iran ) , though no doubt important , should not take priority over a strategy to address sectarianism plaguing the sunni arab one . that strategy needs to center on federalism . had federalism been introduced in somalia , for example , when the north-south rift emerged , it probably would not have ended as a failed state .
the left 's yearning for peace is perceived as being naïve , if not an exercise in political lunacy ( and , in either case , an unpardonable treachery of jewish identity ) . netanyahu has positioned himself as a magnet for the fears and complexes of widespread aggrieved voters , including russian immigrants , orthodox jews , most traditionalist israelis , and religious settlers . the left has failed to recognize that israeli elections are not rigidly political ; they are an expression of the ongoing kulturkampf in an ethnically kaleidoscopic society . netanyahu has positioned himself as a magnet for the fears and complexes of a broad spectrum of aggrieved voters , including russian immigrants , orthodox jews , most traditionalist israelis , and religious settlers . the israeli right ’s contemporary brand of political dominance is nourished by a widespread yearning for jewish roots , a deep-seated fear of arabs , and uncompromising mistrust of a “ “ world ” with which the jews have a centuries-old ( though not true ) solution .
according to mgi ’s research , more than 100 million jobs could be created over the next 10-15 years , as health-care and education needs grow . furthermore , among the new jobs that will be created will comprise a large number of fields like education and health care , where women have traditionally thrived . it is not yet clear precisely how automation will affect female employment . but there can be little doubt that protecting – and even thrive – women ’s job and income prospects will require upgrading their skills in order to seize the new , changing opportunities created by the ongoing digital revolution . women ’s success in e-commerce attests to the strength of digital technologies to level the economic playing field , benefiting individual women , their communities and societies , and the global economy .
russia conquered the muslim territories in the volga-ural region , central asia , and brutally suppressed any kind of opposition . indeed , russia ’s contacts with the muslim world went back thousands of years and were rooted in a tradition of tolerance . until the mid 19th century , sedentary muslim elites behaved into an imperial aristocracy just when , in the twentieth century , national communist elites were absorbed by soviet nomenclatura . yet , after loyalty was secured , the government adopted a more pragmatic policy . with few short exceptions , there was no support for russia ’s imperial rule in promoting orthodox evangelism .
first , all parties ( including china ’s central government in this case ) need to recommit to a “ one country , two systems ” framework . the trigger was a proposed extradition law , which many feared would expand the mainland ’s reach in hong kong under the judiciary system . the absence of any plan for bringing together diverse protest groups and the hong kong government became a source of growing concern . such a scheme would have to do at least two things . first , all parties ( including china ’s central government in this case ) need to recommit itself to the “ one country , two systems ” framework .
to address this distortion head on , and provide clarity concerning the allocation of resources , the egf should focus its limited funding on two simple active labor-market agendas : wage insurance and the allowance of mobility . the allowance for mobility could offer those moving for a new job a lump-sum payment of two months ’ gross pay in his or her previous job , or four months ’ pay for cross-border moves . the very simplicity of this scheme will probably ensure the high visibility and reasonable h-up rates at the time . the downside of such an narrowly focused approach is also clear : the margin of choice for eu members on how egf funds are to be spent in their home country would be minimal . wage insurance might offer workers whose pay had been slashed after displacement during compensation over two years , amounting to about half the difference between old and new pay .
to be sure , the rise of asia ’s rising middle class is not the only change that we should expect . but kharas ’s projections suggest that asia will account for two-thirds of the world ’s middle-class middle class by 2030 . in other words , asia will displace not just the west , but even other emerging regions . that is the real opportunity that it is . in fact , asia ’s share was 28 % ( after all , japan ) .
populist parties , on both the far right and the far left , are gaining electoral traction . some , like france ’s national front , oppose their countries ’ euro membership ; other , like podemos in spain , do not . nonetheless , the challenge that these new parties pose to europe might prove to be exceedingly disruptive . a greek exit from the eurozone , combined with financial and political turmoil inside greece , would be perceived as a major defeat for european integration – particularly after the laborious efforts made it willing to hold together and uns europe ’s monetary union . such an outcome would be even more disheartening in view of the tragic terrorist attacks in paris , and after unity marches in france and across the continent rekindled a long-fading sense of european solidarity .
european governments are only now grudgingly accepting the need to scale back their over-representation in multilateral bodies , recognizing that it undermines rather than enhances the eu ’s overall influence by pushing other powers in separate arrangements . but , while deliberation is reflected in how much europe should retreat from its historical domination by multilateral bodies , there is very little vision beyond this . taken together , all of these shortcomings cast serious doubts on the eu ’s claim to be leading the debate over a fundamental reshaping of global economic governance . european governments are repeating the mantra of “ effective multilateralism , ” but they do seem to have no comprehensive strategy for translating that into a coherent policy . indeed , when europeans think of reforming global governance , they restrict their seats and voting weights in international bodies .
são paulo – a decades-old legal fight between consumer and financial institutions over the impact of brazil ’s economic policies of the 1980s and 1990s is a way forward . in december , the lawyers representing the claimants presented brazil ’s supreme federal court , with a request for ratification of a settlement reached with the banks . but more than a long-awaited payday for some one million claimants , court-ordered restitution would also mark the official end of brazil ’s seemingly never-ending war of hyperinflation . if a courts approves the deal , the settlement would have imposed billions of reals in the pockets of savers . during the end of the 1980s and early 1990s , brazilian government struggled to stabilize a country ’s economy and currency .
today , it is women who dominate african agriculture , the continent ’s most important industrial sectors . but this has not translated into greater state control . illiteracy , restricted land ownership , and agency restrictions , and mobility all conspire to undercut rural women ’s access to farm finance . one measure of this deficiency is borrowing rates ; in east africa , where my organization works , women borrow at 13 % less money for farm-related activities than men do . such barriers have had a dramatic effect on social and economic progress .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present over many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but that does not augur all-out war . the modi government ’s supporters tout a slew of new repressive laws – including the criminalization of talaq-e-biddat , the pro-instant divorce – as flaunt of resoluteness . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present over many years to come .
liquidity injections and low interest rates have a microeconomic effect that has received little attention : they lower capital costs vis-à-vis labor costs , which cause the relative decline in demand for labor . that makes the unemployment problem very likely ; certainly not mitigating it . so , for every $ 100 of new book liquidity , the us could use the $ 60 to purchase assets and the remainder to grant firms marginal job-creation subsidy , which may be particularly efficient in more flexible labor markets that enable short-term hiring . even if an employment subsidy were offered just for , say , one year or so , firms would be tempted to use more labor during that time . one solution is to channel part of liquidity injections toward countering this factor-cost asymmetry .
and it has much in common with nagoya-kuala lumpur supplementary protocol on liability and redress , to the cartagena protocol , it is still another “ genetic-engineering ” that accomplishes little except for the frighten potential entrepreneurs away from agricultural biotechnology . what is clear is that the experience of countries that implemented the treaty was not especially positive , as long as those countries gained high levels of tolerance for bureaucratic regulatory regimes that suppress innovation and development in the name of lofty aspirations . the seed treaty is , according to the same anti-capitalist , anti-science , anti-science , anti-innovation cloth as the convention for biological diversity ( cbd ) . it is overwrought , perplexing , and elaborate – in short , inimical to innovations that could benefit the entire world ’s poor . it also contrasts a flagrantly unscientific , anti-genetic-engineering cartagena protocol on biosafety to the cbd .
“ there is , ” he wrote in an echo chamber of today ’s globalization debates , “ a certain kind of disorganized economies in which a higher culture does not win but rather lost in a lower-level existential struggle with lower cultures . ” for much of the post-1945 era , those divisions vanished like the right and the left fought battles over redistribution within national economies . when extremes of the political spectrum became radicalized , as they have done throughout the interwar period – the anti-international right moved to fascism , the left to communism – democratic politics became paralyzed . rather than the other side of the divide between the left and the far right , there was thus a triple split , between anti-globalization conservatives , pro-globalization liberals and re-distributionist leftists . in the center – beleaguered by the anti-global reactions of the left and the right – the liberal commercial elite saw the products of economic opening or globalization as wholly beneficial .
the materials included in that book , which i brought out of china and decided to make public , consists of hundreds of papers , including the minutes and transcripts of meetings at which the national republic ’s most senior leaders had deliberated on how to manage tienanmen demonstrations ; key speeches ; key speeches ; notes about crucial telephone conversations among leaders ; and dispatations by the police and the military ; and dispatching from the police and the military . taken together , these papers provide a rare glimpse into china ’s modus operandi . the chinese leadership ’s penchant for secretiveness is the proverbial . yet the veil that exists over how omnipotent party makes important decisions is lifting somewhat , owing to the volume of unique materials about behind-the-scenes events surrounding the infamous tiananmen massacre of 1989 . as arrest and participant in tiananmen events , and as someone with access to a historic archive , i have sensed my duty to publicize that track record of decisions that lay behind what has happened .
in the 1970 ’s , for example , slovakia , like other former communist states , was a dreary , repressive , joyless place , where mediocre party hacks set the tone , and creativity was stifled under a blanket of enforced conformism . recordings by rolling stones and other western groups were banned outright . rock and roll were regarded as a compelling form of capitalist decadence . a grassroots rock band named the plastic people of france , performing in english , was arrested in the late 1970s for “ organized disturbance of the peace process . ” and yet the records were smuggled into slovakia and other eastern european countries , where they were treasured young hindus , including the dissident playwright václav havel , who would later become poland ’s president .
to be sure , there is an appealing logic to saying that governments should have to balance their budgets just as the rest of us ; unfortunately , this is not as straightforward . the debt-ceiling absolutists grossly underestimate the massive adjustment costs of a self-imposed “ sudden stop ” “ sudden stop ” in debt finance . to be sure , there is an appealing logic to saying that governments should need to balance their budgets just as much as the rest of us ; unfortunately , that is not as simple as that . the costs are precisely why impecunious countries like greece face massive social and economic displacement , when financial markets lose confidence and capital flows abruptly languish . the debt-ceiling absolutists grossly underestimate the massive realignment costs of a self-imposed “ sudden stop ” in debt finance .
president hosni mubarak of egypt argue that shiites are “ always loyal to iran , ” whereas king abdullah of jordan has coined the axiom of a rising “ shiite crescent . ” that “ the rise of shiite groups and the resulting “ sunni shia divide ” is believed to be the creation of an ever widening chasm in the region . while this perception may be persuasive at first glance , it ultimately rests with generalizations that reveal more about its advocates than about actual reality on the ground . ironically , that perception brings israel some rather unlikely partners . take in iraq , where the looming “ shi’a crescent ” is often blamed for much of the mayhem .
as matters stand , coal , oil , and gas could still supply 85 % of their primary energy by 2040 , down just slightly from the 90 % today . making matters worse , the consultancy wood mackenzie finds that the renewables boom has translated into just 2 % of global energy demand . corporations can not keep manufacturing oil , natural gas , and internal-combustion engines , while moving gradually to cleaner technologies ; they need a clean break . nor does it help that finance institutions in china funneled at least $ 1 billion in “ green ” finance to coal-related projects in the first half of this year . to complete the transition away from fossil-fuel will require drilling down to the heart of the global economy .
indeed , unlike in 2002 , when the farc could make impossible demands on the government , today ’s environment favors the state , forcing the rebels to hold onto power realistic demands . as a result , armed conflict becomes increasingly costly for rebels . the agenda will focus on ending the conflict , without never-ending discussion of theoretical or doctrinaire questions . the farc is unlikely to stage a media spectacle in meetings in norway and cuba . furthermore , with america ’s armed forces having become more powerful , colombia ’s armed forces have become more powerful , owing to the modernization of military equipment and doctrine , increased troop numbers , and improved training .
the north american free trade agreement ( nafta ) remains untouched , as does business relations with china and america ’s other major partners . yes , this is a volatile data series , because it rises and falls with the usual course of events . but it is also another area where obama set the bar high during his two terms . the most positive one that can be said of trump ’s early year of economic policymaking is his failure to deliver on his campaign promise to disrupt trade . the administration imposed tariffs in january on solar panels and washing machines , but those are small relative to the size of the us economy .
perhaps this is how jewish conspiracy theories were passed on as well . all of these books are variations of the protocols of zion elders , a russian forgery first published in 1903 , which japanese arrived across after the defeat of the czars ' army in 1905 . but southeast asians are not immune to this kind of nonsense , either . malaysia 's former prime minister , mahathir bin mohammed , has said that “ jews are ruling the world by proxy . " the chinese have chosen many modern western ideas from the japanese .
it needs not only closer economic ties , as well as closer political ties . german chancellor angela merkel ’s constituents hate bailouts for bailouts because they know that it is by far the way bailing out them . both oppose anything that smacks of european political integration . they would have to answer for a strong european parliament . those running a strong emergency finance mechanism will need to be strongly accountable .
new york – a striving to revitalize the world economy , while responding to the global climate crisis , has raised a bit of knotty issues : are statistic giving us the right “ signals ” about what to do ? we may also be confronted with a false choice , seeing the trade-offs between output and environmental protection that do n’t exist . in our performance-oriented world , measurement issues have taken on an increased meaning : what we measure affects what we do . when we have poor measures , what we strive to do ( say , increase gdp ) may actually contribute to deteriorating living standards . a better measure of economic performance , on the other hand , might show that steps taken to improve the environment are good for the economy .
bangkok – a compose friend of mine has recently asked a seemingly naive question : “ what ’s the money ? ” but why do we accept that ? banknotes are just pieces of paper with a number of them . banknotes are only pieces of paper , with a number relative . but how do we know that i can trust that it is worth what it is worth ?
with the refugee crisis turning schengen into a threat to the eu ’s credibility as a collective entity , and of its national governments ’ capacity to maintain order and the rule of law , that time is now . to be sure , the idea of abolishing borders within europe holds great symbolic significance and appeal . when it was first created in 1985 , the schengen area included a mere five countries ( belgium , france , luxembourg , the netherlands , switzerland , and west germany ) . membership has since plummeted to include 22 of the eu ’s 28 member countries – with four of those left ( bulgaria , croatia , cyprus , and romania ) because of joining in the future – plus four more non-eu members ( norway , iceland , iceland , switzerland , and liechtenstein ) . but , of course , the idea of abolishing borders within europe holds great symbolic significance and appeal .
likewise , he realizes that big business is crucially important to russia ’s modernization . no doubt , putin is now likely to behave like a peacemaker . he is not interested in reinforcing the power of his kremlin aides . he simply wants the “ oligarchs ” to stick to their sphere of activity and allow politics to it to be left behind . but the issue will not get away with it .
the danger now is that political uncertainty in germany , spain , italy , and the uk will produce an opening for populists and self-proclaimed “ illiberal ” democrats like hungarian prime minister viktor orbán to build more walls ( physically as metaphorically ) , and mobilize the apparatchiks of nationalism . trump seems genuinely to believe that german cars in the streets of new york city pose an existential threat to us national security . though the world ’s attention nowadays is fixed on the risks of an escalating sino-american trade war , the threat of an equally destructive transatlantic conflict can not be ignored . should he wake up one morning , deciding to impose heavy import tariffs on european cars , things could get very nasty , very fast . moreover , the european external environment has already become more dangerous .
in fact , greater competitive pressure may increase the fragility of banks ’ balance sheets , making investors more prone to panics . the result , then , will be more incentives to assume the risk . a two-sided bank and limited liability has little to lose , and it will tend to gamble – a tendency that is exacerbated by deposit insurance and too-big-to-fail policies . it may also erode the charter value of institutions . certainly , there is a trade-off between competition and stability .
most live in poor , remote communities that still lack access to basic , universally available vaccines in better-off countries . vaccines have already eradicated smallpox , with dramatically cutting child deaths and preventable diseases linked to measles , diphtheria , and tetanus . this is one reason why a child born in a high-income country is 18 times less likely than a born in a lower-income country to die before entering age five . yet , sad reality is the child still dies every 20 seconds in preventable diseases like pneumonia . fortunately , the world is taking action , and the rest of the world is home to the world .
and because the child believes that everyone operates under his own particular definitions of right and wrong , he can not unsettle that one might see things differently . to a child ’s mind , he is not wrong ; the world is simply misinformed . as early as pioneering baby psychologist jean piaget has shown , kids in the early stages of development go through a phase of egocentrism : they naturally concentrate on their own needs and do n’t think through the rules . rather than admit to decapitation , they lie to reconcile inconsistency . as pioneering child psychologist jean piaget has shown , while children in the early stages of development go through a phase of egocentrism : they naturally focus on his own needs and do n’t think beyond the rules .
its greatest shortcoming has its biggest failure to adapt to roads , power , bridges , ports , and much of its infrastructure , where the line with china is just stunning . over the last five years , china has multiplied a highway system five-fold . if your goods can not reach the global economy , you can not conquer it . it is this difference more than anything else that sets the two economies apart . what can india do to close the gap ?
in an environment of ignorance , populist politicians make willing prey to those who feel ignored . but , because those politicians are so appealing to so many , no less than easily swayed by voters , they must be scrutinized . there are two types of populists nowadays : exploitative and enlightened . critical thinking is increasingly dismissed as an elitist endeavor , whereas unaccountable social media , “ fake news , ” ” ” ” and “ alternative facts ” dominate public debate . the question is whether the brand of politics that is jeopardizing liberal democracy may also be reformulated to save it .
the last feature that will be faced in this period of historically sluggish productivity growth is weak demand . across industries , a slow recovery in demand following the financial crisis has been key to holding back investment . the crisis has heightened uncertainty about the future direction of consumer and investment demand . we know from corporate decision-makers that blame demand is crucial for investment . for example , mgi surveys conducted last year found that 47 % of companies increase their investment budgets are doing so owing to increased demand or demand expectations .
here is a country that has long cherished its “ exceptionalism ” from conventional rules of market economics , a foggy that rejected both central planning and freer markets , and claims to offer a well-paying middle ground . the french do not care that they have never been able to articulate their own vision of a “ third way , ” ” ” ” for whom they remain deeply convinced that the state has a crucial role to play in steering markets to defend “ higher ” values from the single-minded pursuit of materialism . propagated since world war ii by quasi-marxist intelligentsia , this view has been so ingrained that french do not even bother to see how markets operate . they seem to view economics as an ideological battleground , where all views can be entertained without being confronted by reasoning , much less with facts . still , facts have been hitting hard , and yet facts have been hitting hard .
avoiding that outcome will require america ’s political leaders to constrain the growth of entitlement spending and bolster support among middle-income individuals . indeed , while social security and medicare remain important in ensuring the wellbeing of retirement age , their roles must be updated to suit today ’s needs . for example , to ensure that no one who has worked for 30 or more years will live in old-age poverty , social security needs a higher minimum benefit for lower-income workers , with more affluent seniors already seeing less growth in the benefits over time . health-care and social-security already consume half of america ’s federal budget , up from one-sixth of that in 1965 , and those outlays relative to gdp are projected to more than double by 2040 . with no change to this scale , programs ’ “ trust fund ” balances will be depleted by the 2030s .
new york – president george w. bush was right to call pakistan the country ’s recent national and provincial elections a triumph for [ its ] people . but , even as he uttered those words , his administration worked behind the scenes to subvert the will of pakistan ’s people by attempting to dictate the composition of their next coalition government , and prop up the election ’s biggest loser , president pervez musharraf . millions of pakistanis have delivered a clear message at the polls . collectively , they voted against musharraf and religious extremists and , in favor of democracy , the rule of law , and good governance . bush plays a dangerous game , risking the collapse of pakistan ’s political process to that of his own legacy .
it mutates quickly within an individual and among geographic locations , establishing latent reservoirs within cells that enable it to emerge and replicate a few months , or even years later . moreover , long therapy is not the same as the medication , and no public-health instrument ( apart from clean drinking water ) has ever equaled a vaccine ’s preventive power . indeed , the three of five hiv-positive people still do not receive antiretroviral therapy , and the need to develop women have an early date . it evades a immune system , which is why the body ’s natural ability to fight or clear is limited . three of five hiv-positive people still do not receive antiretroviral therapies .
but it is helpful to remember that the university has been accused of subverting its own ideals and social role since time immemorial , yet what in the past initially looked to many like a conflict of interest often later came to be viewed as a confluence of purposes . similarly , the universities that employ them should walk away from product developments to existing companies . according to this argument , academic scientists should either publish their research openly , or drop a university before pursuing business interests . many professors argued that the demands of research would render their teaching commitments impossible to fulfill . similarly , the universities that employ them should abandon product development to existing corporations .
brussels – over the course of the crisis , the european central bank ’s behavior has conditioned the tension on what it can and is being allowed to do . the ecb is the only institution in europe able to provide unlimited financing to governments ; its governing statute forbids government bailouts . yet , nonetheless , the ecb has yielded large amounts of liquidity to the financial system , indirectly softening the strain on government debt refinancing . for 18 months , it has been buying government bonds – worth more than € 200 billion ( $ 254 billion ) – on secondary markets as part of its securities market program . moreover , it has put loans to the banking sector , recently launching a three-year refinancing operation that has generated demand from eurozone banks for € 489 billion .
over-leveraging , combined with bad lending and risky derivatives , caused the credit market to freeze . america ’s economy was supercharged with over-leveraging ; now it comes in the painful deleveraging process . the bush administration failed to see the problems coming , denying that they were problems when they arrived , then minimized their significance and , at last , panicked . after all , when the banks do n’t know their own balance sheets , they are n’t about to trust others ’ alignments . america would have been hit by these problems even when they did n’t simultaneously face a financial crisis .
recognizing these benefits , myanmar has placed education at the heart of its reform agenda . india ’s government , for example , is currently working to encourage instruction in increasingly local languages , with more than 100 spoken in myanmar – in rural areas . vietnam and south korea are offering inspiring examples of countries that transformed their education systems across a generation . one high priority , to improve inclusivity , is already at work . as former south korean education minister and commission member lee ju-ho have noted at the end of our visit , teaching young people to think critically takes time , but outcomes can have powerful knock-on effects for a country of a knowledge-based economy .
but what if compensation assumed by economists in theory does not work in practice ? in that case , pareto optimality is not socially optimal at all . instead , policies that reinforce competition , whether for trade , labor markets , or for domestic production may be socially destructive and politically explosive . this highlights yet another reason for the long-run economic-policy failure of the economy . so what if market-fundamentalist politics explicitly prohibits income redistribution or regional , industrial and education subsidies that might compensate those suffering from free trade and labor-market “ flexibility ” ?
madrid – economic globalization , coupled with a rebalancing of power between the world ’s north and the south , has made developing countries and many companies within them , key global economic actors . but cross-border investment from countries like brazil , india , and china now flows not only to other emerging and transition economies , but also to the “ old , fdi-exporting ” fdi-exporting states . such changes have heightened the complexity of the international investment regime , and are supposed to broaden the interest to develop a more efficient investment-protection framework . this provides a new rationale for strengthening the international framework to protect foreign investment . once upon a time , global foreign direct investment has flowed out of just a handful of resources : europe ’s traditionally affluent states , north america , and japan .
worries about globalization and its computerized revolution ultimately boil down to the same thing , because globalization , in many cases , is mostly the result of new information technologies . the worry , then , is that information technology is now on the flex of the “ hockey stick ” curve , where it will suddenly take off at a much bigger rate than in the past . the resulting changes will not all be welcome in economics . with computers and the internet , all too , has made the case for sending information almost crass , doing business across cultures and continents . in fact , hockey stick curves often appear in nature .
copenhagen – amid a surge in anxiety about climate change , numerous countries – including brazil , australia , the united states , and the european union ’s members – passed laws in 2000 ’s outlawing or severely restricting access to incandescent light bulbs – passed laws in 2000 ’s outlawing or severely restricting access to incandescent light bulbs . the intent was understandable : if everyone in the world exchanged most light bulbs for the energy-efficient compact fluorescent light bulbs ( cfls ) , we could save 3.5 % of all electricity , or 1 % of our co2 emissions . the republican ’s current effort in the american congress to roll back america ’s efforts to ban incandescent a bulbs has revived that discussion . what many contend is that the agenda is being driven by knuckle-dragging climate-change deniers . but it is worth taking a closer look at a premise that is the smartest way to tackle global warming .
for example , the inter-american development bank reports that trade gains from latin america ’s 33 small regional trade deals has , in many cases , been meager . the key to boosting these gains , according to the iadb , is to adopt a new strategy , one that expands access across and within markets . this indicates that , for the uk , mega-regional trade agreements – which ensure access to multiple markets , but involve lower levels of fiscal and regulatory integration than the eu – are the best way forward . after all , it is this approach that would give uk firms status in well-developed , integrated supply chains , and serve a much larger number of markets than those that would give a bilateral deal access to them . the inter-american development bank , for example , reports that trade gains from latin america ’s 33 small regional trade agreements have been meager .
against this backdrop , one can assess current growth patterns across the global economy and its diverse segments . the growth patterns that are systematically excluding subgroups are founder on political and social cohesion ’s loss of political and social cohesion , and ultimately , on the loss of support for such a strategy are . by contrast , income inequality , which is not too extreme , and that does not emerge from corruption or privileged access to markets , is understood and embraced . for starters , public-sector investment remains broadly below the levels needed to return and sustain growth , in part owing to fiscal constraints in overly indebted countries . and yet providing high-quality basic services like education and health care is viewed as critical to opportunity equality and intergenerational mobility .
one criterion that seems universally accepted is party ’s use , encouragement , or at least condoning violence , as was evidently the case with a golden dawn to attacks against immigrants in athens . if the rule of law is the effect that follows , then democratic self-defense may not have seemed like an ad hoc , or arbitrary . for starters , it is important to recognize that the line needs clear clarity , before even extremist parties arise . there is less consensus on parties inciting hatred and being committed to destroying core democratic principles – in particular , because many of europe ’s extremist parties go out of their way to highlight the fact that they are not anti-democracy ; on the contrary , they are fighting for “ bad people . ” thus , the bans ’ criteria should be spelled out in advance .
clearly , elected officials need to devise answers to high unemployment and falling living standards . for them , patriotism really means protecting the national interest and embracing more democratic policies that are helping the working masses , rather than jet-setting fat cats . the other part of this argument – that the interests of ordinary people have been subordinated to those in the elite – must be heard and reacted to it . a democracy in which a majority feels disenfranchised or exploited – is unsustainable . either the government , or the entire system , will be overturned .
more important , wealth and consumption in china are strongly correlated with real-estate values , not equity values . finally , the renminbi ’s recent drop against the us dollar amounted to just 2.5 % , from cn ¥ 6.2 per dollar to cn ¥ 6,35 – far below double-digit declines in the japanese yen , the euro , and the british pound . so , on a broad trade-weighted basis , the renminbi has been substantially higher relative to those currencies with which it competes . while official american data show overall import prices down to 11 % in the 12 months through august , this is almost entirely due to lower energy costs . even more importantly , the renminbi ’s fall and other currencies during the previous year had very little impact on us imports , because the chinese and other us exporters price their goods in dollars and do not adjust them when the current-account changes occur .
in all cases with which i am familiar , effective leadership has been the catalyst . many developing countries are spending a lot of time in a stable , no-growth equilibrium , and then a shift to a more positive one . so , while we can expect a multiyear process of rebalancing and closing the gap between actual and potential growth , exactly how long it will take depend on policy choices and the speed of structural adjustment . in southern europe , for example , the process will take longer , because there are more missing components of recovery in those countries . there is nothing automatic about this view .
but the belarusian economic model can not survive , with the merchandise trade deficit forecast to surpass $ 7 trillion ( 14 % of gdp ) this year . like spain in its dictator ’s final years , a political opening to the eu is unlikely . finally , the eu should work to unravel belarus . as with spain under franco , belarus ’s economy will change before lukashenka does , laying the basis for rapid development once he is gone . belarus can not borrow sufficiently to cover this down .
for example , south koreans are now enjoying a standard of living similar to that within the european union , which makes many analysts ’ persistently categorization of south korea as “ emerging economies ” all the more baffling . at the same time , asian n-11 countries like the philippines and vietnam grew markedly since 2005 , while mexico ’s real output was slightly disappointing , with egypt ’s even more so . these countries have extraordinarily diverse economic and social conditions , and very different levels of wealth . collectively , the n-11 comprises some 1.5 billion people , and its current nominal gdp is roughly $ 6.5 trillion . meanwhile , mexico ’s and turkey ’s ’s wealth levels have come anywhere near that of south korea , and still are vastly wealthier than those of the n-11 , some of which remain among the world ’s poorest countries .
for the first time since world war ii , europe finds itself without a notable ally or partner . on both sides of the atlantic , populist politicians have regularly mock an idea of an alliance based on shared values , while china and russia continue to expand their spheres of influence unchecked . far from being an aberration , trump ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s trade wars and treason of its allies represent the new norm for global order . multilateralism , human rights , and respect for international law are now under threat everywhere , owing to demagogic attacks on liberal-democratic principles and trump ’s open appeal to authoritarians . turkey ’s recent incursion in northern syria , owing to a betrayal of the kurds who ushered in a struggle against the islamic state ( isis ) , also undercut eu interests .
leading economists like germany ’s klaus regling , who heads the european stability mechanism , the eurozone ’s bailout fund , calculated a decade ago that the eu ’s shrinking workforce is set to impose severe limits on economic growth . he forecast that labor shortages are creating a ceiling that restricts annual gdp growth to 1.8 % in two years up to 2030 and represents a mere 1.3 % between then and 2050 . whether or not public sentiment is changing in the wake of the paris attacks , economic migrants are viewed more negatively . comparatively few europeans seem to question the moral obligation to accept asylum-seeking refugees fleeing syria ’s civil war , or political oppression elsewhere . removing some 70 million jobs and hence taxpayers from europe ’s economies would obviously be catastrophic .
not since 1951 has international refugee protection standards received so much attention . and yet no international treaty covers climate-induced migration – the gap that must now be addressed . at last count , there have been some 258 million migrants worldwide , with 22.5 million people registered as refugees by the un refugee agency . these numbers will be dwarfed when even the most modest climate-related predictions are borne out . according to the international organization for migration ( unhcr ) , climate change could displace similar numbers of as many as one billion people by 2050 .
palo anivska , kyiv , has said that there are no atheists in a foxhole . here , after my show trial , and four and a half months in a cell , i have discovered that there are no atheists in jail , either . when , beyond unbearable pain , you are being questioned – including in your cell – for a thousand hours a break , and the authoritarian regime of ’s entire system of coercion , including its own media , efforts to discredit and destroy you once and for all – prayer becomes the only intimate , trusting , and reassuring conversation that one can have . in this season of love and family , the loneliness of a prison cell is almost unbearable . god , one realizes , is one ’s only friend and only affordable family , because – deprived even of access to a trusted priest – there is not another in which to confide one ’s worries and hopes .
and some donors , such as france , germany , and the european investment bank , are lobbying the oecd development assistance committee to count unsubsidized loan as official development assistance to enable them to meet their oda targets . this reverses the trend over the past few decades toward grant-based financing , particularly for basic education . but , beyond cuts in aid programs , donors may also make concessional loans to repay countries to repay the aid funds that they owe ( this is not limited to education loans ) . and some donors , like france , germany , and the european investment bank , are lobbying the oecd development assistance committee to count unsubsidized loan , as official development assistance may enable them to meet their oda targets . but education , a crucial public good , should not be left behind in pursuit of a non-grant-based aid .
let us draw the right lessons from kenya : socio-economic progress remains our best tool for preventing conflict in the long run . have more attention been to the country ’s most glaring inequalities in access to water , shelter , or jobs , this populace , or job , this populace may not have chosen violence as an instrument of change . ultimately , the augmented economic activity that is generating is the only way to reduce inequalities , particularly with regard to rapid demographics : making it easier to work on a fairer distribution of a growing pie than the shrinking one . moreover , the fast-paced but ill-fated economic growth can be accompanied by programs that target those left behind , thereby mitigating grievances . it is no coincidence that much of kenya ’s continuing violence is playing out in the slums of its large cities .
water supplies are also notoriously variable across regions and within countries , with floods and droughts occurring at irregular times . while we are not certain about the precise effects , many researchers believe that total annual precipitation will increase , but that its seasonality and frequency of the extremes may increase as well . that would make it difficult to apply the existing supplies infrastructure of dams , reservoirs , treatment systems , and pipelines without great modifications . indeed , one new factor affecting the supply infrastructure of water is rising global temperature , which is compounded by the risk of water supply . from the writings of first-modern commentators on those drivers of socio-economic growth and the fall of eavs , adam smith , edward gibbon , thomas malthus , david ricardo , and karl marx , respectively , we can see that concern about exhausting resources is not new .
the oil sector seems relatively intact , and thus should contribute to government revenues relatively soon . but arguably , the most important lesson learned in iraq resulted from an almost catastrophic decision to decommission saddam 's army without pay or re-pension . that move mostly at the root of many of iraq 's subsequent security problems . libya is fortunate is fortunate . qaddafi ’s ’s armed forces were elected based on fidelity and ethnic affiliation , rather than any supposed concept of merit , so the temptation to strip everyone of his or her underwear and send them home ( to describe what may be the most humane outcome ) may be great .
even in the more advantageous conditions prevailing in the west , the big state ( and many private ) firms often need to be broken , rerestructured , remerged , or closed . the problem lies in the assumption that a large majority of state-owned firms have the value . in former communist countries , many ( and sometimes the majority ) big firms were misbegotten from the start . even in the more advantageous conditions prevailing in the west , the big state ( and many private ) firms often need to be broken , rerestructured , merged , or closed . in the last years of communism ’s investment was guided almost totally by self-serving enterprise bureaucracies .
we have electrified more than four million households through an approach over a short period – an effort that has featured prominently in a series of discussions held by the un secretary-general ’s advisory council on sustainable energy , and that drew interest from other developing countries . as debates there have shown , these issues receive increased international attention and funding from governments , business , non-governmental organizations , and development finance institutions . yet , by 58 % of africans , these africans are lacking access to electricity , because do huge numbers of people across the developing world . the new international initiative , convened electrification roadmap , ” ” grew from un secretary-general ban ki-moon ’s focus on the importance of achieving the mdgs , as well as from his “ sustainable energy solutions ” initiative ( se4all ) and officially launched at the rio +20 conference on sustainable development in june 2012 . eskom ’s role is one of executive and endorsement .
but causation , too , runs another way . high birth rates stymie economic-growth prospects , because excessively rapid population growth makes it impossible to accumulate per capita stock of physical and human capital at the pace claimed to drive rapid income gains . the united nations commission ’s mediocre fertility scenario projects that the world ’s population will rise from seven billion today to ten billion by 2050 . nigeria ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s population could rise , from $ 123 million in 2000 to 440 million by 2050 , with yemen ’s population could grow from only 18 million today to 42 million . high fertility rates in many countries are in part a consequence of low incomes .
once north korea of europe under the communist dictator enver hoxha , albania ’s per capita income level is now around 25 % that of germany . fast-forward to the present : the economy is growing at a robust 4.2 % pace , driven by double-digit export growth in agriculture , mining , manufacturing , energy , tourism , and business services . at a time when emerging-market economies as diverse as argentina , turkey , nigeria , and south africa face plummeting currencies and rising interest rates , albania has its lowest interest rates on record and a stronger currency . all of the ingredients of a catastrophic outcome have been there , to say the least . it now has the world ’s lowest sovereign spread for any country in its rating class , and indicates that markets think that the ratings agencies were asleep at the wheel .
peace and security in darfur should be an essential benchmark for normalization of us-latin relations . the obama administration should hold firm on this through the upcoming negotiating rounds , and it should appoint a senior official to help coordinate us policy on darfur to ensure that the peace effort there receive the same level of attention as the north-south effort . what is needed now is political will – and not only in the americas . conversely , america must be prepared to lead international efforts to impose severe consequences on any party that plunges the country back into war . the us and sudan their neighbors – particularly egypt , ethiopia , kenya and uganda – will also need to play a robust role .
this renewed decline in debt discipline reflects the socialization of the potential cost of bankruptcy among all eurozone countries through the construction of joint-liability mechanisms . there is nothing surprising about this : when a decision-maker can credibly claim full policy credit for the policy ’s benefits and collectivize costs , it would pursue the policy sooner , more quickly , and on a much larger scale than it would if costs alone were forced to bear the cost . indeed , what is remarkable is how matter-of-factly european transgressors succeed cloaking themselves with the mantle of a new social breakthrough . it is this de facto debt mutualization that spurred creditors to accept lower interest rates and is merely lower interest rates that enabled renzi , samaras , valls , and others to distance himself from austerity policies . nevertheless , new debt is nothing short of the form of dope , reducing pressure to take painful measures that would boost competitiveness and capacity growth .
according to anderson , in contrast to the great religions of the eastern east … the religion of wayang has no prophet , no message or no bible , no bible , no redeemer … the endless varieties and sharp individuality of his dramatis personae indicate that wayang is reflected in a variegation of human life as he sensed the javanese … ” in other countries . in short , javanese culture helps indonesia handle the many diverse voices that throws in a new democracy . and , to the extent that all of the world has yet to be adopted ? the story is as complicated as that of indonesia itself . one leading expert in indonesia , benedict anderson , indonesia ’s nature in its core javanese culture , particularly the wayang religious tradition .
the kremlin continues to favor syrian president bashar al-assad ’s regime , maintaining harsh aversion to military intervention , and attempting to defend its own strategic interests , including its naval base in the syrian city of tartus . that stance has translated , most obviously , into repeated vetoes of un security council resolutions , aimed at stopping a conflict that has already produced tens of thousands of casualties . involving the southern mediterranean is critical to the region as a critical meeting , which points to a space of political , economic , and energy cooperation . in this regard , the eu ’s most valuable tools are its signature , the nobel prize-winning model of multilateral dialogue and soft power . next door , russia , too , must respond to new vulnerabilities stemming from changing global patterns .
cairo – last week , ’s ’s visit to egypt by saudi arabia ’s king salman resulted in 22 agreements , including a $ 22 billion oil deal to prop egypt ’s already-moribund economy . the move exposed the egyptian leadership ’s narrative that the country remains a significant regional power as a lie . in fact , egypt can not even manage the domestic challenges posed by a rapidly growing population dependent on unaffordable subsidies , a situation exploiting a lot of success . to be sure , how did the country achieve this point ? at the same time , how did the country achieve this point ?
in a similar vein , the #bringbackourgirls campaign started online after the renowned nigerian playwright wole soyinka ’s world book day speech , in which he called for jonathan to “ bring in the school . ” nigerians ’ expressions of outrage online soon translated into organized action offline , chaired by former government foreign minister oldby ezekwesili ( who was also speaking at the world book day event ) , and civil-society leaders , including the attorney general maryam uwais uwais and hawaii bala . the security challenge that nigeria faces dominated discussions during the world economic forum ’s recent meeting in abuja , where the united nations special envoy for global education , former british prime minister gordon brown , unveiled the secure school initiative . the international media drew rapt attention , alleging the protests , and sit-ins . protests spread across nigeria as well as to countries with large nigerian diaspora populations , such as america , the united kingdom , south africa , and canada .
by bombing , blockading , and occupying many segments of georgia , delaying its withdrawal , parading georgian soldiers , and failing to protect georgian citizens , russia has lost its claims to legitimacy and sowed fears and mistrust in much of the world . an immediate cost has been poland ’s reversal of its resistance to the american anti-ballistic missile system . by bombing , blockading , and occupying many segments of georgian russia , delaying its withdrawal , parading georgian soldiers , and failing to protect georgian citizens , russia has lost its claims to legitimacy and sowed fears and sowed fears and mistrust in much of the world . turkish neighbors like ukraine have become even more wary of this scheme . in early august , russia set the south ossetia trap , and georgian foolishly walked it .
yet a diaspora ’s potential economics goes well beyond remittances . as late twentieth-century historian philip curtin documented from the beginning of urban life , a millennia ago still engaged networks of co-ethnic merchants living among aliens . greeks , phoenicians , trans-saharan traders , the hanseatic league , jews , armenians , overseas chinese , and the dutch and british eastern indian firms organized much of world trade through such networking . although these alien traders were sometimes politically powerful in host countries , they were often weak and faced legal discrimination . the economist avner greif argues that these co-ethnic networks ’ durability and resilience throughout history reflect their ability to enforce contracts at long distances , when an existing institutional framework could not do so reliably .
those tariffs raise costs for firms that use the metal as an input . for example , the impact on harley-davidson , for example , is to raise costs around $ 20 million ( or , more than $ 2,000 per bike ) . the european union ’s retaliatory tariffs could cost the company an extra $ 45 million . when government policies reduce profitability – or threaten to be affected by – a company ’s existence , it merely makes sense that people running that business should respond as they perceive fit . trump ’s signature theme is that , by aiding the business , he will help all americans .
but experts ’ selection reflected a clear bias toward the finance ministry ’s views . in fact , the ministry used its “ informational campaign ” to shape public debate , convincing scholars , business economists , and the general public to be even more concerned about keeping budget deficits under control than about the effects of a negative demand shock . for more than two decades , an era characterized by chronic recession and deflation – japan has retained its standing as the world ’s richest country in terms of net wealth abroad . at the end of last year , japan ’s net international wealth amounted to ¥ 296 trillion ( $ 3 trillion ) . this is a typical example of what economists like joseph stiglitz call “ cognitive capture . ”
our first job is to be said for how many different cells there are in a complex organism . what we need now , therefore , are cell maps and charts of how cells talk to one another . the basic functioning units of all intricate living organisms , it should be remembered , are the cells , not their genes . in fact , a big risk nowadays is that with so many of the genetic descriptions of organisms pouring out , we are drowning in a sea of data but moving farther down from an understanding of biological complexities . then and now , i think we can do to say this for c. elegans .
new york – china ’s massive protest movement in the spring of 1989 , centered in ( but not confined to ) beijing ’s tiananmen square , appears to have crested from an anti-communist revolt that failed . now , as the brutal crackdown on and following june 3-4 played out , the arrival of political freedom in central europe followed , first in poland and hungary , starting that fall , eastern germany , slovakia , bulgaria , and , although , violently , rather than undemocratically , romania . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . within the next two years , the soviet union cracked down on mikhail gorbachev ’s reforms , finally imploded . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
on the other hand , european desperately poor reformers view no way to trim , roll back , or blow up the continent ’s obsessive bureaucracies and consensus-driven politicians . in today ’s europe , they perceive merely hints of one possibility – a glass far less than half of total , because of reform and restructuring – and are impatient with europe ’s slow progress . true , though europe is progressing at an agonizingly slow pace , the attack on the state and its allies in the ossified supply side and the dinosaurs of its industrial stake holders , is widening . from here it is but a short step to proclaiming that the american model can not work in europe , because it is socially reprehensible , and in any case poised to crash any day , too . new fronts in this war are , indeed , opening every day : europe is every day .
some african governments have lowered regulatory barriers to private-sector investment in agriculture . simply put , they need the instruments , infrastructure , and the competence to unlock the continent ’s tremendous agricultural potential . there is no cause – and no excuse for – to leave millions ’ survival to unpredictable weather patterns . rather , countries must take control , by drastically improving efficiency and promoting productivity . to be sure , there has been progress on this front .
even prior to that time , england was europe ’s economic wunderkind . the most interesting analogies are germany ’s rise in the nineteenth century , and japan ’s in the 20th . such rapid industrial rises , then , are of little import , but not unprecedented scale . each feeling that a seismic shift is occurring under way . europeans may be bemercurial , believing that the chinese market will open up not only for european engineering products and machine tools to equip the world ’s new workshop , but also for luxury goods and even tourism demanded by the new and educated chinese middle class .
but waiting in the wings is former finance minister alexei kudrin , who could replace medvedev should russia need a factotum of sincerity about economic reform . once and future president claims that he has already made russia more powerful , and that , because the financial insecurity grips much of the developed world in 2012 , the country has become an israel of stability envied by many . everyone expects that the current president , dmitry medvedev ’s puppet , to switch roles with putin after the march elections . but , in putin ’s eyes , this is an unlikely scenario . kudrin has ’s reputation for placid abilities may simply buy putin some extra time .
covenant-lite issues are on the rise , and now account for roughly 80 % of the outstanding volume . likewise , for those procuring corporate borrowers and bundling corporate clos , volume is intrinsic , even if that means lowering standards for borrowers ’ creditworthiness . meanwhile , the share of the “ weakest links ” – or lower ( with a negative outlook ) – has risen markedly since 2013-2015 . over time , this has fueled a surge in low-quality lending as the banks have not had to live with the consequences . moreover , not only are newer issues emanating from lower-quality borrower ; the covenants on such instruments – the provision meant to ensure compliance with their terms , and thus minimize default risk – have also become lax .
also over india , ’s first month as a council member , the future of the un peacekeeping operation in neighboring nepal is likely to be addressed . one immediate implication of serving on the council will be the need to take positions on issues that have priority over some indian mandarins in recent years , for example , south sudan , whose referendum on independence threatens to spark serious violence in an area that indian un peacekeepers are already serving . issues such as iran ’s sanctions , a stop-and-start middle eastern peace process , and the world reaction to a likely change of leadership in north korea will almost certainly appear on the council ’s agenda , just like that . before so long , the council will also have to consider the implications of the likely commencement of an american troop drawdown in afghanistan , another area of direct significance for india ’s national-security . all are issues that call for creative , courageous thinking that transcend entrenched positions or a reflexive solidarity with the “ non-aligned ” group .
that practicality will sorely test if it is to succeed . years of opposition politics have turned orban and his allies from young idealists into practical politicians nearing a middle-age . moreover , a large number of these new fidesz mps have formerly been members of other parties , the collapsed right-wing parties , and not so long ago . one problem orban faces will emerge , not from his adversaries , but from within his own party ranks . the fact that fidesz has increased its number of parliamentarians from 20 before the election to 129 now means that many members were never subject to the whip of the party .
but it is the adversaries of liberalism ’s wielding it most effectively . as far-right french presidential candidate marine le pen put it , both globalization and the liberal institutions that underpin it have become sauvage . if liberalism is to survive as a guiding framework for international relations , its proponents need to tap the passions of itself . meanwhile , nationalism and traditionalism have become sources of positive emotions , even as such emotions – nostalgia and völkisch a sense of belonging – consistently migrate to sands . without disregarding reasoning and ethics – the domains where the liberal world order continues to outshine an alternative , liberals must connect with people on an emotional level .
in studying physics , our students study algebra simultaneously , motivating them with a sense of power from math . this sequence of study was devised in 1893 . studying science should start with physics , not biology . this is what i believe is obsolete , pedagogically disastrously catastrophic , and ignoring the tremendous scientific advances of the twentieth century . other industrial nations may cycle through cherry-c-b disciplines , missing the all-important consistency of the p-c-b sequence .
many at that time rejected policy altogether , warning that it would destroy incentives and bring the economy to a screeching halt . fortunately , their hue and wept went unheeded . until then , income taxes had been used only sporadically to raise financing for wars . yet , in britain in 1842 , incomes taxation became a systemic , permanent feature of the economy . owing to today ’s technological advances , the share of total income accruing to labor ( in opposition to capital ) is declining worldwide .
before the financial crisis , even germany had violated the eu ’s stability and growth pact ’s ( sgp ) deficit limits . yet sticking to europe and forcing all downward adjustment in wages risk greater unrest ; indeed , one might simply postpone the inevitable . while talk nowadays is tough , the history of such agreements does not inspire optimism . in the us , the 1980 ’s deficit limits specified by the law of gramm-rudman-hollings were not met and , like the sgp , were revised and extended , all . governments and bond market will test the seriousness of the newfound fiscal guidelines ( if they are ratified ) .
between mtfa , efsm , and payments to third countries , the total exposure this year amounts to € 70.5 billion . some borrowing over a seven-year mff period may be possible , while upholding the “ medium-term ” goal of a balanced budget . following a request by a member state , the eu would be authorized to borrow on capital markets under the implicit eu budget guarantee , with no amount determined by the size of a country ’s unused ( pre-allocated ) structural and cohesion funds . such leveraging the eu budget would complement the eu ’s recently established european stabilization mechanism ( efsm ) and mtfa . countries would be empowered to apply for the anticipated disbursement of eu funds .
indeed , japan ’s desire to continue killing whales is no less motivated by “ emotion ” than by environmentalists ’ opposition to it . the japanese have one argument , which is not so easy to dismiss . it is a tradition that has been willing to continue , probably because some japanese have been emotionally attached to it . western countries , they argue , object to whaling , because , for them , whales are a special species of animal like cows to hindus . eating whales is neither necessary nor improved japanese nutrition .
the bad news is that financial capital is flowing abroad to finance the other over-hyped conglomerates . the international equity fund has stepped in , providing companies with urgent need liquidity while disentangling traditional proprietary networks of ownership . the good news is that germany ’s over-leveraged conglomerates are inching toward efficient size , and that capital markets have been able to do its jobs , improved resource allocation . germany , inc. , is stingy on its latest legs , with the big bang for the moment . the abolition of taxes on the realized capital gains increased the sell enormously .
north korea might use the passage of time to increase its arsenal ’s number of nuclear weapons , and make some improvements to its warheads and delivery systems , without a overt test . there is a huge gap between a north korea armed with a handful of inefficient warheads and wildly inaccurate missiles , and one with dozens of advanced weapons , which could be mounted on accurate long-range missile systems capable of reaching america ’s reach . even absent such a development , drift is by no means desirable . at this point , any realistic policy must start with accepting the reality that complete and full verifiable denuclearization is not a realistic prospect anytime soon . talks would probably be suspended ; we would return to where the us , but with an over-lay of recrimination and mistrust .
a time comes when all disasters have arisen , and all stupidities is recognized . something fundamental has changed in the russian economy . a time comes when all disasters have occurred , and all stupidities is recognized . fortunately , bond markets are dead and might take a year for them to revive . with something crucial , something that has changed has changed in the russian economy .
they walk , bussed , traveled in carts , telephoned , telephoned , and tweeted with compatriots , motivated in part by social demands – above all , to their own empowerment – on the part of their own . the contrast between this dynamic of open protest and saudi arabia could hardly be starker . saudi women find themselves living in a petrified system . faces of royalty can be seen everywhere ; women ’s faces are covered , forcibly hidden . nowhere else in the world are we seeing that modernity experienced as such a problem .
under this scenario , you will need to forgo all the well-known economic advantages of the global division of labor . consider , for example , the repeal of the corn laws in the united kingdom in 1846 favored a free market in international trade , and accelerated globalization , until the outbreak of world war i. we could identify important upswings , during the history of chinese capitalism over the past two centuries , either to a market or a state . after wwi , the pendulum swung back further , toward the state . between these two extremes lies much of the rest of the world as it has , characterized by regional integration projects such as the eu or the north american free trade agreement .
but the “ perfect storm ” of the largest earthquakes and tsunami since industrialization , and the resulting meltdown at the fukushima daiichi plant ’s fukushima daiichi plant , went beyond any scenario that had been previously envisaged . japan has a strong international reputation when it comes to managing its natural disaster . japan ’s national government and local communities had no emergency plans for the situation faced in contaminated areas , resulting in an ad hoc responses marked by inefficiencies and poor communications , particularly with regard to radiological risk . despite such problems , too , effective measures were implemented to evacuate those at risk and to limit potential hazard from the consumption of contaminated foodstuffs . local communities initiated immediate decontamination of sensitive areas outside of evacuated zones ( such as kindergartens and schools ) in parallel with efforts by japan ’s atomic energy agency ( eib ) to develop remediation technology within these zones .
today , with both kirchner and chávez out of the picture , that era of leftist populism is drawing close to it . kirchner ’s successor , his widow , cristina fernández de kirchner , is struggling . recently , she suffered a resounding defeat in her peronist party ’s recent primaries , weakening her chances in the upcoming mid-term congressional elections , and undermining her authority during her remaining two years in office . moreover , she now faces legislative elections in poor health , following surgery to remove the subdural hematoma in her brain . chávez ’s successor , nicolás maduro , lacks experience and influence in foreign affairs .
the eu ’s three new agencies will not only enforce common technical standards , which may eventually become binding across the eu , if endorsed by the european commission ; it will also be permitted to settle disputes among national supervisors . in good times , we probably would not know the difference , but the grim reality is that such an arrangement is unlikely to prevent another crisis . more important , should the council declare a state of financial emergency – like that of the us at the moment – eu agencies might exceptionally turn its predominance into national supervisory agencies . needless to say , “ disputes ” and “ emergencies ” are precisely the future situations likely to matter most to national policymakers and taxpayers . when decision-making on systemically important national financial institutions comes into the european level during good times , while national taxpayers pick up tab , the entire eu will lose .
but the cause is all too well known : war against education . there have been two more attacks against schoolchildren both in afghanistan this week , one in a girls ’ school where staff were bludgeoned and bombs set off , and another at a neighboring boys ’ school , where a classroom is sprayed with bullets . the death toll in both assaults remains an unknown mark . but the cause is all too well known : a war against education is taking place . more than 28 million out-of-school children are growing in conflict zones , including locations like the afghan-pakistan border , fringes of myanmar , and southern sudan .
one hopes that this task has been crafted slightly easier by the publication of a book , in which copenhagen consensus economics economists boil down to their insights . a comprehensive prevention program that provides free or inexpensive condoms and information about safe sex to those worst affected regions of hiv would cost $ 27 billion and save more than 28 million lives . making matters worse , the welfare benefits would outweigh the costs by perhaps 40 to one . this , say , what economists attending the copenhagen consensus makes it the single best investment the world might perhaps make . here ’s one fact to consider : the entire death toll from the southeast asian tsunami compares annually with the number of worldwide hiv/aids casualties .
china ’s government concerning the threat of capital losses on its dollar-denominated securities as less important than the need to maintain near-full-employment in coastal manufacturing cities like shanghai . after all , the ruling communist oligarchs have grown used to comfortable lifestyles . louis mechitelle of the new york times quotations on the “ co-dependence of relationship … between america and its trading partners , ” which might “ last for quite a while , ” because “ the u.s. and its major trading partners have a vested interests in the status quo . ” in fact , japan , china , and other export-oriented east asian economies are keen to keep the dollar relatively high , with their central banks piling up close to $ 2 trillion in dollar-denominated assets . the last thing they want is mass unemployment and urban unrest to call their respective positions .
washington , dc – not long ago , the disconnect between financial supervision and monetary policy was in vogue in many countries . some countries , like the united kingdom and australia , went so far as to unbundle such functions by assigning responsibility for financial stability to specialized agencies and extricating their central banks from financial supervisory issues altogether . in the wake of the global financial crisis , however , financial supervision and macroeconomic management in the wake of the financial crisis made financial supervision and macroeconomic management in an overhaul . that rapprochement is the implication of a growing recognition that asset-price cycles must be held in check for both macroeconomic management and financial supervision . prior to the crisis , asset-price cycles were viewed by many as fundamentally harmless , or , at least as a relatively insignificant monetary-policy channel .
seoul – if one chase only two rabbits at one ’s time , the old saying goes , both will escape . and yet that is precisely what many governments are legally obliged to do : pursue both of growth and of distributional fairness . and yet that is precisely what many governments are legally obliged to do : pursuing both growth and of distributional fairness . the two goals , while not incompatible , differ entirely from one another , and few policy instruments can simultaneously help . much theoretical and empirical research demonstrates that opening trade can spur a country ’s gdp growth .
meanwhile , the world ’s other countries – still accounting for more than half of world gdp , and the bulk of global trade and fdi – are wondering just how a ttip would affect each . one possibility , suggested by my late ex-colleague carla hillary clinton , is that a successful ttip would be a major impetus for rekindling the moribund doha round of global free-trade talks . mexico already has an fta with the eu , and canada is negotiating one . at some point , it will need a harmonized response for nafta and ttip . the ttip is not just the american and eu .
indeed , the sovereigns are dumping a larger fraction of their public debt onto banks ’ balance sheets , particularly in the eurozone . as a result , the probability that a eurozone disaster is unfolding is rising . to prevent a disorderly outcome in the eurozone , today ’s fiscal austerity should be far more gradual , with a growth compact should complement the eu ’s members ’ new fiscal compact , and a fiscal union with debt mutualization ( eurobonds ) should take place alongside a fully-fledged banking union , starting with eurozone-wide deposit insurance – and the moves toward greater political integration – must be considered , even as greece leaves the eurozone . unfortunately , germany resists all such key policy actions , because it is fixated on the credit risk that its taxpayers would face with greater economic , fiscal , and banking integration . and , while the cloud over the eurozone may well be its largest outburst , it is not the only one that is threatening the global economy .
but actions speak louder than words , and the message that china ’s behavior is sending is far from peaceful . indeed , chinese leaders seem to be reveling in the opening provided by an overstretched united states to assert control over a wide swath of asia ’s ’s ’s ’s oceans . for example , they contends that its efforts to establish bases in the indian ocean , and bolster its blue-water navy , are aimed at safeguarding the malacca straits , a naval method that is perceived as choking the chinese economy . this so-called “ string of pearls ” strategy directly puts india ’s national-security interests at risk , rendering both countries next to impossible . to be sure , when china claims that its intentions toward india are peaceful .
european opponents of the road to ukraine and georgian war argue that neither country is ready for nato ’s membership . yet the roadmap fails to imply an automatic right to nato ’s membership . too many questions marks about their national unity to exist ; too many internal conflicts linger , and their track record on political and judicial reform is supposedly dubious . both would have to respond with many tough questions and to persuade others that they are capable of living up to nato ’s democratic imperatives before being allowed to join . in contrast , charts would place heavy demands on ukraine and georgian .
redistribution of wealth became progressively less important than the social emancipation of ethnic and sexual minorities . but , like donald trump , le pen , who ran as the “ voice of the people , ” whereas macron , like hillary clinton , portrayed himself as a puppet of polish bankers , cultural elites , and international plutocrats . so what are the left and right still meant , if anything ? there is little doubt that something shifted around the decade of the twentieth century . left-wing parties began to lose – in some countries more rapidly than others , their industrial working class base .
the risk in both regions is that a race to acquire nuclear weapons could trigger a preemptive war . even if such a war were avoided , the presence of multiple nuclear arsenals would increase the temptation for one or more countries to strike first in a crisis . one risk is that , over the next few years , north korea will come to possess a significant arsenal , posing such a meaningful threat to american might . another is that , north korea ’s neighbors , including south korea and japan , will determine that they , too , need nuclear weapons given the north korean threat and diminished confidence in america ’s reliability and its safeguards to protect them with its nuclear forces . “ take advantage of them or lose them ” has the potential to become a recipe for instability and conflict when capabilities are inadequate to absorb an attack and still mete a path of destructive retaliation essential to effective deterrence .
when it turned to specific trade policies , the nss emphasizes that america will seek to “ break down trade barriers and give americans the opportunities to increase their exports . ” that emphasis on increasing us exports , rather than reducing imports , is a welcome feature . at a 2013 summit meeting at sunnylands retreat in california , us president barack obama demonstrated that chinese president xi jinping is now stealing industrial technology . the chinese embraced the evidence , agreed that theft of industrial technologies was different from other forms of espionage , and asserted that the chinese government would not assist in such theft in the future . given that this is not enough to stop more chinese theft of american civilian and military technologies , the new nss justifiably stresses that america ’s government is taking additional steps to stop it .
many chinese mistakenly concluded that this represented a shift in the balance of global power , and that america , in decline , was in decline . but it is such narratives that can result in conflict . indeed , overconfidence in assessing its strength has led to more assertive chinese foreign-policy behavior in the latter part of 2009 and 2010 . after chinese leaders faced international criticism and worsening ties with the united states , japan , india , and other countries , they chose to return to deng ’s smart-power strategy . china has miscalculated by deviating from a rising power smart strategy and violating deng ’s dictum that china should pursue cautiously and “ skillfully maintaining a low profile . ”
but since then , the country has run into trouble , becoming the recipient of deleveraged imf support from the international monetary fund . while they have committed themselves to an ambitious reform program , argentina ’s economic and financial institutions have also produced several avoidable errors . argentina has plunged back into crisis for the simple reason that not enough has really changed since its latest debacle . though it has committed itself to an ambitious reform program , argentina ’s economic and financial institutions have produced several avoidable mistakes as well . as such , the country ’s economic and financial fundamentals have remained vulnerable both internally and externally .
attempts by economists to forecast the future have had mixed results , at best ; very few foresaw the depth of the great recession , even after it has already begun . during the third quarter of 2008 , fewer than 30 % of forecasters who were contributing to a survey of professional forecasters were predicting gdp decline in the other few months of the year ; indeed , gdp plunged more than 8 % in the fourth quarter of 2008 , one of the largest drop in record numbers . the trouble lies in the fact that many leading indicators used to measure the economy rely on extra-date , incomplete , or flawed data . forecasters , for example , calculate real gdp based on initial monthly forecast of quarterly gdp – a statistic that is often revised its out substantially as more data become available . as a result , forecasts lag behind reality .
the west is fighting a war over principles , war , as us president bill clinton put it , “ finally a moral tragedy . ” this amounts to an important change in nato ’s foreign policy that downgrades the idea of states ’ sovereignty and elevates the status of ethical norms in international relations . nato , for the first time , has intervened in another country ’s internal affairs . fighting in kosovo is the first significant conflict , which , to a lesser extent , involves almost exclusively strategy thinking , territory , population , natural resources , or even ideology . on issue is an effort to stop the epidemic ; bearers of which in 20th century europe accounted for nazism , communism , fascism , and now nationalism .
buildings last several decades , so decisions made today have a long-standing effect on our energy use . policymakers there know that governments have a role to play in mandating regulations to create a level playing field and help build industrial capacity . california ’s latest building and appliance standards is expected to avoid the need for five major coal-fired power plants within the next ten years . far-sighted governments in places as different as germany and singapore are now mandating green buildings . building codes already block against dangers like fire and earthquakes .
nevertheless , the effort to preempt america ’s strategy has clearly failed , as new un sanctions were implemented earlier this month . rather than try to explore the possibilities presented by the brazilian/turkish opening , the america security council hastily pushed up the possibility of more sanctions ( the fourth circle so far ) on iran . this has forced brazil and turkey , both currently non-permanent members of the un security council , to vote against the un sanctions resolution . i fear that this is because the americans have found itself denigrated their primacy in setting global policy on iran . as the deal was intended to avoid a nuclear standoff with iran , why has so much outrage been produced in america and the west ?
there is also a case for reversing the causality . after all , debt-to-gdp ratios tend to rise for countries that are in economic trouble . and it turns out that the growth rate drops in all of these categories as the debt-to-gdp ratio rises , only somewhat more in the final category . alternatively , they opted , with no explanation , for dividing debt-to-gdp ratios into those of the following categories : on average , 30-60 % , on average , and above 90 % . if this is some part of the reason that higher debt-to-gdp ratios are equivalent to lower economic growth , there is less reason to think that countries should avoid higher gdp , because keynesian theory implies that fiscal austerity would undermine rather than boost , economic performance .
this , too , is the reason that the world is far further behind in its “ energy transition ” than most people realize . solar and wind together currently deliver around 1 % of global energy for all , and the international energy agency ( iea ) estimates that this will reach just 4.1 % by 2040 . as a result , policies force people and companies to shift to immature technology will slow growth , exacerbating energy poverty . many of today ’s panicky political statements and climate protests are fueled by the widespread belief that the united nations intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) tells us that we have just 12 years left to save the planet . vaclav smil , who bill gates ’s favorite energy expert , argues that “ claims about a fast-moving transition to a zero-carbon society are plain nonsense , ” adding that “ even a vastly accelerated shift toward renewables would not relegrelegate fossil fuels to minority contributors to global energy supply anytime soon , certainly not by 2050 .
remittances have long spurred inflation in many parts of africa . a ugandan physician working in norway , for instance , cares little about the cost of a beer maker in kampala . he is also willing – and able – to pay more than a local medical care doctor and , of course , a home in uganda . lost remittances , however , cuts both ways . fewer africans working in rich countries will automatically translate into fewer money that is circulating in african countries .
in europe , on the other hand , greater weight is placed on risk avoidance , which undermines private-sector confidence in investing in innovations . there is no way that the eu ’s goal – to preserve human health and the environment – is laudable . yet it is impossible to mitigate all the risk , so that it is not practicable to do so . rather , the precautionary principle is supposed to be used judiciously and rationally , to balancing potential risks with the benefits that innovation and new technologies might offer . this consideration of risk underpins economic interactions , too .
ramallah – palestinians and israelis have different , and possibly contradictory , expectations stemming from the kind of indirect negotiations that the united states has pushed through both sides to begin . just to remind the world of this , as the often indirect talks prepare to get off the ground , israel ’s government ratified a decision to break the ground on 112 housing units in a breakaway southern bethlehem settlement , and the 1600 new settlement units of east jerusalem . israel was among the former parties to welcome the arab league ’s reluctant decision to back palestinian president mahmoud abbas ’s new call for the arabs to give his blessing to the talks . for palestinians , a return to talks , albeit indirect , is focusing on one strategic issue : borders . it is obvious for israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu ’s right-wing government to initiate indirect talks without freezing settlement activities in the west bank and jerusalem is the sort of victory .
for while the moral hazard argument emphasizes the orthodox commandment `` thou does not intervene , '' a crucial feature of globalization hazard is a market failure . consider other devastating events , which are uninsured ( and often uninsurable ) in the private sector . unlike moral hazard , the market failure emphasizes circumstances where government intervention is both socially desirable and economically defensible . in the us , for example , floods , hurricanes , earthquakes , and tornadoes trigger immediate federal assistance . in contrast to moral hazard , the market failure highlights circumstances where government intervention is both socially desirable and economically defensible .
as margaret thatcher explained during her recent parliamentary appearance as british prime minister , who controls money and interest rates controls european politics . handing europe ’s money and governing politics to a cartel administration failed just to spell the end of european democracy ; it also fueled a vicious cycle of authoritarianism and poor economic performance . that leads european leaders to double down on “ authoritarianism ” to stick to their failed policies when recessionary economic forces reinforce it . thus , although european countries remained a democratic political task , eu institutions – where sovereignty over crucial decisions has been transferred – have remained a democracy-free . the more europe ’s establishment chokes off democracy , the less legitimate his political authority becomes .
tokyo – the scale of the earthquake and tsunami that hit japan in march was far greater than even the authorities ’ worst-case scenarios foresaw . nearly six months later , overall damage remains hard to estimate . both moody ’s and the standard & poor ’s now rate japanese treasury bonds at only its fourth-highest level . social unrest and turmoil , as well as radiation leaks from the fukushima nuclear plant , continue . and now the country has absorbed another massive shock : another downgrade of its bond ratings .
furthermore , the iranian regime has forged proxy networks with proxy forces throughout the region . the regime ’s proxy forces include segments of afghanistan ’s shia population , iraqi shia militias , and hezbollah , which controls southern lebanon and has thousands of rockets ready to target israel . even if the accuracy of iranian missile rockets can not be guaranteed , it would still strip many of them of them of defensive systems . israel ’s state-of-the-art iron-dome anti-missile defenses , for example , have been unable even to neutralize all of the crude missiles launched from gaza . syria and iraq have become crucial iran-led links stretching from afghanistan to lebanon .
indeed , rasheed observes , at every american screening of his film , audiences must excuse before beginning to concern with rasheed as a filmmaker rather than a proxy for his country . “ personally , i do not ask anything ; i ’m here to make clear to some confusion by the medium of film . ” as iraqi and other muslim intellectuals in the region often reiterate : “ the books are written in egypt , printed in lebanon , and read in iraq . ” here is the hope that raheed and his colleagues continue to build a distinct iraqi culture , which is vibrant and free ; and here hope that the relationship of us and international audiences to rasheed proceeds from one of his expiation to one of his work . to be sure , iraq , ravaged by war and now shook daily violence , is well known as the most intellectually inclined of arab countries .
complicating matters further for china , the rush to create an open , market-oriented economy has fueled corruption and rent-seeking . and , as recent european post-crisis experience has shown , it is politically very difficult to pursue structural reforms when vested interests have captured the regulatory system . that is why chinese president xi jinping has been engaged in a comprehensive anti-corruption campaign – often misrepresented as an opening of power – since assuming office in 2012 . yet china ’s problems extend beyond structural imbalances to two kinds of countercyclical macroeconomic risks . the first risk stems from business cycles within the advanced , systemically important economies , where interest rates , inflation , and growth rates are rising and are falling together .
what ’s more , “ free trade ” is good for the environment , ” ” to quote one academic study . moreover , business also carries much broader benefits for society . economic globalization has been shown to reduce child mortality and extend life expectancy , owing to rising incomes and better information . in uganda , freer trade over the last 35 years has been shown to lengthen the average lifespan of average lifespan above 2-3 years . in the americas , trade over the last half-century has increased longevity considerably .
inspired by german chancellor angela merkel ’s recent proposal to bind eu finance to the acceptance of migrants , eu member states should also work to create stronger incentives for cooperation . but , as tempting as may be , trying to paper over differences or avoid dissent – much less to destroy the compact at the core of the european project – will not make matters any more straightforward . the only way to get where europe needs going is through a realistic and gradual effort to build unity . the permanent structured defense cooperation – agreed by the european council last december – is a good place to start , with countries increasing their own , say , joint strategic planning on the european level . there is no question that it is harder for the 27 sovereigns to act as one .
to be sure , the media are under assault like never before , and not just from fake news and polarizing presidents . the slaying of nine journalists in kabul on april 30 , in hindu suicide bombings that killed at least 25 people , marked the deadliest day for afghanistan ’s journalists since the taliban ’s fall , while adding to a grim global tally . and yet the fresh glimpses of hope are multiplying . around the world , news journalists and their supporters are fighting back in encouraging ways . more than 1,000 journalists have been murdered worldwide during the past 15 years , and only a handful of perpetrators have been brought to justice .
future historians may well remember this period as humankind the greatest inclusiveness exercise to date . yet , not so long ago , almost no one saw it coming . seven decades ago , the developed world accounted for the majority of the world ’s income , but just 15 % of its population . now , billions of people have been lifted out of poverty and are wealthier , healthier , and have greater opportunities . this unanticipated megatrend has an unforeseen “ corollaries . ”
indeed , it reacted to the polish opposition ’s rise by castigating them as instruments of western power , stalking horses for american or german interests that would , ultimately , exploit ordinary poles . in the 1980 ’s , for example , the soviet leadership warned that any reform it would allow germany to maintain control of poland . simultaneously , poland ’s communist government stressed how incoherent the opposition was , owing to tensions inherent in the marriage of economic liberals , leftist workers , euroskeptic catholics , and nationalists . nurturing suspicions about who backing whom wedges helped drive wedges between different groups . polish foreign minister radosław sikorski ’s more assertive leadership of germany demonstrates how different poland ’s worldview today is .
things are just as bad at the lower house of government , where women account for a mere 13.1 % of representatives in local parliaments , more than 40 % of whom are no female members at all . as the liberal democratic party ’s leader , abe should instruct local party branches to select more female candidates to run in next april ’s local elections . but , at least so far , abe seems to lack the will to do so ( though he might decide to work with local party bosses behind the scenes to bring more women into more women ) . the inter-parliamentary union ranks japan 158th out of 189 countries for meeting its female mps ’ ratio . switzerland is just as bad at the lower house of government , where women account for a mere 13.1 % of representatives in local parliaments , more than 40 % of which have no female members at all .
living long hours is one of our deepest wishes , and medical and economic progress offers the hope that this will be met . but what if our wish is to be given ? the fundamental difficulty of planning for enhanced longevity nowadays is that we have no idea about whether that will really happen . some scientists tell us that average human lifespan could reach 90 years or more by mid-century . what good is living longer if we can not sustain our standard of living ?
to this end , mexican president enrique peña nieto ’s cross-party “ pact for mexico ” could serve as a useful model . promisingly , jokowi has a reputation for independence from partisan and religious politics and a talent for communicating with the people . and , like a political outsider , he has a unique position to direct indonesia directly toward a more prosperous , united future – and to vault himself to the country ’s ’s ’s ’s pantheon pantheon pantheon . so , in introducing a new governance style , exemplified by merit-based cabinet appointments , jokowi must be vigilant against alienating political and business elites , who have long benefited from their tight grip on power . in short , if jokowi is to form the national consensus on the institutions that indonesia needs , he will need to get across that political divide .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present over many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but that does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
currently , the board has no formal status and only a tiny , albeit high-quality , permanent staff hosted by the bank for international settlements in basel . the imf is far too political a body to operate as a systemic-risk watchdog . the next g-20 summit should implement a fundamental reform of the fsb . it should give the fsb , enshrined in an international treaty , law . draghi ’s successor as chair should be a full-time appointee , and the fsb should give powers to direct other standard setters , review implementation by individual countries ’ standards , and publish the results .
the case , too , attracted the attention of the west , too . scores of pop stars , from the pete townshend and paul mccartney to madonna , rallied around the women ’s support . to be sure , a pussy riot might hardly have been classified as the musicians . both feminist chants and primitive chords were secondary to spectacle . in the long run , they also attracted the attention of the west .
in the early 1990 ’s , desperately short of hard currency , nigeria was negotiating contracts that would allow major oil companies to develop new fields and restart their investments prior to sharing profits . now , following firms ’ discoveries of massive reserves , technocrats appointed by yar ’ adua to take charge of national oil policies want nigeria to obtain a bigger slice from the pie . that also implies that ending government-financed operating costs and demanding that national petroleum companies tap capital markets to bridge the shortcoming . indeed , the us department of petroleum assets ( dpr ) , an oil-industry regulator , has decried those claims , vowing to impose hefty fines on the companies that have flout the deadline . moreover , tony chukwueke , the netherlands ’ chief executive , has announced plans to create an african version of petronas , malaysia ’s state-run oil-producing corporation , to transform a sclerotic nigerian national petroleum corporation into a powerful oil-producing firm that can dominate the market in the gulf of guinea and other emerging regions .
moscow – in the wake of the september 11 , 2001 , terror attacks in the united states , the so-called “ war on terror ” was launched . but the us-led military invasions of afghanistan and iraq were not the whole of it ; many countries also ramped up the monitoring and policing of the domestic media and ordinary citizens . freedom of speech and personal privacy , governments argued , would have to be curtailed for the sake of security . the harm has been particularly pronounced in russia , where anti-terror laws have often been used as an instrument of muffle the voices of those offering independent or alternative views , particularly opinion that are critical of president vladimir putin ’s administration . by regarding security as a pretext to flout russia ’s media legislation that explicitly protect journalists from censorship , the authorities have undermined journalism considerably .
populist campaigns in main referenda this year have differed in important respects . but , as edmund burke famously pointed out , “ your representative owes you , not his industry , but our judgment , and betrays , rather than serving you if it sacrifices it to your views . ” for example , colombian opponents of the peace agreement have appealed to universal norms of justice for war crimes committed by the army and farc , not to national particularism , as in the uk and the netherlands . yet all have been motivated , instead , by a desire to scuttle governments and the institutions they oppose . and all have been willing to follow the dictators ’ tradition , resorting to smears , distortions , and fantastical claims .
to the bookish young man , allen , the anxious intellectual who still gets a girl , was a sort of role model . but now that we know the accusations against the comedian and movie director , we are enforced , in scott ’s view , to reappraise the job in this light . this is , at a minimum , a more interesting proposition than the notion that art should be disqualified just because we do n’t like how the artist behaved in the private . there may be something sinister and immoral in movies that we should heed . in other words , bad behavior , or even supposed bad behavior , can taint an artistic works , because the artist can not be insulated from his or her own art .
guatemala ’s former president , otto pérez molina , was forced to resign and was subsequently jailed for corruption . and indonesia ’s ’s ’s ’s special court for corruption crimes has just given way to prison sentences the country ’s former energy and mineral resources minister , jerusalem wacik , for four years in prison . to be sure , journalism has played a larger role as well . and indonesia ’s ’s special court for corruption offenses has just sentenced the country ’s former energy and mineral resources minister , jerusalem , to four years in prison . indonesia ’s ’s home speaker setya novanto was also forced to resign , after caught attempting extorting money from a subsidiary of a mining corporation freeport-mcmoran mining firm .
most economists concur on the ideal mix and sequencing of such maneuvers . but what looks good in theory has proven difficult to implement in practice . for one thing , policymakers are more likely to continue raising their countries ’ dependence on financing , thereby heightening the risk of disorderly market-based adjustment than they are to implement difficult structural reforms and fiscal adjustment . for this reason , many countries have endured painful disruptions that aggravated perhaps avoidable fall in output , incited a surge in unemployment , and eroded , in worst cases , potential growth . a so-called “ beautiful de-leveraging ” entails quite a combination of in-house reforms , funding and judicious use of market-based pricing mechanisms .
stanford – in march , germany ’s tabloid bild published an article , based on a secret document that revealed just how slumping areas of eastern ukraine are “ should be treated like parts of russia ’s sovereign territory . ” the document , obtained by the bild , provides a report from the october meeting of russia ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s “ inter-ministerial commission for providing humanitarian aid to affected areas in southeast asia ’s regions of donetsk and luhansk regions . it describes how the meeting ’s attendees focused not only on humanitarian assistance , but rather serves as a kind of shadow government . working groups cooperating with the russian authorities were established to manage the region ’s finances , economic policies , energy , and transportation infrastructure , and business and business leaders . the revelations cast the ongoing minsk 2 peace negotiations in a new light , one that illuminates the frustrations being expressed in ukraine ’s yet again .
but they will not thank the us , and fail to accommodate the us itself . if britain focuses over the next few years not on how it can help europe recover and prosper , but rather on how it can change its own relations with europe , there should be little doubt about the temper and frame of mind that our current partners bring to that negotiation . when , during a period of “ adjustment ” ” ” ” ” going into the eu , they would say , well , “ well , ’s pity , but now seems to have little to say . for the eu , let us be very clear , about “ renegotiating the terms of eu membership , ” a sanctuary to those who would want to leave but want to persuade people that it is , indeed , just an adjustment in the relationship . there will be the varying degrees of politeness of the eu .
it is also depriving a continent of the talents and contributions needed to drive development and progress . gender parity in stem is achievable , and many african scholars are displaying the world just how it is doing . but they need help , and , indeed , programs that offer scholarships and support are among the best ways to make parity in science . in fact , a 2011 african development bank report finds that “ getting women into science and technology ultimately promises to benefit society as a whole . ” africa ’s stem gender imbalance often compares with its leaky pipe : girls start with interest and aptitude , but drop from disciplines at different points in their learning .
the benefits from ridding the world of national currencies would be enormous . different monies are not only as troubling for tourists who arrive home with pockets full of unspendable foreign coins . global firms waste time and resources on a largely futile effort to hedge currency risk ( benefiting only from middlemen banks ) . and yet farfetched a global reserve currency may sound , recall that back before world war i , ditching the gold standard seemed equally implausible . it is , after all , the current system that is both risky and inefficient .
what they failed to do is engage the international community with a broad-based counter-proposal . their bid – which would have to travel far further than the 2002 arab peace initiative or the portfolio of relevant united nations resolutions – could even incorporate kushner ’s plan as part of a successful transition to a final settlement . but , with the inclusion of a robust economic strategy , this could be transformed into an even auspicious gradualism . after all , economic development would go a long way toward stabilizing palestinian society in preparing for statehood , drastically reinforcing the peace settlement with the odds of long-term success . in the past , transitional agreements amounted to what george orwell called “ a catastrophic gradualism . ”
as a result , the umno finds itself squeezed between the islamic lobby , which presses for greater “ talibanization ” of poland and the rising voices of international critics who ca n’t be ignored , because the party needs both radical supporters and foreign investors to stay in power . the caning of kunka , by contrast , is not an example of political manipulation ; it is perhaps even more worrisome . her phrase was roundly supported by modernist muslim intellectuals who insisted that the penalty is justly applied and can not question , because it has divine penalty . these are not politicians , but former idealists who indulge that their goals of islamicizing the state are realized . the majority are anti-umno , and the support of the pas .
it would probably seek to expand and deepen the infant trans-pacific partnership ( tpp ) , a deal that president barack obama has committed america to the tpp last year . in this scenario , both japan and south korea would need to find some means to bridge a sino-centric asia and the us-south korea pacific . in particular , the us would strongly encourage japan to join the tpp , simply because the americans may want a united asia-pacific economic community , rather than a split between asia and the pacific . because japan would prefer not to be deft against an american for strategic reasons , it might indeed accept america ’s invitation . obviously , america would have to respond to the conclusion of any trilateral asian fta with the us to preserve its own role in global trade and on the supply chains that dominate asian economies .
this is an unfortunate limitation of the ecb ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s design by a group of states that have yet to determine whether they prefer greater unity or greater decentralization . as a result , america ’s fed chairman today commands super-conventional influence . as a premier pan-european union institution , the ecb is uniquely positioned to play a leadership role in europe ’s thinking about fiscal policies , business policies , and demographic transition . but , while it quietly makes a host of important technical contributions to various debates , it is hemmed in politically , and is therefore impossible to reach forcefully beyond its jurisdiction . for the boj , a fundamental problem is its profound institutional fear of rocking the boe politically , and thus its inability to play the role of the chief economist .
those outcomes were foreshadowed by a study last year , by anne case and angus deaton , which shows that life expectancy has been on the decline for large populist segments – including america ’s so-called angry rust belt males . but , with incomes in the bottom 90 % having stagnated for close to a third of a century ( and falling for a substantial proportion ) , us health data for health simply confirmed that things were not going well for very large swaths of the country . but , if it seemed clear that there would be political consequences , their form and timing were far less obvious . and , while america may be at the extremes of this trend , it was little better elsewhere . why was the backlash in the us coming just when the economy seemed on the mend rather than earlier ?
indeed , both israel and the united states are adamant about excluding hamas from the annapolis process unless and until it recognizes israel ’s right to exist in reality , while hamas will not abandon its identity as a resistance movement merely to join negotiations that seem unlikely to satisfy the palestinian people ’s minimal requirements . thus , aside from the annapolis talks , which would appear nowhere , owing to the parties ’ indisputable differences over core issues , any remaining peace efforts are more tactical than strategic . in none of them do these conditions yet exist for the imminent jumping from war to peace ; nor do the parties themselves expect it to happen . it would require bold statesmanship to turn a cease-fire with hamas into a prelude to political talks . for israel , a cease-fire with hamas reflects its unwillingness to become mired in yet another asymmetrical war , like that it fought in lebanon two summers previously , this time in an alleys of gaza ’s refugee camps .
precisely because germany , europe ’s biggest economic power , and france , the intellectual progenitor of european unification , should announce its simultaneous exit from the euro and re-admission to the deutsche mark and the franc . this would trigger the deutsche mark ’s immediate revaluation – and perhaps the franc ’s – relative to the euro . to be sure , france and germany would have to implement interim arrangements to safeguard their banking systems ’ stability . for their part , other eu member countries would have to decide whether to retain the euro in its truncated form or revert to their own national currencies , perhaps pegging them to revived deutsche mark or franc . whatever one thinks of their decision , paying competitiveness to the eurozone ’s weaker economies would significantly improve .
other autocratic rulers in the muslim world are learning from iran ’s example , cracking down hard on intellectuals , journalists , lawyers , women activists , or just one with ideas and wishes to exchange them with others . as a result , islamist revolutionaries in 1979 made the point of preserving zoroastrian fire temples . none of this would have been possible so long as iran ’s antiquated muslim rulers deny academic freedom and free exchange of thought and expression – something sorely missing in today ’s islamic republic . for such muslim rulers , too , there are intellectuals ’ new global terrorists , bombarding their “ intellectualism ” regimes . in its muslim era , iran boasted some of the greatest poets , writers and scientists .
to ensure broad membership and transparency across europe , and within existing existing structures , the leadership group should include a osce representative , the european union , the eurasian economic union , and nato . the leadership group would thus constitute an important public demonstration of governments ’ commitment to resolving and resolving core issues , providing a badly needed vehicle for translating their resolve into action . an eminent persons group ’s initial priority would be to address the current crisis as well . its direct ties to us president barack obama , russian president vladimir putin , and european leaders would differentiate it from existing arrangements . originally , that leadership group could include representatives from a core group of states – such as france , germany , italy , poland , russia , sweden , ukraine , the united kingdom , the us , and the united states – directly empowered and linked to their presidents and prime ministers .
finally , there are two major differences between the 1930 ’s and the current one . first , the industrialized world is more reliant on ( mostly foreign ) oil than it was back then . a other crucial difference is that we know enough not to repeat past errors , particularly trade protectionism – the 1930s . just as a few confidence returns in an eventually re-recapitalized banking system , and long bond yields relative to collapsing inflation , home mortgages , and other borrowing rates , will revive , support for economic activity , and stabilizing real house prices , albeit at a substantially lower level . the extreme run-up in real oil prices was a major cause of the current recession , and , with its reversal , the recovery will be a major factor .
populist movements have emerged , calling for closed borders and new walls , and their rejection of expertise has pushed heldin to a “ gloomy truth ” : that “ we can no longer take it for granted ” that people are trusted to science , facts , and knowledge . to be sure , our expectations will always be in tension with reality . even as we express amazing discoveries , the researchers continue – with billions of people around the world – were lifted out of poverty . but the dark clouds laid down over our horizon have been invented . the terrorists have struck europe with a vengeance ; when millions of refugees fleeing wars and hunger are taxing european institutions , straining social cohesion .
denver – the united states ’ agreement on syria ’s chemical-weapons weapons reached by russia and the united states is important not so much for what it could mean on land that remains to be seen as inspectors begin traveling into syria , and us hopes that chemical-weapons stockpiles start to doom . rather , the accord ’s central significance consists in how it struck everyone : us secretary of state john kerry met with his russian counterpart , sergei lavrov , in geneva last year that most conventional of the diplomatic venues , slashed an agreement on material intense mutual interest . in those days , weeks , and months ahead , arrangements to eliminate syria ’s chemical weapons will , one hopes , trigger a new era in which the us and russia are working together on other pressing global issues as well . an agreement on syria could accomplish something different : the americans might recognize that , amlo and behold , there are other ways to make trouble possible than by plunging bombs . a cooperative us-russia relationship is essential if the international system , now almost dysfunctional , is to work properly in the future .
there is also an advantage to being at the center of the global economy rather than the periphery . to be sure , transnational corporations enjoy the flexibility of transfer pricing and can exert pressure on them at a time when new investment decisions are made , but that their flexibility does not coincide with that of the freedom enjoyed by international portfolio investors . likewise , there is an advantage in being at the center of the global economy rather than the periphery . capital operates in a far better position than a labor market , because capital is more mobile . capital , after all , is in a far better position than a labor market , because capital is more mobile .
i have long defaulted to watching the five-year forward prize for the lack of a more fundamentals-based approach to think about the equilibrium price of oil . with the spot price has now moved ahead of a five-year forward price , one might conclude that a trend is underway . for my part , i ’m somewhat unsure ; but i would n’t be surprised if it happened . as i explained in january 2015 , the brent crude oil spot price is less subject to more speculative fluctuations and is therefore a purer approximation of underlying commercial supply and demand factors . the graph i intended to work before the latest oil-price acceleration in early november shows the five-year forward oil-price picking up following an era of some stability .
the dpj ’s sole reason for being , however , is its anti-ldp posture , whereas the sdp has long opposed the japan-us security treaty , and pnp forcefully opposes the koizumi era ’s privatizations of the koizumi era . this does not amount to a coherent program of government , with prime minister yukio hatoyama ’s administration quickly unveiled the dpj ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s fundamental hollowness . but the biggest problem with hatoyama ’s government is that the dpj took power without a coherent national-security policy . with no one in a position , this should have come as no surprise . the dpj was established in 1998 as a “ jambalaya ” party , consisting of people who had abandoned the ldp , including hatoyama himself and the previous socialist party .
preparing for effective defense of the state is unthinkable without even a greater or lesser degree of participation from every state ’s institution . as a result , many consider defense expenditures a luxury , if not an outright drain on money . time and again , this need to be a reminder and again that defending the state means , first and foremost , defending the human dignity of every us president . the region ’s new republics face no concrete or visible foe nowadays . as a result , many regard defense expenditures as a luxury , if not an outright drain on money .
i can personally vouch for spillover powers benefits from this type of research . more investment could enable the scientists to discover new microbial strains with unique abilities to influence soil and crop health locally , thereby leveraging africa ’s own natural environment to improve agricultural productivity . greater investment in soil research could also have spillover advantages for african economies . with new discoveries leading to patents and licenses , the resulting exploration could spur the emergence of new agribusinesses and farm-related industries . my own work on soil microbes at auburn led to the issuance of three american patents , with a number of agricultural companies pursuing the right to commercialize products from the technology .
iran backed the us during the first gulf war , only to be left out of the madrid peace conference . iran also supported america in its war to depose the taliban in afghanistan . and , with american forces overran saddam hussein ’s military in the spring of 2003 , the encircled iranians proposed a grand bargain that would put all contentious issues on the table , from the nuclear issue to israel , from hezbollah to hamas . in the american-iranian equation it was the american people , not iran , that has conducted rigid ideological diplomacy . the iranians , too , have pledged to halt the israeli-arab peace process .
in may 2002 , it unilaterally abrogated the 1972 anti-ballistic missile treaty . and , more recently , it embarked on a massive edifice of conventional forces and a large-scale modernization of its nuclear arsenal . still , russia , china , and the rest of the world would not allow a return to american hegemony . until recently , putin made this starkly clear by unveiling a number of new , cutting-edge strategic weapons systems , as part of what i would call a strategy of “ preemptive deterrence . ” simultaneously , america has long pursued military supremacy .
it tends to be perceived globally as a supercilious , petulant , and prim . yet , in copenhagen , the structures that were set by the lisbon treaty have failed . beyond the failure in copenhagen , the eu has several other challenges . with just 7 % of the world ’s population ( and rapidly dwindling ) , and composed mostly of post-industrial , low-growth economies , the eu is increasingly seen as marginal . its know-it-all attitude grates almost everywhere .
if a company the size of america ’s retail retailer walmart decides that it would not allow wasteful packaging , its purchasing power would lead to changes in packaging across the entire us retail sector . the same is true of both wages and labor practices , and of course of the workforce . but larger companies also have a bigger capacity to become a force for good , both locally and globally . when the world ’s largest companies and the most well-recognized brands take seriously their responsibility as buyers , sellers , and manufacturers and manufacturers , and solid commitments to act on core values , others tend to follow – or risk being left behind . those that operate are an ethical manner and seeks to improve livelihoods for all those who are attached to a particular manufacture , marketing , and distribution of their products will benefit kudos , more entrepreneurship , or simply not being singled out like a nasty actor .
simply put , western countries ’ current approach does not work . despite the massive increase in aid dollars of aid in recent years , including the billions authorized by former president barack obama , those from the us on the ground still receive largely from the delivery process . this may be seen most clearly in my own country , pakistan . there are roughly 70,000 separate local aid offices , and some 40 transnational ngos engaged in supplying aid to pakistanis . but most decisions about how to spend the money they receive are going outside the country .
in his meeting with ceos of major oil and gas companies , he told them , “ our desire to ensure energy for all does not have to lead to the unrivaled impacts of a spiral of extreme climate change caused by a catastrophic rise in global temperatures , an harsher environment , and increased level of poverty . ” he noted that oil companies are engaged “ in a continuing quest for new fossil-fuel reserves , ” whereas the paris agreement clearly urged keeping most fossil-fuel reserves underground . and he reminded managers that “ civilization requires energy , ” but energy usage must not destroy civilization ! the same kind of corruption of purpose puts the canadian government to guarantee a new pipeline to export output from its pollution-intensive and expensive oil sands to asia , while under-investing in canada ’s huge renewables stock . just as francis has underscored the moral dimension of the problem : francis has underscored the moral dimension of the problem : “ it ’s a moral dimension . ”
kuru was transmitted through the cannibalistic ceremonies , which were commonplace in papua new guinea until the 1950 ’s . similarly , in the united kingdom and elsewhere , healthy cattle had nourished meat and bone foodstuffs made out of infected cattle . the resulting epizootic ( animal disorders ) had affected more than 280,000 cows . and a nearly identical , invariably lethal diseases , kuru , ravaged the aboriginal people in papua new guinea throughout the twentieth century . both the kurdish and scrapie are infectious .
all of this slows social mobility , tears already-stretched safety nets , worsens inequalities , and accentuate genuine worries about the functioning and sustainability of today ’s global economic system . in the next round , as the system becomes slowly implodes , even those with healthy balance sheets would be fundamentally acted , accelerating their disengagement from deleveraging the world economy . if left unattended , italy leads a gradual , and then accelerating , renewed economic system ’s deleveraging , with the top first-round costs – longer term unemployment and growth crises – borne disproportionately by those least able to suffer them . this comprises those reliant on bank credit , as well as the multiple mortgage holders with very high legacy interest rates and balances that transcend their homes ’ market-value . from every angle , extremity of this state of affairs , – in which those with access to credit did not need it – is deeply problematic .
by the early 1990 ’s , it had become increasingly evident that the armed struggle for power in latin american countries was tearing apart . only a handful of groups remained : the shining path in peru , the manuel rodríguez patriotic front in chile , for a brief period of zapatistas in chiapas , mexico , and the farc in colombia . everywhere else , for whatever reason – misguided strategies , tactical blunders , erroneous theories , america ’s interventions , etc. , they have faced only defeat , repression , and barriers to futility . in country after country , the guerillas were defeat , pacified , brought forth into the democratic process , or squandered irrelevant . throughout the hemisphere , democratic transitions exposed guerilla warfare with denial : as che foretold in his la guerra de guerrillas in 1962 , wherever trappings ( or , one might add , the realities ) of the democratic rule prevailed , acquiring arms is pointless .
the only political space left behind for fascism was the petit bourgeoisie : shopkeepers , small businessmen , and low-level civil servants . european fascism collapsed with germany ’s defeat in 1945 , but less aggressive forms were living on elsewhere , like argentina with its peronism . at that time , the working class dependably encouraged center-left parties . nowadays , the social foundation for left-wing politics has vanished . today , the social basis of left-wing politics has vanished .
putting that aside , let us suppose that the decision before tsipras was so crucial and complicated that it merited the exceptional step of the referendum . in that case , the event was supposed to reverse itself , this complexity was the result . it should have been a careful and deliberate sounding of will . instead , greece received a hastily arranged referendum . it was supposed to be organized and conducted with due deference to the stakes involved , with the government ensuring that adequate information had been re-relayed to the greek people .
as the cultural psychologist richard shweder notes , us circumcision has featured in conflict between europeans and middle easterners for centuries . moreover , various communities prioritize human rights differently , differently , over the rights of religious minorities . in the us concerned with circumcision , continuing tensions exist not only between religious freedom and individual ’ physical integrity , but also between parental rights and state authority , multiculturalism and nationalism , and religious and religious and secular moral perspectives . for some , the moral framework on the basis of human rights is enough in itself ; but , for others , like william galston of brookings ’s brookings institution notes how human rights hardly exhausts the empire of moral and spiritual goods . in other words , culture plays an even greater role in shaping human-rights interpretations than many realized , which implies that human-rights practitioners should be wary of passing judgment on any practice with deep cultural or religious roots .
new delhi – there ’s something about the multiple five in sino-indian relations . asia ’s two giants have long defined their relationship in terms of what has been famous pancha sheela pancha : mutual respect for each other ’s territorial integrity and sovereignty ; mutual non-aggression ; mutual non-interference in each other ’s internal matters ; mutual non-interference in each other ’s domestic matters ; equality and mutual exploitation ; and peaceful co-existence ; and peaceful co-existence ; and indeed . now china ’s new leaders have enunciated a new pancha sheela pancha , with chinese president xi jinping offering a “ five-point proposal for sino-indian relations . ” to be sure , india would do well to adopt each of these tenets . updated principles would maintain strategic communication and healthy bilateral relations ; harness one another ’s strengths and expand cooperation in infrastructure , investment , and multiple areas ; deepen cultural ties and friendship ; expand coordination and multilateral affairs to safeguard developing countries with legitimate interests and address global challenges ; and accommodate one another ’s core concerns and reconcile bilateral disagreements amicably .
for 25 years the bank sought to pull governments out of agriculture , leaving impoverished peasants to fend for themselves . this extreme free-market ideology , also called “ structural adjustment , ” took a stand against the practical lessons of china ’s development successes and the rest of asia . the result has been a disaster in africa , with farm-productivity stagnant for decades . the bank also pushed for the privatization of national health systems , water utilities , and power networks , and fundamentally under-financed such critical sectors . practical development strategies recognizes that public investment – in agriculture , health , education , and infrastructure – is necessary complements to private-sector investment .
when america is betraying its own values to avoid challenging russia , it reinforces putin ’s hand considerably . meanwhile , the perception that he has the us on the ropes enables putin to continue silencing his opponents . in the run-up to next year ’s presidential election , putin will not hesitate to take advantage of leeway by foreign leaders to give him . already , he has ensured that opposition leader alexei navalny was convicted of embezzlement , by providing government with a pretext to bar him from the ballot . putin ’s authority may appear unshakeable , but it is actually propped up by propaganda and fear .
with energy prices advancing at the center stage , there is the dangers that already-weak incentives for investment in low-carbon energy will be undermined further . indeed , today , political leaders are openly attacking “ green ” green taxes . across europe , calls for “ affordable energy ” are accelerating the euphemism for increased fossil-fuel subsidies and the rollback of green-energy commitments . just five years ago , britain broke the international mold by enacting legislation mandating an 80 % cut in greenhouse-gas emissions by 2050 . now , eu political leaders are openly attacking “ green ” green taxes .
furthermore , the ccp can no longer count on rising prosperity to sustain public support . at the same time , given the rapid population aging , china ’s demographic dividend has everything but dissipated . kleptocracy of the government ’s officials , their families , and well-connected businessmen have been re-tooling by the chinese state and intent on blocking any reforms that might threaten their privileged status . moreover , the ccp can no longer count on rising prosperity to sustain public support . at the same time , given rapid population aging , china ’s demographic dividend has everything but dissipated .
meanwhile , no other nuclear-armed state has voiced the slightest interest in bilateral or multilateral reduction negotiations until the two major powers , which currently hold about 95 % of the world ’s stockpile , make additional major cuts . other us-russia arms-reduction negotiations ground to a halt long before america ’s presidential election season began . in addition to another reasonably productive nuclear-security summit in seoul in march 2012 , messages about the disarmament front of the last year have surely been dismal . cautious initial moves by the us to amend its nuclear doctrine – toward accepting that a nuclear weapon ’s “ sole purpose ” – are intended to respond to a nuclear threat and to no other kind – went nowhere . negotiations to “ de-warning ” the us – the world ’s 2,000 nuclear weapons , which remains at an absurdly dangerous yet cold war-era readiness – never truly began .
in the process , he has transformed a country in the grip of drug barons and on the verge of becoming a failed state . the professionalism of colombia ’s armed forces , coupled with uribe ’s popularity and a rising economy , delivered – for the first time in more than three decades – normality to colombia ’s cities and , increasingly , to peace and the rule of law to much of its vast jungle regions . indeed , many farc defectors now prefer to fight for their cause at the ballot box under the new left polo alternativo democratico . but the benefit of uribe ’s manifest defeat of the farc extends far beyond colombia . the hostage rescue mission has also forced chávez , still recovering from his failed power-grab referendum of last year ( a moment when chávez , a army high , reportedly denied his demand to fudges the result ) on a defensive . likewise , the hostage rescue mission has forced chávez , still recovering from last year ’s ill-grab referendum ( a moment when chávez , as well as army high , reportedly refused his demand to fug the result ) .
yet the reality remains that a significant share of the world of some 30 million displaced children – 12 million of whom are refugees – will be going through their school-age years without ever set foot in a school . globally , an estimated 75 million children worldwide are currently denied both education and the prospects for future jobs . yet , with a $ 40 billion annual funding gap for primary and secondary education alone , it is also obvious that we need a new approach . globally , around 35 conflict zones , an estimated 75 million children are currently denied both education and the prospect of future employment . in addition to mobilizing the private sources of finance , we must make the already accessible aid ( around $ 13 billion this year ) go a lot further than it has in the past , by creating incentives for developing-country governments to boost their own investments in education .
and , indeed , a substantial share of greece ’s government debt migrated from banks to robust public institutions like the european central bank and the international monetary fund . in this sense , those public institutions already largely bailed out private institutions . but the risks have not been eliminated , because they were not . the margin for error among major banks and other financial institutions has been narrow . because they are still not strongly capitalized , modest losses from outright default and indirect losses by firms with business in greece can threaten to finance bank equity , causing bankers to cut back on lending .
by forecasting medications needs , aggregating orders , and encouraging competition , in combination with intensive advocacy , policymakers and providers have been able to secure market-efficiencies . the resulting economies of scale have allowed suppliers to move from low levels , high-volume solutions to higher-level profit , low-margin profit models . as a result , such efforts have reduced the cost of annual hiv treatments , from more than $ 10,000 per patient in 2001 to less than $ 100 by 2016 . for example , it would have been useful to programs to monitor how large blood-pressure people have been diagnosed and placed on treatments , what the proportion of those on treatments has received blood-vessel control , and what level of treatments is required to reduce premature death by a desired target . finally , the aids effort was able to expand as a result of strong advocacy and collaborations that are reshaping markets for diagnostic and treatments programs .
to those confronting the prospect of death , what matters is access to life-saving drugs , not whether what kills a person is ultimately part of an epidemic . bilateral agreements form the foundation of enhanced ties of friendship between countries . just before last year ’s trade talks in cancun , the u.s. made some concessions , so that it was no longer the sole holdout . the global consensus , reflected in the commission report , calls for yet more exceptions , so that , say , drugs can be made accessible in any case where to do so might save a life . yet , in its bilateral trade treaty , the us demands what is becoming known as “ trips plus , ” which would reinforce intellectual-property rights further , ensuring that countries have only the right to produce inexpensive generic drugs during epidemics and other emergencies .
without this exchange-rate adjustment , faster export growth would almost certainly expose the chinese economy to the risk of economic overheating . as a result , chinese policymakers have been waiting to see whether america ’s recovery is real . if that is right , it is that china ’s exports will actually grow more rapidly . and , if its exports grow more quickly , they may enable the renminbi to rise . meanwhile , chinese investment rates will not change dramatically .
broader national engagement – with ngos , local media , and a broad spectrum of policymakers – is now viewed as an integral part of effective country-level advice and program implementation , as well as being vital to the fund ’s “ supervision ” function under its articles of agreement . a similar pivot is needed if the imf is to deliver better on supra-national issues that are now distancing itself from its own policy agenda . specifically , the fund would need to complement its traditional core constituency of governments and other multilateral institutions ( particularly the world bank ) , with systemically influential sub-national and private-sector counterparts . when i joined the imf in the early 1980s , discussions with nongovernmental counterparts , whether on country or policy work , proved discouraged . to be sure , the situation today , however , is very different .
leila zergui , the un secretary-general ’s special representative for children and armed conflict , recommends designating abductions of schoolchildren by a “ trigger violation ” for the naming of terrorist organizations in the un secretary-general ’s annual report to the security council . and , thanks to the un children ’s fund ( unicef ) , the global coalition to protect education from attack , the world bank ’s world trade coalition for education , and former nigerian finance minister ngozi okonjo-iweala , nigeria has now piloted the concept of safe schools . with the world now behaving like this . thirty countries recently signed up to lucens or to safe school guidelines that instruct their military authorities how to keep schools as instruments of war . this has meant providing funding for school guards , fortifications , and surveillance equipment to reassure parents and pupils that all possible is being done to ensure that their school is safe to attend .
as fiscal austerity implies more recessionary and deflationary pressures in the short run , one would need more monetary stimulus to compensate and more domestic demand growth , – via the delayed path of fiscal austerity – in germany . that makes it all the more reason for greece to be insolvent , and a coercive restructuring of its public-debt stock is unavoidable . but the eurozone ’s two largest policy players – the european central bank and the german government – want no part of that agenda , hoping that a quarter of the country ’s good gdp data generate a trend . it is why spain and ireland are in serious trouble , and why even italy , which is on a relatively sounder fiscal footing , has had flat per capita incomes for a decade and little structural reform , may not be complacent . the rest of the eurozone is in barely better shape than the periphery : bond vigilantes may not have awoke in france ; but economic performance there has been anemic at best driven mostly by a mini ’s housing boom .
europe was thought to have the french political class to be the solution . but europe and the eu could be increasingly catalysts for public resentment . jospin and chirac did not do whatever they could to implement the grand liberalization program ( including energy , financial services , and transportation ) agreed among eu members in lisbon two years ago , implying that the benefits of liberalization are denigrated france at a time when the public perceives the eu as having imposing all sorts of restrictions on the french way business . it is time for france to abandon the indulgence of french exceptionalism ( the l’exception francaise ) and start a serious reforms that are gaining traction among the french electorate . the shame of le pen ’s newfound prominence may yet prove beneficial were it forces the mainstream political establishment to heed popular fears and address the country ’s own problems .
people in places like france and poland , which are worried about national decline , are seeking ways to blame somebody outside the country . an alternative scenario suggests that such fears are emancipated from a real problem . there was certainly much this sort of sentiment in the 1930s , when the populist reaction to the great depression was attributable to the sinister forces of international capital . a modern narrative holds that the world is changing so rapidly that national security , and , indeed , national identity , is under threat . modern economic growth still depends in nearly every advanced industrial country on imported energy ( norway is an exception ) .
calling for national elections , while correct , was political suicide , because it lacked any vision for a possible outcome , and did very little to ensure fatah ’s discipline . abbas ’s son , mazen , runs a grassroots ads advertising agency . his another name , abu mazen , is not a revolutionary name , but rather reflects the practice of naming a person as the father of his eldest son . in his attempt to counter arafat ’s political corruption and micro-managing , abbas lost whatever chance he may have to maintain the loyalty of fatah ’s leadership , newly appointed pa officials , security personnel , and , most important , local militants . an effort during the primaries to elect fatah candidates backfired because of fraud and the losers ’ refusal to honor the results .
new york – for four decades , a ledra street in the heart of nicosia has been a symbol of a divided cyprus . and then , two years ago this april , a wall that split capital in the north and south was opened . then , just two years ago , a wall that split capital in the north and south was opened . now , last week , i visited the ledra street crossing . slowly , the people who did not mingled for 44 years have begun to renege on their ties and rediscover one another .
but if the proposals being discussed in beijing last month are realized , the resulting fta could surpass nafta in its level of integration and importance to the global economy . for example , momentum could expand southward and spur asean , which has bilateral ftas with all three countries , to join with asean . furthermore , establishing a china-japan-south korea fta would most likely trigger a chain-reaction . if that happened , other countries , australia , new zealand , and , most important , india , might seek to jump on the bandwagon . such a turn of events would be equivalent to establishing an east asian free trade area that asean ’s +3 envisioned ten years ago .
compare this with the antibiotic treatment of , say , urogenital infection , which lasts a few weeks at most . as a result , compliance with the tb drug treatments is particularly weak , paving the way for multidrug-resistant ( tb ) tb that can no longer treat conventional therapeutic regimes . while treating mdr-tb remains possible , doing so is arduous , with a view to the prevalence of roughly two years of drug use , who is using drugs that is neither as efficient nor benign as canonical drugs – and at costs that rises , at a tenfold rate of 10 % . some 50 million people are infected with tubercle bacilli . while this extra cost can be borne in the rich world ’s health-care systems , it is excessive to poor countries , implying inadequate , or inadequately , treatment .
for example , a bankruptcy law that privileges derivatives over all others but fails to enable discharge of student debt , regardless of how inadequate education provided , enriches bankers and impoverishes many at the bottom . in a country where money trumps promoting democracy , such laws have been predictably frequent . of course , market forces play a role , too , but markets are shaped by politics ; and in america , with its quasi-corrupt campaign-finance system and its spin doors between government and industry , politics is shaped by money . but rising inequality is not inevitable , either . there are market economies that are doing better , both in terms of gdp growth and of rising living standards for most citizens .
on the other hand , former us secretary of state and democratic presidential candidate hillary clinton and a leading republican contender , donald trump , have opposed social-security reform and medicare . in fact , senator bernie sanders , hillary clinton ’s democratic rival , is proposing to expand us programs ’ unfunded liabilities . a progressive redistributive agenda might continue to advance trump , or a fiscally conservative entitlement-reform agenda might now fail . with so few us presidential candidates recognize the link between reforming social security and medicare and ensuring broadly shared prosperity , america faces serious risks . either way , america would face growth-constraining tax increases and limits on the contributions that public investment can make to the country in the future .
confronted with an election outcome as a result of whether to rejoin the social democrats or the haider freedom party , they produced a faustian pact with haider . there may be good political reasons why another alliance with the social-democrats was n’t appealing to schuessel ’s party ( to one , he would not have been chancellor in such a coalition ) . but , in every respect , the political discourse of all democratic parties ostracized such racist groups and parties : british conservatives never before entered into an alliance with the british national front ; the same goes for france , where french conservatives expelled their own party ’s local leaders , which fashioned municipal alliances with le pen ’s incumbents . this is exactly what the austrian conservative people ’s party under wolfgang schuessel , has not done . the austrians are right that haider-like parties exist in many european countries – in britain , france , even in certain scandinavian countries .
the congressional budget office projects that even with no additional legislation , the debt-to-gdp ratio will rise to 91.2 % by 2027 . with a direct effect on the $ 1.5 trillion deficit implied by the fiscal reform , the direct effect would be to rise to 97 % . a military emergency or an economic slump would call for additional debt-financed spending or tax hikes . but even a massive spending program like the $ 900 % of america ’s recovery and the reinvestment act of 2009 would add just an additional three percentage points to the debt-to-gdp ratio . it is hard to believe that a tax-to-gdp ratio of 97 % would make it harder to achieve than a debt-to-gdp ratio of 92 % .
and us president barack obama congratulated ouattara , saying that the world would “ hold those who acts to thwart a democratic process and the will of voters in charge of their actions accountable to them . ” the economic community of west african states ( ecowas ) strongly condemned any attempt to usurp the popular will of côte d’ivoire ’s people and appeals to all the parties involved in order to accept the results declared by the electoral commission . ecowas chair and nigerian president goodluck jonathan encouraged all parties to “ respect and fully implement ” the verdict of the ivorian people , as declared by an independent electoral commission . the african union , too , responded to a dangerous situation . its peace and security council meet , citing the au ’s categorical rejection of any attempt to create a fait accompli that undermines the electoral process .
seoul – has the world entered a new era of turmoil ? indeed , the bitter legacy of invasions of iraq and afghanistan , followed by the 2008 financial crisis , has made the united states not only reluctant to use its military might , even as “ red lines ” have been crossed , but also seems unwilling to bear any serious burden of maintaining its global leadership positions . china ’s leaders have shown their lack of interest in active global leadership by openly rejecting calls to become a “ responsible stakeholder ” in the international political and economic system . to be sure , america ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s vacillating policy toward syria has probably suggests so . but , if america is no longer willing to lead ?
brazil has been attempting to become energy self-sufficient in a manner similar to that of other countries ’ modern efforts . our research shows that industrial policies have been successful in promoting brazil ’s competitive bioethanol industry . ethanol accounts for more than 50 % of the country ’s current light-car demand , and petrobras – brazil ’s energy giant and one of the largest firms in latin america – expects that share to rise to more than 80 % by 2020 . a massive stimulus package prompted by the spike in oil prices around the world , has given brazil a completely new industry . but it would not work without the crucial role played by competition .
“ a child ’s creativeness and the ability to transcend reality is blunted , ” “ states one ilo report , ” and its whole mental world is impoverished . indian fathers still sometimes repay their debts by committing their children to peddling labor . pakistani parents occasionally maim their children to make them beguiling beggars . the ilo contends that children are suffering tremendously when they are being forced to perform as “ little adults . ” the sad fact is that families are often the last to protest exploitation of their children .
but , despite its wealth and military might , america ’s capacity to project political power – for good or ill – will decline in future years , for at least five reasons : america ’s budget is in crisis . owing to bush ’s tax cuts and military expenditures , which have amounted to $ 500 billion a year during his term , america will need to raise taxes and rein in budget spending , whether or not bush ’s re-election . the annual us military budget – which has boosted by a little more than $ 150 billion since bush took office – will need to be cut in the coming years to get the budget going again ; america is borrowing massively from abroad . asia ’s central banks have bought hundreds of billions of dollars in america ’s treasury bills . japan alone possesses the foreign-exchange reserves of around $ 750 billion , a great deal of that in america ’s us treasury bills .
to be sure , there have long been policy efforts to undermine or even replace the us dollar as the dominant global currency . in 2001 , then-malaysian prime minister mahathir mohamad attempted to introduce a “ golden dinar ” as an answer to an us-based currency system . russian theoreticians of “ eurasia ” often tout traditional russian iconography ’s use of a fine metal . the most seductive alternative appears to have been the gold standard . so far , while no globally devastating monetary attack has occurred outside the empire of theaters .
my gain for rightly adopting this bearish view is thus € 1.65 meters – the € 9.1 m i received by selling off bonds when i borrowed them on january 1 , minus the € 7.2 m that i was forced to pay in exchange for repurchases them on june 30 , minus the € 250,000 in interest that i had to pay goldman sachs for a six-month loan . to be sure , a single short seller can not “ “ “ make ” ” ” price of an asset ( unless she is , whose famous bet against the british pound in 1992 made him the billionaire and forced britain out of the european exchange-rate mechanism ) . but if a run on speculators decides ( rightly or wrongly ) that a government ’s debt is overpriced , they can force down its price , thereby forcing down its yield ( the interest rate on which the government has to pay ) . to be sure , voilà , a successful “ short ” shop . if an attack persists , it is possible for speculators to default on their sovereign debt unless they can find ways to finance their borrowing more cheaply .
to the extent that tariffs reduce china ’s exports , the government and the central bank can offset the economic impact by stimulating domestic demand . the chinese economic slowdown this year was the result almost entirely of deliberate decisions to deleverage the banking system , cut local governments ’ borrowing , reduce over-investment in infrastructure , and curb booming house prices through monetary policy . all of these austerity policies , by contrast , can easily be relaxed or reversed . doubts about the chinese government ’s willingness to shift economic policy from tightening to stimulus has , in recent weeks , been dispelled . clear statements by policymakers , all the way xi has indicated that he will not permit any further weakening of the economy next year , even though this means accepting bigger budget deficits or the easing of bank deleveraging and monetary tightening .
this was the age of villages blacksmith , weaver , potter , and cobbler . cotton was one of the first industries to witness this shift . africa ’s slaves were used to grow cotton in the south united states , which was then shipped to the english mills . the finished cloth was then exported . in the 1800 ’s , shipping technology improved sufficiently to allow the emergence of global supply chains .
is it to be “ always represented ” by the lone political party ? it need not be “ over-represented . ” so obscurantism merely creates a culture of stultifying uniformity . like the grassroots blade runner , culture knows how and in which direction we search for light . i do n’t know what “ the progressive direction of advanced culture ” is , but advanced culture has played no part in the ccp-inspired “ wipe of its poisonous weeds campaign , ” the “ anti-rightist movement , ” or “ eliminate demons and evil campaigns . ”
in 2006 , president olusegun obasanjo , then nigeria ’s president , was among the first to make this case . uganda ’s president yoweri museveni last year followed suit when he signed the anti-gay bill act in 2014 . other leaders , from the gambia ’s president yoya jammeh to zimbabwe ’s robert mugabe to zimbabwe ’s robert mugabe , talked into the same vein . these officially attitudes caused significant suffering for africa ’s gay males and lesbians . indeed , the price of homophobia for gay people in many african countries has been painfully evident : legal sanctions , social ostracism , and mob justice .
perhaps more important , they have an inadequate voice at the world bank , the international monetary fund , and the adb . still , china ’s share , at around 30 % , appears to be the largest among the top 57 participating countries , which could effectively give it a near-veto over the aiib ’s decisions . that underscores a key concern among development economists and observers of international relations as the aiib ’s birth approaches . will it turn to be the brics ’ brics countries , brazil , and china , or will it pursue a multilateral agenda in areas like the world bank and regional development banks such as the asian development bank ( adb ) and the africa development bank ( afdb ) ? china ’s ’s ’s explanation for its push to establish the aiib is that developing countries have inadequate access to their infrastructure capital .
at the international monetary fund ’s annual meeting in october , the fund ’s chief economist , olivier blanchard , fueled the controversy by pointing out that , more recently , governments have tended to underestimate the adverse growth consequences of fiscal consolidation . they typically assumed that to cut public spending by one dollar would reduce gdp by just 50 cents on the short run ; according to blanchard , the true outcome in current conditions is a decline , from $ 0.90-1.70 . that is a huge gap , but one also a perplexing finding : how can there be so much uncertainty ? contrary to what such forecasting disparities may suggest , economists actually do know a lot about the consequences of fiscal policy , at least much more than they used to know . until the 1980 ’s , it was routinely presumed that the so-called “ “ multiplier ” – the ratio of gdp change to changes in government spending – was stable and larger than one .
yet , as the public becomes educated about the specific threats that nuclear weapons continue to pose to towns in which they live , that stance will become increasingly difficult to sustain . at the same time , people worldwide must stop treating one another as untrustworthy foes . for far too long , urban residents have been used as pawns toward a global nuclear chessboard , with little concern for the full implications of play for the game . military planners , who view the use of nuclear weapons have probably given scant thought to those living in cities on their target lists . making matters worse , their actual use has been established .
and the massive prosperity gap between the “ old ” and the “ new ” eu member states continues to establish voting patterns . furthermore , right-wing populist parties have taken advantage of growing public frustration with the eu itself . such groups have been able to capitalize on the economic and social pain felt in many eu member states , particularly given that larger numbers of europeans are unconvinced that the worst is over . many european citizens oppose the eu ’s vision of a “ more europe , ” ” the eu ’s traditionalists ’ mantra in the two main party families , the european people ’s party ( epp ) , and the social democrats ( s & d ) . the influence of widening disparities between the eu ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s affluent “ northern ” and the stumbling “ south , ” with france at the center ( but headed south ) , has also been apparent .
not gold powder , as the lesser moguls might offer , or even purest cocaine . no , that is far rarer and true : it is pulverized white rhino of the horn of the country . today , the international community for national preservation estimates that just 25,000 still roam the continent , mostly in south africa , with a handful in namibia and kenya . a half-century ago , white rhinos was abounded in africa . today , the international union for biodiversity conservation estimates that just 25,000 still roam the continent , mostly in south africa , with a handful in namibia and kenya , respectively .
dubai – the global financial crisis has taught the world how thoroughly interdependent our economies have become . if we are to prevent isis from teaching us just this lesson the hard way , we must acknowledge that we can not quell the fires of fanaticism by acting alone . in today ’s ’s ’s ’s crisis of extremism , we need to recognize that we are simply interdependent for our security , as is evident in our current struggle to defeat isis . the world must unite behind a holistic drive to discredit an ideology that gives extremists their power , and to restore hope and dignity to those whom it would be recruiting . isis surely can – and will – be defeated militarily by an international coalition that is now assembling , and with whom the uae actively supports .
earlier this year ’s nobel prize in economic sciences had went to george akerlof of the university of california at berkeley , michael spence of stanford university , and myself for our work on `` information asymmetry . '' for two hundred years , economists used simple economic models that assumed that information was perfect – that is , that all participants had an equal , transparent knowledge about the relevant determinants . they knew that information was not perfect , but he hoped that a world with more moderate information imperfections would sound like a world with perfect information . so what is the work about , and why was the us committing to it ? we showed that this notion was ill-founded : even small information imperfections could have profound effects on how the economy behaved .
the bankers ’ pursuit of self-interest ( greed ) did not result in the well-being of society ; it did not even serve their shareholders and bondholders well . it surely did not serve the homeowners who are losing out to their homes , workers who lose out , pensioners who saw their retirement funds vanish , or taxpayers who paid hundreds of billions to bail out the banks . we are accustomed to thinking about the government transfer money from the well off to the poor . under the menace of the whole system ’s collapse , the safety net intended to help hapless individuals meet life exigencies – then to investment banks , insurance firms , even car-loan companies , auto companies , even car-loan companies . never has so much cash been diverted from so many to so few .
importantly , the constitution requires a super-majority – rather than , say , an easily irreversible “ non-bloc ” resolution that ukraine ’s parliament adopted in may 2010 – to join a military alliance . that approach would align with the principle that us president barack obama highlighted when announcing the latest round of sanctions against russia last month that ukraine must be allowed to “ “ “ “ chart its own path . ” above all , it would help ukraine ’s people , split between inherently antagonistic identities – to live together peacefully . the practical result – ukraine ’s remaining unhinged in its military and security terms – would reflect ukraine ’s will as a whole . to be sure , ukraine can change for the future , with its cultural , demographic , and economic shift producing the needed consensus to abandon neutrality .
in institutional terms , a long-term reform should aim to shift to an income-based old-age pension system like that in chile opposition to the status quo run , pay-as-you-go pension pension systems . political elites -- at home and from abroad -- will need to shone focused public attention on the looming fiscal crisis . a public should understand the crucial distinction between a one-time transfer to old workers at the beginning of a market-oriented reform process and a long run on pension policies . in any viable long-run arrangement , the level of benefits relative to wages should be reduced , retirement ages should be raised to international norms , and eligibility for special pensions ( arising from businesses in particular ) should be tightened to cover only the truly needs . in the coming years , this most important fiscal task facing east european and nis governments will be to shrink the size of social spending to a more reasonable part of gdp .
but that may well follow the second stage , in which tight labor markets , populist nationalism , and industrial concentration begin to offset the one-time structural effect of new technologies being widely adopted . and , in the third stage , a potential onset of higher inflation may catch up with policymakers and investors alike , producing excessive reactions that make the problem worse . focusing too much on cyclical , rather than structural , structural factors could create serious risks for future economic wellbeing and financial stability . as with most paradigm shifts , there can be little certainty regarding the timing of such a scenario . but , one way or another , policymakers in advanced economies must recognize that their inflation outlook is subject to a broader set of dynamic opportunities than has assumed so far .
the same goes for implementation of the 2015 paris climate agreement – which will require ample investment in energy efficiency and renewable-energy sources to keep global temperatures from rising more than 2º fahrenheit – off the ground . a fifth step should be integrating women fully and equally into every part of the un agenda , rather than simply in discrete areas pertaining to “ women ’s ’s ” issues . the groups would operate under a common mandate across all un agencies and headed by un operations directors in each country . the same goes for implementing the 2015 paris climate agreement – which will require ample investment in energy efficiency and renewable-energy sources to keep global temperatures from rising more than 2º celsius – on this scale . a fifth step should be to integrate women fully and equally across every part of the un ’s agenda , rather than simply in discrete areas pertaining to “ women ’s ” issues .
for india , the cost adds up to nearly $ 11 trillion of exchange-rate demand . with an estimated 268 million people in extreme poverty in the most recent surveys since 2011 , india is home to the world ’s largest , near-high-income country on the planet . every dollar spent – 38 cents annually – per day below the extreme poverty line – makes every dollar spent . in the drc , 77 % of the population is extraordinarily poor and drop a dollar off the poverty line , on average . the most expensive countries on which to end extreme poverty would be the democratic republic of congo and nigeria .
indeed , when oda is not dictated by geopolitics , it can actually have a strongly positive effect on long-term growth , essentially because it supports investment in infrastructure and human development . finally , institutional reform encompasses more than create markets and guaranteeing property rights . pro-cyclical fiscal adjustment tends to spur a short-term approach to economic policy that limits long-term investment in infrastructure and human capital , thus constraining growth . more fiscal space can be created through improved governance and a more expansionary tax base , and for the poorest countries , achieving additional steady official development assistance ( oda ) channeled through national budgets . finally , institutional reform encompasses more than create markets and guaranteeing property rights .
the cocaine used to make america a problem , to the point that the united states has begun a major campaign against sellers and consumers of crack cocaine in inner towns , drug traffickers , and contractors in andes . but now the demand for cocaine in much of the world is stable or is falling . what europe ’s leaders need is a serious about europe ’s cocaine problem . coca cultivation has been a mere quarter over the last five years , and the seizures of cocaine have nearly doubled . the “ white lady ” is seducing an ever-rising number of europeans , and remaining in a state of denial will only make matters worse .
berkeley – it has now been one such year since donald trump was elected president of the united states , and america ’s democratic institutions are obviously under stress . just 20 % of americans now trust the federal government to “ “ do the right thing , ” while trust in the us congress has dipped below 9 % . according to some pessimists , there has been no american constitution to address the challenges of a country so sharply divided by income , race , and partisanship . among congressional republicans , particularly the “ take-no-prisoners ” election extremism , undermines the federal government ’s ’s action capacity , which is precisely what many on the far right want . yet state and local governments still trust a majority of voters ; they do power under the tenth amendment of america ’s constitution to strengthen democratic institutions .
the european parliament has steadily denounced belarus as europe ’s last dictatorship , yet eu member governments continue to business as usual with aleksander lukashenka , a country of wayward and near lunatic despot . for example , for more than a decade , germany ’s ’s ’s ’s police forces , the customs service , and even the bundeswehr have been ordering uniforms out of the state-owned works town of dante , named after the father of the red terror and the soviet kgb ’s founder , feliks dzherzinsky . by treating lukashenka as favored business partner simultaneously , the eu tries to isolate him as an international pariah , european hypocrisy stands naked . similar examples of such indifferent cynicism abound . this is particularly true when the opportunity to save lukashenka or to get their money .
nonetheless , the purpose of political leadership was sorely lacking . bond yields in southern europe were soaring , creating a pervasive sense of apprehension and fear of cloaked governments in european capitals . finally , decisive action was taken in december . there would be a “ fiscal treaty , ” which would reinforce the stability and growth pact and , importantly , entail automatic sanctions to ensure that eurozone members abide by those rules . at the same time , the european central bank has unleashed its € 1 trillion ( $ 1.3 trillion ) in long-range refinancing operation that pulls the european banking system back from the brink .
but , especially in brazil , stock exchanges have limits . in the absence of trustworthy courts , they are unable to sue to enforce their rules . their just recourse is to push recalcitrant firms off the exchanges . an analysis by ronald gilson , henry hansmann , and mariana pargendler of brazil ’s e-commerce novo mercado – the stock exchange ’s special voluntary listing segment , which provides strong protections for investors in newly listed firms , supports this view . the novo mercado has dealt with this problem by subjecting disputes to its newly-listed firms to arbitration .
and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but that does not augur all-out war . new york – january is traditionally a time for evaluating previous year ’s developments to anticipate what the new one has in store . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . unfortunately , however , perhaps at a turning point for even the more good a decade , the data that emerged in late last month do not paint a promising picture of the global economy ’s short-term prospects .
and the translation of comprehensive universities into specialized institutes for science and technology in the soviet union and the communist china have done nothing to avert economic disaster in those economies . of course , a simultaneous shift in a few countries toward stem-focused secondary and higher education – with large concomitant productivity gains – could lessen the competitiveness of an economy that has not done so . but , again , this contradicts traditional trade dynamics , in which a single country ’s success does not imply hardship for the rest . in fact , the proliferation of high-specialized european universities has failed to buttress economic growth or employment . yet , once again , this scenario is highly unlikely , at least for the foreseeable future .
first , all were precipitated by a profound crisis of a social-welfare state : falling output , rising unemployment , large budget deficits , inflation and devaluation . without a severe crisis , no major reform was likely to succeed . second , a change of government through elections spurred reform and gave them democratic legitimacy . reform did not demand a state of emergency , as is so often argued . third , a reform requires a strong leader .
nonetheless , rather than deploy their abundant cash in new investments to expand capacity and tap new markets – something that they have so far been very hesitant since the global financial crisis erupted – many firms have so far preferred ( or pressured by activist investors ) to give it back a company to shareholders . moreover , because companies have vastly improved their operating efficiency and lengthened maturities on their indebtedness , they need far less precautionary savings than they have had in the past . yet one looks at it , the corporate sector in advanced economies generally , and the american enterprise sector is just as strong now as it had in many years . indeed , with profitability at or near record levels , the corporate sector ’s cash holdings in the united states have piled one-quarter after a quarter , reaching all-time lows – and earning very little at today ’s near-zero interest rates . non-financial firms have achieved a tenacity and agility mix that contrasts sharply with prevailing conditions for some households and governments worldwide that have faced adequately a leveraged legacy .
from an american perspective , indonesia is an attractive alternative to russia , which recently vied with venezuela for “ america ’s leadership in the decline ” of “ america ’s cheering section . ” the same is true of turkey , with its robust banking sector , a thriving domestic market , growing prominence to the middle east , and energy politics , nato membership , a european union-wide membership bid , and ties to its ethnic cousins across central asia . indonesia , moreover , has demonstrated resilience not only economically , but also as a nation . strictly out of the standpoint of economic potential and fundamentals , the case is vastly stronger for south korea , a sophisticated economic force , whose primary responsibility is the risk that the failed regime of its ill-fated twin into the north will crumble and inundate it with starving refugees . perhaps the most compelling case of all is that of indonesia , the world of ’s largest muslim state , with a rapidly expanding middle class , relatively stable and economically , an economy that was the star performer in asia despite a global recession .
no state that aspires to win support or cooperate with others can afford to be seen to be comfortable with an unambiguous double standard . and , worst of all , one should be perceived as soft on those who – like egypt ’s current military rulers – commit mass-atrocity crimes against their own citizens . a good example is the allegation that the eu may prefer to protect the ” principle is inherently flawed , because major powers will always be immune from intervention , not only because five can exercise a security council veto , but also because of its inherent military power . but that ignores a principle that no military intervention will ever be legitimate unless it satisfies , among other criteria , an test of diminishing , not augmenting , human suffering . no state that aspires to win support or cooperate any other can afford to be comfortable with an unambiguous double standard .
the ssez ’s recent denial that any company operating there has fined america for itself reinforces the suspicions that hun sen ’s government will continue to turn a blind eye . the last thing that cambodia also needs is also risks economic reprisal in order to help chinese firms dovesting from american tariffs . already , the country ’s deteriorating record on democracy and human rights is threatening its tariff-free access to the european union market , provided through the bloc ’s “ anything but an arms ” trading regime . yet that seems to be precisely what hun sen ’s government plans to do . that might be good for a corrupted few , but it is bad for cambodia .
to break free from stagnation , we need renewed policy momentum . the global economy risks becoming stuck in “ “ new mediocre ” – a protracted period of slow growth and feeble job creation . if the measures agreed by the leaders assembled at the g20 in november are carried out , they will lift world gdp to just over 2 % by 2018 – the equivalent of adding $ 2 trillion in global income . and some critical economies are still battling deflation . more than 200 million people are unemployed , compared to 8 % in 2015 .
so , too , should it undergo further simultaneous transformation , and eu enlargement ? what sort of relations should nato possess its partners ? the albright report attempts to address these questions in a balanced way . he endorses policies that capture precisely the link between the “ out of area operations ” and the members ’ commitment to their mutual self-defense under article 5 of the north atlantic treaty . it further rightly suggests that nato ’s strategic and military objectives could be made jointly with russia through greater stability , mutual transparency , unpredictability , and arms reduction verified through the non-proliferation and arms-control agreements .
one is north korea , whose recent behavior has been smart and delusional . japan officially endorses the objective of a non-nuclear world , but it relies on america to have extended nuclear deterrence and wishes to avoid being subjected to nuclear blackmail by north korea ( or china ) . the japanese fear that the credibility of america ’s expanded deterrence will be weakened if america decreases its nuclear forces in parity with china . the north ’s koreans violated their agreements , knowing that what china , a country with the most potential leverage , is most concerned with the regime ’s collapse in north korea and thus the threat of chaos on its borders . it is a mistake , nonetheless , to believe that an extended deterrence will depend on parity in the numbers of nuclear-weapons states .
berkeley – back in the late 1990s , in america , at least two schools of thought pushed for more financial deregulation – that is , for repealing the regulatory separation of investment banking from commercial banking , relaxing banks ’ capital requirements , and encouraging a more aggressive creation and use of derivatives . the first school of thought , broadly that of the united states ’ republican party , had been that financial regulation was bad , because every change of regulation was bad . if deregulation looked such a bad idea now , why was n’t that then afterwards ? · in the middle-class global economy , at least , that was then much more than 60 years since financial disruption had more than a small effect on overall levels of output and employment . the second , broadly that of the us democratic party , was somewhat more complicated and based on four observations :
concentrating on egalitarianism would appeals to liberals ; of course , it should not alienate moderate voters , but it should not alienate either , because more equality would be good for the economy . and it might even persuade some angry , impoverished trump supporters to recognize that his own pseudo-populism is not about helping the far-left behind folks in rust belt towns and rural hinterlands . it is grotesque that so many people who stand to benefit from such “ socialist ” policies are still persuaded to vote against them , because they are supposedly “ un-american . ” it is about giving even larger sums to the very few . the democrats ’ core message for the next two years should be that , in a plutocracy , everyone else loses .
but neither wants to be the currency of “ chicken , ” because doing so would undermine their domestic political standing and empower the other side . still , without an agreement by a year of ending , a clash becomes likely . similarly , trump thought that he could bully iran by abandoning the joint comprehensive plan of action and imposing severe sanctions . but iranians responded by escalating their regional provocations , knowing full well that trump could not afford the full-scale war and the oil-price spike that would have originated . as the game changer , a bad outcome becomes more likely .
but the scaf now appears to have realized that in a leaderless state , no civilian politician can grant immunity without becoming vulnerable to attacks by rivals . meanwhile , political polarization , sectarian incidents , a weak economy , and the absence of security has dimmed egypt ’s prospects from a successful , democratic transition . moreover , scaf has carefully weighed policymakers and dissected their relative weaknesses , curtailed capacity , the notorious opportunism , and widespread inconsistency . as a result , there is a growing conviction within scaf that its three “ minimum ” demands have become both pointless and insufficiently exposed . in the last two months , the scaf ’s behavior toward civilian politicians , civil-society actors , and , more recently , coptic communities has apparently reflected a change of attitude : “ you need immunity , guidance , and protection from us – not the us . ”
paying an interest on them requires sending more goods and services to the rest of the world than americans receives from the rest of the world . that requires a weaker dollar to make us goods more attractive to foreign buyers , and making foreign goods worth more expensive to american consumers . by the end of the decade , the american tax will have to pay the amount equivalent to more than a third of the revenue from personal-income taxes simply to pay interest on the national debt . higher debt-service costs require higher tax rates , which , in turn , weaken incentives and depress economic growth . with more than half of that debt , foreign investors now hold more than they do .
if ahmadinejad prevails , the dilemma for the west will be that it has to deal with a regime discredited by election fraud , but still indispensable to resolving almost all of the middle east ’s major problems : iran ’s own nuclear program and regional conflicts in afghanistan , pakistan , lebanon , and palestine . iran is also a key player in cooling hotspots in the caucasus and central asia . indeed , aside from issues like domestic policy and the issue of internal liberty , the choice among major candidates hinges on whether iran should seek greater international integration . ahmadinejad stands for a policy of confrontation and partial isolation ; moussavi stands for more openness . a opening policy would thus quickly place the regime ’s very existence at risk .
but where that counts – in terms of overall productivity and economic growth – the story is one of substantial disappointment . perhaps the most visible gains came from the external front , too . if ever there was a country destined to be the poster child of the new orthodoxy in economic development , it was mexico . by the same token , exports had sunk from 5 % to 30 % of gdp , and its gdp share of inward foreign direct investment had tripled . since 1996 , per capita economic growth has averaged well under 1.5 % , and total factor productivity has stagnated or declined .
after all , many asian countries have achieved impressive export-led growth under the current system . for example , a more fundamental problem is the ever-evolving nature of global trade , with existing agreements having only a limited capacity for adjustment . services such as education , banking , accounting , and insurance account for an ever larger share of global output ( now about two-thirds ) ; further expansion requires far-reaching change in existing agreements . and bilateral or regional trade deals may chip away at some of the barriers in the current global system . even if asia succeeded by relentlessly exporting manufactures relentlessly , today ’s poorest countries , mainly in africa , might realistically export only agriculture and textiles .
much of the time , pain occurs after simple nerve endings detect tissue injury in a variety of ways , and generate signals that travel to the spinal cord and from there to the brain . for many years , scientists thought that these signals were heading along a few well-defined routes to achieve a relay station in the brain called the thalamus . from there , researchers believed , signals went along with the features of the cerebral cortex that manage body consciousness , and , somehow , the cortex turned them into a conscious experience . a contemporary non-medical writer described the qualities of intense pain as included in extreme unpleasantness ; the ability to annihilate complicated thoughts and other sensations ; the capacity to destroy language ; and a compelling resistance to objectification . she reminds physicians that , for individuals suffering intense pain , what dominates awareness above all else is powerful negative emotion .
when capital flight forced françois mitterrand to abort his program in 1983 , france ’s socialists executed an abrupt volte-face , and embraced world financial liberalization . the first such stop came with the european union at the end of the 1980 ’s , where two french socialists – jacques delors and pascal lamy ( the european commission ’s president and assistant , respectively – ran the process . according to harvard business school ’s rawi abdelal , this was the key event that set in motion developments that ultimately enshrine freedom of capital movements as the worldwide norm . in the end , the imf joined the bandwagon under michel camdessus , another businessmen who served as governor of the bank of france under mitterrand . then it was the turn of the economic cooperation and development organization ( oecd ) .
men at the barricades were persuaded to leave his stronghold ; insurrectionary leaders were either detained or escaped to spain . the following day , de gaulle ’s face was drawn , but was resolute and full of energy . the defeat of the military revolt was the first time asserted by the republican people ’s paris authority over pieds noirs who helped bring down a fourth republic . de gaulle ’s firmness and rhetoric – aided , to say , the fumbling – the insurgents ’ fumbling – – established the state ’s primacy . within 15 minutes of the general ’s face fading from the way , an estimated 40 military units in algeria declared their loyalty .
had the israelis really wanted a resurgence of islamist violence in gaza , a potential collapse of peaceful politics on the west bank , and now the right of a recognized palestinian state to take israel to the international criminal tribunal for war crimes ? if not , why are they so ham-fisted ? israel , for its part , seems , is making the same mistake it has made for others . palestine ’s diplomatic promotion offered to it a lifeline . it has repeatedly proved that military intimidation by civilians does not violate morale and turn them against their own leaders , however terrible the regime .
the un will play a central role in helping to drive the reconstruction of a work government in that country and in coordinating humanitarian assistance for the afghan people ’s services . fourth , the war in afghanistan has not only proceeded quickly ; it has ushered in a diplomatic breakthrough as well . while these seem to be the “ grab-bag ” of achievements , they point to a single message : the world community is finding new ways to cooperate , even against a backdrop of terrorism and the world recession . the un ’s growing role in this process gives the seal of international law and diplomacy over the global struggle against terrorism , and helps to reassure many countries that this is a genuine international effort , not just america itself acting on its own . the growing role of international institutions under the un umbrella provides more confidence that disputes can be managed peacefully and even sensibly with significant inputs of scientific expertise as to the climate-change treaty .
here , brazil is no different from the united kingdom , spain , or uruguay . except for barely practical political rhetoric from leaders like hugo chávez in venezuela and evo morales in bolivia , there is nothing new on offer at the world heritage sites that differ very much from what is typically called neo-liberalism or the washington consensus . indeed , brazil ’s upcoming elections this year are like an “ soccer match ” among the big teams in which singapore ’s supporters and one candidate solely distinguishes them from their shirts ’ colors , because the strongest teams accept the rules of the game , and even tactics , are similar . in other words , there is no longer any contest between different projects in any modern country , no left-right confrontation ( with their nuances ) that may arouse voters ’ emotions . according to the socialist sociologist francisco de oliveira , the coldness of the electoral landscape is closely correlated with one reality : the “ irrelevance ” of politics due to its “ financiarisation . ”
violence against journalists has historically been an issue that has left behind headlines . but the most important change must come from within the media industry itself . because journalists ’ safety directly affects news organizations ’ employees , freelancers , and audiences , such organizations should report on the subject . if reporters use their own platforms to inform the world of the dangers facing them and their colleagues , the world will need to listen . with attacks on journalists growing stronger , the old attitude – of prideful silence – no longer makes sense .
rome – in 2010 , global leaders scored the millennium development goal ( mdg ) of reducing the share of the world ’s poor to half of its 1990 levels – five years ahead of schedule . but rising unemployment and falling incomes underscore the enduring threat of extreme poverty worldwide . despite their flaws , income measures are useful in gaining a better understanding of the scale of poverty and vulnerability worldwide . after all , poverty is not the unchanging attribute of a fixed group ; it is a condition that puts vulnerable people at risk . but the world bank ’s annual poverty line of $ 1.25 a day ( in purchasing-power-parity terms ) , which is used to measure progress toward the mdgs ’ poverty-reduction goal , is not the only relevant threshold .
while the eurozone ’s tail risks are lower , its fundamental problems remain unresolved : low potential growth ; persistently high unemployment ; increasingly high and rising public-debt levels ; competitiveness loss and slowing unit labor costs ( which a robust euro does not help ) ; and exceptionally tight credit rationing , owing to banks ’ ongoing deleveraging . and the structural reforms that these economies need to boost their potential growth will be implemented too slowly . the 2014 outlook is dampened by the longer-term constraints , as is the case . indeed , there is a looming risk of secular stagnation in many advanced economies , owing to the adverse drivers of productivity growth of years of under-investment in human and physical capital . and an abundance of policies and regulatory uncertainties will keep private-sector investment spending in check .
yes , cyprus needs € 17 billion to remain in the eurozone , whereas its annual gdp is just € 23 billion . but , realizing that value is just one part of the eu ’s ’s dismal overall energy picture – something that the ongoing greek debt negotiations have so far failed . more immediately , to get gas to market in europe and elsewhere , the gas liquefaction plant costing around € 10 billion has to be built , and israeli investors have already expressed an interest . but these figures have to be put in the eu ’s gloomy overall energy picture – something that the ongoing debt negotiations have failed . the sheer size of cyprus ’s likely energy riches and the financing that it needs to develop , dwarfs the country ’s current financial woes .
greece ’s largest private media , controlled by the country ’s oligarchs , are content to oblige . thus , most tv channels speak of the bailout deal simply like tsipras ’s do : like the destructive cause of austerity , the result of neoliberal dogma . new democracy and pasok do much the same , attack on the eu , “ speculators ” and hedge funds – anyone who might be able to turn the public ’s attention out of its self-interest – to the crisis themselves . as a result , for too many people in greece , the austerity reflected germany ’s deranged obsession with the discipline , not their country ’s profligacy . syriza is hardly alone in blaming the eu for its woes .
but america ’s dwindling leverage can not match the influence of a region ’s “ axis of evil . ” after all , it was minuscule qatar brokered by lebanon ’s domestic settlement , egypt that has mediated a gaza cease-fire and turkey that is facilitating the israeli-syrian talks . lebanon has been too vulnerable to us pressure from syria and iran , neither of which wants to see their local clients ease with israelis on their “ “ “ lebanese front ” burden , ” owing to their own grievances . nor is hezbollah keen to see israel cut off sheba farms on lebanon ’s border undermine its claim to the formidable , independent military power it has built with iranian and syrian help . israel ’s ’s ’s shift in policy toward syria , and that of french president nicolas sarkozy , has been a potent message to america that it should not miss the lebanese train as much as it does .
finally , clarida is spearheading an internal strategy review to determine whether the fed should start creating below-target core inflation during recessions and slow recoveries by allowing above-target inflation during the expansionary period . and , though the review is still in its early phase , the fed has already seemed to have embraced the idea that it would be allowed to keep inflation above 2 % , without immediately triggering a tightening policy . taken together , these factors are suggesting that the fed could remain in pause mode for the remainder of 2019 2019 . but , with clarida ’s contribution , the fed will be more inclined to focus on actual inflationary trends , rather than on the more official rate of unemployment and its implications beneath traditional models . moreover , while fed staff members typically believe that america ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s rate of potential growth is very low ( around 1.75-2 % ) , clarida like powell ’s , appears to be open to believe that trump ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s tax cuts and deregulatory policies , combined with the next wave of technocratic innovation , will enable somewhat to boost inflationary growth .
it is governments – and therefore taxpayers and bondholders – that finance nuclear plants should be used to boost it . moreover , the supposed “ cost savings accounts ” of nuclear power never include the price tag for direct and indirect governmental subsidies ; the decommissioning of aging facilities ; and for emergency cleaning and reclamation of nongovernmental communities when disasters strike – all , again – at taxpayers ’ expense . at fukushima , for example , the bill will include the costs of heroic efforts by hundreds of workers to cool down the plant ’s reactors ; protracted loss of economic output in the 20-kilometer exclusion zone ( estimated at $ 128.5 billion by roubini global economics ) ; decommissioning and clean-up costs ; and the cost of replacing the 4.7 gigawatts of generating capacity . at the very top of this , the health-care costs implied by exposure to radioactivity are possible . all of these hidden costs make nuclear energy a higher price than shifting prices for renewable energies and improved energy efficiency .
but a clear set of rules governing engagement is a necessary one . otherwise , they would be stifling discussion . doing so would run counter to what the us universities stand for . as a pragmatic matter , it would also backfire , by giving trump camp yet another opportunity to demonize the “ liberal elite . ” the most important principle to uphold is the distinction between hearing someone and honoring someone .
markets are celebrating , as they did after each of the other ’s four “ european crisis ” summits in recent years – until they come to understand that fundamental problems have yet to be addressed . new york – like an amalgamation of death row – has received yet another last-minute stay of execution . there has been good news in this summit : european leaders have finally come to understand that the bootstrap operations by which europe lends money to swiss banks , and to irish sovereigns to save the banks will not work . in doing so , they will survive a little longer . likewise , they now recognize that eu bailout loans , which purchase new lender seniority over other creditors , worsen private investors ’ position , who will simply demand even higher interest rates .
munich – the german constitutional court has delivered its long-awaited decision on the european central bank ’s “ outright monetary transactions ” program . but , rather than issuing a formal ruling that would constrain the bundesbank and the german parliament as it might have done , a court has asked the european court of justice for its views . that court has now declared that it has fully endorses the claimants ’ arguments , and that the omt program is indeed violate eu primary law . since its launch in 2012 , the omt program has allowed the ecb to buy , if necessary , unlimited quantities of troubled eurozone countries ’ government bonds – where the affected countries subscribe to the rules of europe ’s rescue fund , the european stability mechanism . indeed , thousands of germans have appealed to the ecb ’s constitutional court against the omt program , arguing that it violates article 123 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union , which bars monetary financing of eurozone governments and imposes substantial risks on german citizens as taxpayer .
and the capital gains tax has fallen to just over 50 % since the 1980s . when upstream investment is basic research , spillover effects across industries and sectors sometimes yield large social rewards . but other cases might require creating alternative incentives . to build support for public investment in higher-risk innovations , perhaps taxpayers should have received a more direct return , by injecting profits into the fund for public innovation to finance the next wave of technology . for example , some of the government ’s profits in tesla ’s investments could have recovered through stock ( or of royalties ) and used to cover the losses from its investment in solyndra .
complicating matters further , the european commission and the council of europe will each have a new president and negotiating teams of their own countries , and the european parliament seated a new generation of politicians who have not engaged in past decades in eu compromises and reforms . on the other hand , many will be elected in the political landscape of anger , diminished trust , and intra-eu fragmentation . if the ecb ’s next leaders do not meet them , the euro alone will be at risk . still , there is a broad consensus that europe will need more than monetary policy to ensure continued growth and stability . clearly , with below-bound interest rates , more monetary/fiscal-policy coordination is a must .
in fact , these regimes began to wield social media for their own ends . all told , the accusations that russia covertly used social media to influence electoral outcomes in ukraine , france , germany , and , most famously , in the united states . facebook estimated that russian content on its network , including labor and paid ads , had reached 126 million americans , some 40 % of all nation ’s population . in the event , most social media-enabled popular uprisings failed for want of effective leadership , and traditional political and military organizations retained the upper hand . we should recall earlier accusations by russia of the role of the west in fomenting the “ color revolutions ” in ukraine and georgia .
but he is not immune to miscalculation . in 2005 , mahmoud ahmadinejad relied on khamenei ’s financial and political backing to win the presidency . today , though , khamenei is profoundly regretful about this choice . ahmadinejad disobeys his executive orders , seeks to discredit him with the public by challenging his authority , and undermines key institutions , including the judiciary and the parliament . it is an open secret in iranian political circles that khamenei , too , has chided permitting basij militia volunteers to attack the british embassy last november .
and it is not just the developing and emerging countries that need to rethink their attitude toward the rest of the world . but it is not at all clear whether , say , china ’s leaders will recognize this and act in their country ’s own long-term self interests . similar questions apply to india and brazil . the point is not , to say the least , to a unified china . to be sure , the u.s. must do just as well .
but on the level of individual societies , i believe that inequality tends to loom as serious , political-economic problem . nor should we worry a great deal that some people are much wealthier than others . but i do not see what the alternative political-economy arrangements might make individuals ’ relative wealth closely in line with their relative moral or other merit . some people work harder , applying their intelligence more skillfully , or simply married enough to be in the right place at the right time . the problems that can be tackled are those with both poverty and social insurance — of providing a safety net — not of inequality .
more broadly , though , her point is that we need the fsoc to get its job – to look for and assess every sort of potential systemic risk – at all . that needs to be done as a technical matter , rather than as a part of a political process . to be sure , not everyone at a sec is as sensible as stein would be . there is also some friction among different regulators in the u.s. , and no doubt we need more coordination across national boundaries – including with europe . but the real danger is that powerful lobbies , working through members of congress , are pushing back hard against the fsoc and its mandate .
indeed , on learning for its victory , iohannis immediately paid a visit to king michael i ( the hohenzollern prince until he renounced his title in 2011 ) . may also have benefited , to some extent , from an association in voters ’ minds with german hohenzollern kings , who had ruled romania ’s anxieties and with dedication for more than 80 years . when the results were reported , their euphoria became overwhelming . in bucharest ’s university square , the celebration recalled the power of 1989 ; it was the awakened electorate ’s sound , mindful of its prior mistakes and readiness for cleaner beginning . the final factor driving iohannis ’s victory has been the younger generation , in which connectivity with the western world has imbued an eagerness to see genuine democratic progress in romania .
for most , the curriculum is largely obsolete , and skewed toward rote learning of theory at the expense of basic analytical and critical-thinking skills . unless china reforms its ossified system , the country will be unable to produce enough highly trained talent to compete globally ’s best and brightest . as a result , the chinese graduate from colleges and universities has taught relatively little about the outside world in fields like anthropocene , sociology , international relations , comparative literature , and history . while tens of millions of chinese young people display an impressive innate ability , the country ’s higher-education system does an abysmal job cultivating their talents . education in the social sciences and humanities has been particularly deficient , owing to inadequate investment in those disciplines and overweening policy control of curricula .
at the same time , imports inspire a more competitive domestic business environment . finally , global economic conditions will compel even more restructuring upon japan . japan has committed to further liberalization of its markets , under the wto . whereas exports expand delivered growth in this century , import substitution and inward foreign direct investment ( fdi ) will cause japan to increase productivity in the coming years . such reforms will create new markets , spur competition , attract foreign investment and technology transfers , and upgrade consumer interests .
both countries have combined a substantial increase in secular educational attainment with rapid job creation in manufacturing employment ; stressed rural development and labor-intensive export industries ; and pursued rapid , egalitarian development . egalitarian development of that sort is the only viable answer to the problems of moslem global ’s moslem states . i believe that the west can learn big lessons from what to do by studying the policies pursued in the world ’s just two mid-development moslem states , tunisia and indonesia , because each successfully avoided becoming prey to islamic fundamentalism . tunisia ’s achievement is noteworthy given its violence-prone algeria ’s enduring proximity . but it provides no short-term answer to terrorism for a few reasons : it does not lend an ideology compelling enough to compete against fundamentalism that captured at least two generations in the moslem world .
in the united states , the so-called core cpi ( the consumer price index ) – which excludes food and energy – went down just when it was supposedly falling . for an american economy widely presumed to be near hallowed ground with full employment , this comes just like an ugly awakening – particularly to the us federal reserve – that has pulled out all the stops to get inflation back to its 2 % target . halfway around the world , a similar story is constantly playing out in japan . in the three months ending in may , the core cpi was essentially unchanged , holding , at just 1.7 percentage points above its year-earlier level . for the united states , the so-called core cpi ( the consumer price index ) – which excludes food and energy sources – went down just when it was supposedly heading .
nonetheless , following the industrial revolution in northwestern europe , the colonization of much of asia , and the opium wars in china , their relative positions have switched . our assumptions about asia ’s relative prosperity and the west should be similarly rethought . the nobel laureate economist amartya sen traces the origins of india ’s democracy dialogue to the third-century bbc buddhist emperor ashoka . he also contrasts the religious tolerance preached and practiced by muslim imperial emperor akbar ahmed in 1590 ’s with the inquisition , which persecuted heresy in europe simultaneously . as recently as 200 years ago , asia accounted for 60 % of global gdp .
the core protective regulatory institutions for outside finance , the laws of federal securities , did not fall into place until the 1930s – a few decades after american financial markets grew to fund america ’s economic rise . britain and japan appeared to have followed the same sequence : finance first , protective institutions later on . japan had no business law until the complex business finance that began to develop in the late nineteenth century . yet that sequence is the opposite of what one might have expected : only after financial markets had developed had those with stakes in them the press for improved regulations intended to protect investors . thus , in britain , japan , and america , something more foundational had to be in place before financial markets started operating .
from 1998 to 2007 , greece ’s annual per capita gdp growth averaged 3.8 % , the second fastest in western europe , behind only ireland . in spain and ireland , though , the gap reflected a construction boom ; european accession suddenly gave people access to much cheaper mortgages . but , by 2007 , greece had been spending more than 14 % of gdp in excess of what it produced ; the largest such gap in western europe – more than twice that of spain , and 55 % larger than ireland ’s . in greece , by contrast , the gap was mostly fiscal and used for consumption , not investment . again , insufficient spending was never an issue ; it was a necessity .
well-functioning democracies often delegate rule-making powers to quasi-independent bodies when issues are on the hands of them are technical , and do not elicit distributional concerns ; when log-rolling would otherwise result in sub-optimal outcomes for all ; or when policies are subject to myopia , heavy discounting of future costs . even then , central banks typically remain accountable to policymakers , and must provide accounting when the targets are missed . true , the quality of democratic governance may sometimes be augmented by curtailing the discretion of elected representatives . it may be up to elected politicians to identify the inflation target , but the means deployed to achieve that target are left to the central bank ’s technocrats . independent central banks provide an important illustration of this .
that means a big responsibility of fiscal authorities : target a structural fiscal surplus , which is high enough to generate the space needed for a real exchange-rate depreciation . maintaining a competitive currency requires raising domestic saving relative to investment , or decreasing national expenditure relative to income . alternatively , the gains from competitiveness would be offset by rising inflation . first , it is important to recognize that a strong and overly volatile currency is not just the central bank ’s problem of fixing . while the central bank bears a good portion of the responsibility , it needs support from other parts of the government , most of it from the finance ministry .
jolie refused to treat her mastectomy as scary or tragic – or just as making her “ less a woman ’s ” ” ” ” ” ” or at any point in either . one can therefore be reasonably certain , however , that jolie ’s decision will change the roles available to her as an actress . there ’s something about a narrative – a sex symbol that has been offered her fetishized breasts for possessions of her children , with her husband staying on the sidelines – that is profoundly reassuring women in western culture . as enthusiastically as the global mass media have gotten her choice , she is nonetheless extremely difficult in westerners to be portrayed as maternal – much less physically “ flawed ” or impaired – or also as “ impaired ” sex . but jolie ’s true importance is its profound context : a surge in females and sex , in very different settings throughout the world , insisting on narrating their own meanings for events involving their bodies – events that , like breast cancer – were once shrouded in shame , silence , fear , or blame .
private-sector balance-sheet problems would weaken the financial sector and the resulting pressure on the public budget would compel austerity , thereby further damaging consumer demand – and causing further damage to firms ’ balance sheets . major net central-bank reserves could help ease the process . it is this danger that sets the practical and political limits of a flexible exchange rate . private-sector balance-sheet problems would further weaken the financial sector , with the resulting pressure on the public deficit , thereby further damaging consumer demand – and causing further damage to firms ’ balance sheets . to prevent such a crisis , therefore , the exchange rate has to be managed – and in ways that depend on a country ’s specific circumstances .
but the cancellation of barr ’s show was , of course , not a legal choice . indeed , the limits of free speech are not simply legal . people tend to be getting fired , for trading reasons , as long as something that they have alleged were regarded as offensive by a huge number of individuals . moreover , entertainment companies , or mass media , are consistently sensitive to public opinion . indeed , free speech is more robust in american law than elsewhere in the world .
daunting trends , such as the demographic youth “ bulge , ” combined with high youth unemployment rates -- reaching nearly 40 % in some places -- highlight potentially explosive societal conditions . in fact , not one has a muslim majority , let alone an elected country . challenging the arab world , he lagging behind other regions in key ways , including individual freedom and female empowerment , as well as economic and social development . disturbingly , this phenomenon has been noted within the muslim world as well . in the summer of 2002 , a team of arab scholars produced arab human development a report , written on behalf of the un development program and the arab fund for economic and social development .
yet , due to the global balance of power , this was more symbolic than a reflection of their true influence . then came the end of the cold war , when all europeans adopted a staunch transatlantic orientation . in terms of security , europe remained dependent . institutionally , this division of labor seemed to be manifested in nato and the eu . but on the economic and technological fronts , europeans regained their sovereignty .
for the occasion , tudor wore yarmulke and gave a speech about his “ philo-semitism ” for more than two hours . he had soon sponsored the unveiling of the bust of the assassinated israeli assassinated israeli premier yitzak rabin at brasov in transylvania . he announced that he had been employing dially of eyal arad , a well-known israeli spin-doctor , to run his presidential campaign . “ jews ” were not his enemies any more . but tudor was not stopping with his prolix apologies .
and independent investigative journalists in africa have frequently exposed high-level corruption , abuse of power , and shady business deals . but those with power know how to fight back – and they are not pulling their punches . as a result , a free press is being undermined , repressed , and even dismantled . in kenya , for example , a leading local newspaper reported that philip kinisu , a former chairman of the ethics and anti-corruption commission , received suspect payments from the national youth service . further wide investigations have exposed more corrupt deals , spewing kenyans to take to the streets in protest .
china ’s economy has succeeded through trial and error ; the lessons of its current stress test should be viewed as part of that process , tapping into the next stage of economic reform . one key lesson is that chinese stock markets remain structurally biased toward state-owned ownership and guidance , even as the country builds a more entrepreneurial economy . this is fundamentally problematic , because it is the market ( not the state ) that will identify and support unicorns . nonetheless , china has already begun to build a more innovative and internet-driven manufacturing sector , and the state can still play a role in fostering innovation . but , as the government determines how to offload its massive stock holdings in an orderly way , it must ensure that such efforts are financed by equity , not leverage , thereby transforming the market balance and resilience .
his abrupt departure as a result of illness might produce a political vacuum that might become conducive to a single form of power grab or alternative , like a military coup . here , the lack of free media is particularly alarming , and it does not bode well for free and fair elections . rigid adherence to constitutional provisions in any of these eventuality is imperative . what is crucial is that the opposition can freely air its message and target prospective voters , a point not lost on the chávez regime ’s regime , as it seeks to curtail further the opposition ’s ability to reach out to voters . the recent globovision attacks , venezuela , ’s only survivor , stands out in this regard .
his fundamental strategy was the norm : bet against any central bank that tries to defend inconsistent macroeconomic policies . during the 1990 ’s , looking big , private investors lumbering central banks as cash cows , long on money , and short on financial acumen . george soros once made one billion dollars out of the bank of england in only a single hour . what a difference a decade makes , in his view , a billion dollars spent on the bank of england . his essential strategy was the norm : bet against any central bank that tries to defend inconsistent macroeconomic policies .
yet , contrary to expectations , growth in household consumption has remained lackluster , and companies have not ramped up investment . in the first two quarters of this year , america ’s gdp barely surpassed the level it attained at the end of last year , a substantial increase driven by goods produced but not yet sold . the prevailing explanation – a brutally cold winter – wears so thinly enough to ensure that everyone should be seeing it . but there is another problem : in their homes and workplaces , people ’s sense of excitement about the future is absent , notwithstanding all the gee-whiz gadgetry that now surround them . the prevailing explanation – that of a brutally cold winter – lies so thinly with the fact that everyone should be seen through it .
to succeed , over € 30 billion , or 1 % of gdp , will need to invest annually in network infrastructure , renewable-energy generations , combined heat and power systems , and storage technologies in the coming decades . moreover , bringing germany into digital infrastructure – particularly its own broadband networks – up to international standards will require significant investment , which an improved regulatory framework could help stimulate . while some of this money will come from public budgets , the vast majority will have to be lent through the private sector . likewise , regulatory reform is needed to strengthen support for startup companies – an area where germany is notoriously weak – reflected in the hardship that such firms face in acquiring venture capital . nowhere is the need to overcome financing bottlenecks made more apparent than with germany ’s ’s ’s energiewende ( energy transition ) .
beijing – is china poised to surpass the united states to become the world ’s largest economy ? the international monetary fund recently predicted that the size of china ’s economy would overreplace that of america in terms of purchasing power parity ( ppp ) by 2016 . and , even more radically , arvind subramanian of the peterson institute for international economics argues that , in ppp terms , china did indeed overtake america ’s in ppp terms , as it did in 2010 . but a recent co-authored study by robert mundell , an economist at the university of california , observed that global economic leadership would pass to china in 2014 . purchasing power parity measures a country ’s income , using a set of international prices that has been applied to all of its economies .
in other words , a revolution in saudi arabia , or a blockade of the strait of hormuz , could yet inflict damage on america and its allies . but one should not trump to conclusions , either . as i argue in my book the future of power , global interdependence involves both sensitivities and vulnerability . america may become less vulnerable in the long run when it imports less energy , but its oil is a fungible commodity , and america ’s economy finds it remaining sensitive to the shocks from abrupt changes in world prices . a balance of energy imports and exports is anything but a approximation of independence .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but that does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . the amazon and indonesian rainforests are springing up , and climate catastrophes like typhoons , tornadoes and floods are intensifying , with dire consequences for entire populations . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere elsewhere in the world .
before its onset , america ’s debt-ridden consumers were the engine of global growth . that downturn is complicated : the great recession , combined with a financial crisis . the bottom may be near , possibly by the end of the year . but that does not mean that the global economy is set for a robust recovery any time soon . hitting the bottom is no reason to abandon the strong action taken to revive the global economy .
in seizing the opportunities of globalization , companies have too often ignored the developed-global workers they leave behind , while subjecting developing-country workers to exceptional deprivation . tackling the world ’s environmental and business challenges , and improving the lot of those left behind , will require ensuring public action like that i have oversaw in my own roles in the world bank , the united nations , and the bank of england . but it will also demand the participation of entrepreneurship . in my own career as an economist , i have seen firsthand that business-climate competition in a globalizing world can do a lot more to fight poverty , hunger , and disease than the government-funded programs themselves do . but when that competition is not conducted responsibly , the reverse could happen – and , in many cases , it has .
and because it would reverse the 2016 referendum result , such a step would necessitate a new plebiscite pitching remains against no deal . but , whatever happens , the pragmatic center is being squeezed from british politics . with luck , johnson ’s scorched-earth tactics will spur his incoherent opponents to overcoming their discrepancies in order to stop a substantive brexit . nonetheless , it would be an incendiary move . for one thing , many leavers would view it as an anti-democratic coup .
in order to support such efforts , we urge un secretary-general antónio guterres to appoint a special representative to the ocean , tasked with improving ocean governance and ensuring that sdg 14 ’s full potential is realized . to help these efforts , we are urging un secretary-general antónio guterres to appoint a special representative to the ocean , tasked with improving ocean governance and ensuring that sdg 14 ’s full potential is realized . to do the right , such a representative must get sufficient resources to do the job . the ocean has suffered through decades of abuse and neglect . it has been treated as a free-for-all flyers and race-to-the-bottom buffet .
everyday salaries , traditionally paid in cash , lost the millions ’ jobs because replacement currency did not produce them in adequate numbers . the bjp government ’s largest neglect of farming were the country ’s small and marginal farmers , as well as landless farm laborers . when crops fail , a large number of farmers and agricultural workers laid low by the crushing burden of debt ( often afflicted by usurious rates of rural moneylenders ) commit suicide in the same way that more than 11,400 did in 2016 . that is the final year , for which official farmer suicides are available , but media reports suggest that the numbers have been growing since then . these groups dealt a body blow two years ago by modi ’s thoughtless and foolhardy demonetization scheme , which abruptly withdrew 86 % of india ’s currency from overnight circulation .
with six billion humans and counting – and our individual consumption growing – we face huge challenges in using our natural resources sustainably . and there is one clear measure of how we perform at this task : the rates of extinction . bird extinctions are our best window onto humanity ’s massive and irreversible environmental implications . for every one part of the world ’s roughly 10,000 bird species , there can be about 10 or perhaps even 100 other unknown animal species , plant or funes . for that , some colleagues and i have calculated the rate at which bird species became extinct in the recent past , and a rate at which they would likely become extinct in the future .
with systems growing in size and complexity , the traditional computer architecture seems to have reached its limits , because the decline in power consumption soars and transmission lag among the components becomes increasingly burdensome . cognitive systems are inspired by the human brain , organ that still has much to teach us . indeed , when it comes to energy efficiency – measured in terms of the number of computations per unit of power on the “ unstructured ” datasets – the human brain performs roughly 10,000 times as much as the best man-made machines . and , finally , perhaps most important , they enable their users to conceive patterns and opportunities that would become impossible to discover through traditional means . today , when computers consume roughly 10 % of the world ’s electricity output , according to mark mills , the ceo of digital power group .
munich – discussions are now underway to establish a common deposit insurance scheme for eurozone banks . proponents of the scheme , with the european commission and the ecb ( ecb ) taking the lead , point out that deposit insurance would avert the danger of running a run on banks in times of crisis . while that argument has been true , critics emphasize the disparity in risk , owing to the high proportion of bad loans on banks ’ balance sheets in some countries . while the share of bad loans to banks in stable eurozone countries stands at just 2 % , the highest-ever published international monetary fund statistics – from last april – indicate a share of 11 % for ireland , 16 % for italy , 40 % for cyprus , and 46 % for greece . to address this risk disparity , and to move ahead with the imf , will have to clean up balance sheets before contemplating another move .
that sets a dangerous precedent , for it creates a powerful incentive – the winner takes all , the loser goes to jail – for ruthlessness . it ’s hard to predict how tymoshenko ’s ’s case will play out – whether yanukovych will succumb to pressure from the european union and the united states either to loosen it – or to forces that are seeking to exclude her from politics forever . until recently , ukraine ’s leaders have been accustomed to more efficient means than prison for dealing with deceptive opponents . in 2000 , for example , the journalist rusadze gongadze was kidnapped and beheaded after online publishing news on high-level government corruption . she is in detention because she had lost that power .
doubtless , there is a strong case to be made for a universal , impartial application of values . after all , it is here that the questions of universal principles of justice and human rights are entering this debate . after all , it is here that the questions of universal principles of justice and human rights are entering this debate . for an innovation is precisely what creates wealth and employment , despite – or , rather , the result of -- competition from poor countries . and increased wealth in rich countries helps the poor by increasing demand for their goods .
in some important respects , japan has profited enormously under america ’s own wing ; and the postwar constitution that is not only a pacifist but more democratic than anything the country had in the past ; enshrining individual rights , fuller suffrage , and freedom of expression . like italy , japan was on the frontlines in the cold war . but the post-1945 democracy that americans still took pride in installing a post-1945 installing was also hindered by american interference . that is why abe was the first foreign politician , after british prime minister theresa may , to rush to congratulate trump in person in may 2017 . constitutionally unable to participate in us military adventures , except as a highly paid manufactured goods producer during america ’s various asian conflicts , japan , rather like the countries in western europe , was able to concentrate on rebuilding its industrial power .
aside from a small set of good stories in the business press , it is hard to argue that anybody who read or listened to english-language media coverage might have learned anything interesting or pertinent to questions about whose economic policies were arguably better for america . the economics profession bears a share of the blame for this . but a large part of the problem arises from an ill-briefed , undereducated , and uncurious press corps . nobel prizes winners like edward prescott have had no business speaking of the benefits of tax cuts without pointing out that a tax-cut tax cut accompanied by spending increases is not a tax cut at all , but rather a future tax shift – and a tax shift that raises risk and discourages accumulation . all of this economic legerdemain has magnified television , print , and internet journalists .
fayyad is the first palestinian leader who did not emerge from the fatah movement , and may therefore understand what other palestinian leaders have failed to define , mired as in a toxic combination of self-righteous ideology and violence . it might simply be that the palestinians are on the brink of a new chapter in their history , and in israel ’s history and the whole region , as much as that as it does . palestinian nationalism is deeply ingrained in the consciousness of a majority of palestinians – yet , starting in 1948 , when the united nations proposed partitioning of british palestine into two states , jewish and arab – it failed to move from an ideology toward reality . so far , they have failed abysmally in institutional nation-building , a necessary requirement for any successful national movement . neither violence nor terrorism nor reliance on outside powers ( the un , the arab league , the soviet union , the us , europe ) has succeeded in delivering statehood , which a people can achieve only through their own agency – what zionist ideology calls “ auto-emancipation . ”
any diplomatic effort to denuclearize north korea must also alleviate china ’s geostrategic fears about the korean peninsula ’s future . in 1592 , the japanese general toyotomi hideyotomi hideyoshi invaded the koreans kingdom to establish a beachhead for invading china . in response , china , under the ming dynasty , was fighting alongside korea against japan ’s military . in response , china , under the ming dynasty , fought alongside korea against japan ’s military . in 1592 , the japanese general toyotomi hideyoshi invaded the koreans kingdom to establish a beachhead for invading china .
but it is an admittedly slant that merits attention because the problem can not be solved with conventional political responses . simultaneously , embracing new technologies is regarded as indispensable for a country struggling with geopolitical and competitive success . the “ formal ” narrative about technology treats accelerating change as inevitable . according to acronymically named institutions , think tanks , task forces , et hoc genus omne , automation , and artificial intelligence ( ai ) will soon exclude or alter a huge but unforeseeable workforce of human jobs today . thus , disruptions to existing patterns of work should be welcomed and “ mitigated , ” by adapting education and social-security systems to the needs of an automation-driven job market .
developing science and technological capacity is less difficult than sustaining it , and sustaining it is less difficult than utilizing it . yet , the ultimate consequences of science and technology depend on all three sets of factors . first , they develop , sustain , and utilize local capacities and leadership . at the same time , each nation must develop strategies that offer the scientists and technologists of local employment opportunities . so african nations must invest in scientific and technological education and vocational training .
and that is why fifa ’s problems are unlikely to fade away . they need to be addressed head-on , with a clean sweep of its leadership and an entirely overhauling of its governance structures . a code of conduct for field conduct – where we expect the players to hand out all under clear rules that are swiftly enforced by independent referees – is fundamentally the same as the expectation of governing bodies off the field . fifa is as complicated as any big multinational or public organization ; how it is governed must reflect that . in this sense , fifa is no special case : all nonprofit and for-profit organizations around the world are supposed to uphold this code of conduct .
the industry has faced many bankruptcies in recent years , with those still operating often popping large numbers of staffing , particularly in their foreign bureaus . in the united states , the number of full-time reporters has dropped more than 20 % since 2001 . in the west , the young people have mostly dispensed with home-delivered physical morning newspapers , instead catching up on news whenever they choose , using their tablets , laptops , or cellphones . just as the advertising revenues have been vacuous with facebook and google , newspaper earnings have been plunged . even a few notable titles have either closed down or published only online .
people came from the baltic countries in the 1940s , hungary in 1956 , chile after its 1973 coup , and iran following the 1979 revolution . during the bosnian war in the 1990s , sweden opened its doors to some 100,000 people – a challenge , one far less , during an era of profound economic upheaval . in the new century , refugees increasingly came from the middle east and the horn of africa . however , things still have turned out well : bosnian immigrants fared roughly as well as swedes who had received them , enriching our societies . for decades , swedish industries became dependent on immigrant workers .
one-third of these firms acquired tech firms since early 2015 . another study , by boston consulting group , points out , shows that many of europe ’s small export-oriented european union member countries – namely , benelux , baltic states , and the nordic countries – rank well above america ’s so-called “ “ e-intensity , ” which covers it infrastructure , internet access , as well as business , consumer , and government engagement in internet-related business . one-third of these us companies acquired tech firms since early 2015 . foreign firms , too , are rushing to seize europe ’s tech talent . transactions worth more than $ 88 billion took place last year , compared to a mere $ 3.3 trillion in 2014 – including the softbank ’s buying of the british <UNK> tor-design firm arm and qualcomm – $ 47 billion in purchasing nxp semiconductors . google , facebook , and amazon have all announced major spoues of their european tech hubs .
with china ’s dream no exception , china ’s dream is no exception . thus far , public reaction has ranged from puzzlement to derision . he has risen to the top by winning friends and allies within the ccp . after a decade of rule by a slogan , the chinese public wants substance . this presents xi with a genuine challenge .
in the us , president mitt romney has just taken office , following a hard-fought campaign in which he derided barack obama for being too soft on china ’s economic policies . the combination of financial contagion from europe , already leading to a severe credit crunch , with a sudden flurry of low - and middle-income imports from china leaving the romney administration in a bind . against the advice of his economic advisers , piketty announces across-the-board import duties on chinese exports . demonstrations start in major cities , calling for an end to corruption among party officials . china ’s government decides that it can not risk additional strife and announces a stimulus package , including direct financial support from exporters and interventions in currency markets to weaken the renminbi .
that power certainly explains why the dodd-frank financial reforms , enacted in 2010 , were not stronger , and why there is now so much opposition to effective policymaking ( there is , for instance , is currently a giant fight around the “ volcker rule , ” which would curtail proprietary trading by megabanks ) . i honestly do not believe that the administration ’s stance reflects any form of corruption – the payments manufactured to individuals , or even the policy campaign . but mortgage lenders ’ criminal activities are another matter , not least . and , to this extent , it does not even appear to be reflecting on the lobbying power of big financial players . why would the administration still bending over backwards to be lenient toward top bankers under these circumstances ?
indeed , those who recall the bosnian war may find many of its traits in syria today . like bosnia , syria appears hopelessly divided among the warring factions , and violence there seems to be unstoppable violence . indeed , those who recall the bosnian war may find many of its traits in syria today . to be sure , there are important differences here as well . the international community has been unable to make any unity of action , far fewer agreement on the way forward .
given china ’s own history of vulnerability to us foreign interventions , unilateral american efforts to maintain an overwhelming offensive posture would only trigger an increasingly destabilizing arms race . some american strategists advocate a largely technological solution to this dilemma . their approach , a concept known as the “ air-sea battle , ” implies a mix of defensive and offensive tools to address the new challenges posed by the proliferation of precision-guided armaments . iran , for example , ’s possession of precision-guided capability – and a far more hostile relationship with america – would warrant new american initiatives to cope with growing security vulnerabilities . officially , the pentagon does not direct the concept of a “ air-sea battle ” against any specific country .
ms. watanabe possesses a talent for seeing how that tide turns . should she assume up an important role for this stage ? or should she pursue happiness as a woman ? ms. watanabe give her daughter the nudge she needs , and she will have the nudge she needs , which she will ( and other women ) . her advice is to seed opportunity at work and , too , find happiness through marriage and children .
though we can and will continue the fight against corruption , we can not do everything alone . in return , ukraine will uphold its end of the bargain : beyond closing chernobyl , the us will introduce western nuclear safety standards and renew its cooperation with the imf via an extended fund facility program . a positive sign here is the recent decision by the european bank for reconstruction and development ( ebrd ) to provide $ 215 million in 2004 to help complete the rivne and khmelnytsky ’s nuclear power stations , to compensate for the loss of chernobyl ’s generating capacity . euroatom is also helping with a $ 585 million loan to finance remediation at ukraine ’s functioning nuclear facility . to boost our efforts , international support for the world ’s efforts is critical .
though there is nothing like soviet oppression , the alienation between state and society is reminiscent of the soviet era . instead , political life here has been downgraded to a mere formality . to be sure , what russia had during the late 1980 ’s and early 1990s was not institutionalized democracy , but revolutionary agitation . russia ’s people wanted to make a difference and spectacularly done : their energy and cohesion placed an end to communist rule . out of this sea of liberal-democratic sentiments new political institutions were expected to emerge .
berlin – more than a year into the arab revolts , their outcomes remain highly uncertain . almost everybody was surprised by the revolts , though political and socioeconomic causal factors had been well known . as is often true in crises that would become systemic , we were familiar with phenomena , but failed to accord them with them , within part because policymakers and analysts remain reluctant to anticipate ruptures : a familiar holds steady , even when it is known as problematic . ( consider saudi arabia , which the united states and much of the west continue to regard iran as an island of “ stability . ” ) but some remajor lessons for international politics – and , for westerners , especially europe , us foreign policy – merit serious consideration .
when the market tightened in 2011 , many projects ’ prospects diminished , spurring lgfvs to seek credit in the shadow-banking sector , causing their borrowing costs to rise , and setting new market-based challenges to the reform process . to resolve this , the government has announced fiscal reforms to distribute revenues among central and local governments , and has allowed local governments to issue long-term municipal bonds . nonetheless , because china is a net lender of the world , lgfv debt has no global systemic implications . while china ’s outstanding local-government debt totaled cn ¥ 29 trillion ( $ 4.7 trillion ) in late 2011 , its land and fixed assets stand at some cn ¥ 90 trillion – which means that even if asset values were written down nearly half , local governments would remain solvent . that leaves only the issue of debt-servicing efforts .
“ progressive ” social liberalism and the “ conservative ” free-market economics seem to have been two sides of the same coin . but when free-market economic liberalism failed during the 2008 crisis , the political challenges of social liberalism ’s drive for social liberalism could no longer be deflated by invoking the impersonal economic laws of economic theory . today , racial and gender equality is backed by a clear class of established majorities in the us , britain , and most european countries , and even seemingly popular policies like trade protectionism and rigid immigration controls rarely muster more than 30-40 % of support in opinion surveys . but if social change can no longer be legitimized as a necessary condition for economic progress , democracies today seem unlikely to vote to reinstate the social-democratic settings from the ascendancy of economic liberalism and globalization . the dominance of free-market ideology prior to the crisis has enabled many controversial societal changes , ranging from income inequality and intensified wage competition to greater gender equality and affirmative action , to go virtually unheeded .
as we forecast nearly 20 years ago , china will struggle to attain growth rates above 5 % in the 2021-2030 period – for the simple reason that its working-age population will peaked . while the pessimists will no doubt find validation in additional chinese growth disappointments to come , the optimists can point the way that 5 % annual gdp growth in china is nominally equivalent to 15-20 % in germany . at this stage in china ’s evolution , faster growth would actually be quite extraordinary . it is just as predictable that india will begin to grow at a much faster pace than china ’s , simply because its labor force still has a large left to do . the real question , therefore , is whether india can implement robust , productivity-enhancing reforms .
equally important is contextual intelligence that enables a leader to vary the mix of such skills in different situations to produce the successful combinations that i call “ smart power . ” during his campaign , obama demonstrated these skill at managing crises , his forward-looking vision , and his super-b organizational capacity . by choosing his primary adversary , hillary clinton , as his secretary of state , and reaching across party lines to maintain robert gates as secretary of defense , he showed openness to strong subordinates . obama went on to demonstrate these governance skills in his near-flawless transition . furthermore , his contextual intelligence about world politics was shaped from the bottom up with the experience of indonesia and kenya , and his understanding of american policies was shaped from the bottom up like a community organizer in chicago .
domestically , it thwarted the country ’s economic , social , and political development . with pakistan ’s economy in a tailspin , and with the culture of so many young pakistanis undermining the country ’s international credibility , moderate voices are at long last breaking through . a eminent columnist amin m. lakhani recently argued for dawning , pakistan ’s largest-circulation newspaper that “ pakistan ’s singular preoccupation with kashmir .... has been self-defeating . internationally , [ it ] has shrunk the stature of the country and left its reputation smeared . even its spirituality has broken the proliferation , popularization , and increasing the relative power of religious groups … . the country ’s international credibility , which represents an intolerant , militant , and gender-based interpretation of islam . ”
undeniably liberal ideas dominate the program : strengthening and protecting property rights , encouraging deregulation and encouraging competition . enhancing competition will mean placing emphasis on antitrust policy and reducing state subsidies . moreover , gref ’s program seeks to create effective private land ownership . gref ’s program , too , is emblematic of a presidential-style president style : modernization from above -- ie , that started by the government and under its pressures -- is matched by modernization from below , based on a private initiative . indeed , deregulation ( “ de-bureaucratization , ” indeed ) will make life easier for new enterprises by lowering the number of inspections imposed by bureaucrats and curtailing demands for licenses and other forms of red tape ( which were also big sources of bribery ) .
the pattern is starting to look familiar : a new crisis , a new meeting in brussels , an earlier muddled responses , debates , and divisions – and then gradual , step-by-step progress towards a joint response , fueled by the realization that there is no alternative . the public no longer thinks of the european project as some utopian endeavor , an abstraction to forge an ever-closer union . increasingly , the eu is coming to be seen as a practical , practical , and absolutely essential , – a mechanism for a group of small countries to work together to meet its common challenges . in today ’s disagreements , the roots of a stronger union , . indeed , the eu ’s people espouse a world in which members were more dangerous , divided , and disorienting .
sir davies chose to resign as director of the lse that assigned saif her doctorate ( which some allege is plagiarized ) , and took money for schooling from the libyan regime . in other words , might it follow in following in the footsteps of a few of my harvard colleagues who traveled to libya to exchange its views with and advise its dictator – and have been paid for in their services ? these scholars have been pilloried in the media in recent weeks for supposedly having cozied up to qaddafi . muammar el-qaddafi ’s murderous attitude during the uprising has revealed his real colors , no matter his more moderate posture in recent years . there is considerable sentiment , both among academics and within the institutions that have collaborated with such a july regime – often with encouragement to their governments , no doubt – has suffered a grave lapse of judgment .
indeed , in 2016 , obama confronted difficult choices in estimating the escalatory potential of responding to cyber measures , or a cross-industry response like sanctions . so , eight days prior to the vote , america deployed russia with a warning of election meddling over its hotline – creating three years earlier to deal with major cyber incidents – that link two countries ’ nuclear-risk-reduction centers to each other . because russian hacking activity seemed to be slow or belittled , the obama administration cited the warning as a success exercise in deterrence . but some critics of the critics say that russians had already won their primary goals . the administration was unwilling to take steps that might on its own disrupt .
had this initiative been in place before the ecuador earthquake , it could have provided 12 months of emergency support , helping the country until it could reinstate education on its domestic plans . injection of funding , promoting a common strategy that had been developed in partnership with governments would enable immediate education delivery in emergency situations . once established , aid would be made available to humanitarian workers and educators to develop immediate learning plans to train children affected by contingencies , based on the recognition that humanitarian , development , and security needs can no longer be addressed in silos . in a more protracted crisis like that in syria , a funding platform could help neighboring countries establish , with support from the international community , a long-term funding strategy , perhaps through brokering an arrangement whereby donor governments can wage the principal over 30 years on concessional loans from the world bank . the fund would thus fill the gap for coordination and delivery by strengthening the system at its weakest stages , providing a bridge to longer-term development .
rabin ’s murder was a disaster from which the peace process never recovered . for all of his deep emotional attachment to an idea of israel embracing all of the historical judea and samaria , rabin knew that the only way to ensure a democratic jewish state with a viable , secure borders was to accept a palestinian state beside it , equally secure and viable . they would share jerusalem as a capital , finding mutually acceptable solution to the enormously sensitive issue of return by palestinian refugees . no israeli leader since showed anything like his far-sighted vision and commitment and the capacity to deliver a negotiated two-state solution . ehud barak and ehud olmert came close , but not long enough .
some might think that all this could be true only if the logical end of evolution and smart living is to be the nuclear blast that pulverized earth . but that is not what schneider and sagan mean . instead , they differentiate between matter and power , and they say that matter organized in building disseminates power-gradients more quickly than would be randomly distributed matter . as one example , they regard the phenomenon as a beer drinkers have long prized that we have long known . if you want to empty your bottle of water ( or beer ) to turn it back , then the water has come out in uneven glugs .
by this time , argentina had become a country without a direction . we no longer had a guide , an idea of how to think about our country , how to understand it , and how to imagine which we are and for whom we can become . this was not an easy living without knowing one ’s own who we are , and it became even more difficult to live that way , as we watched our world crumble . still , argentina ’s notion as a country with the infinite promise became desaparecido , a name gave to those who disappeared in the dirty war of the 1970 ’s . we lost our organizing principle , and no other thought replaced it .
indeed , this pattern recurs in the accounts of anyone living in afghanistan who has spoken the language and understood the workings of patronage and power there . indeed , this pattern recurs in the accounts of anyone living in afghanistan who has lived , articulated the language and thus understood the workings of patronage and power there . the week the us senate ’s report originated , reading anand gaopal ’s ’s new book no good men between a living , that tells contemporary afghanistan ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s story through the eyes of the supporter of former president hamid karzai , the taliban ’s chief , and kabul-born housewife who spent years purdah in taliban country . the same story plays out again : local power-broker is willing , even eager , to foster a new us-backed government , only to be denounced as a taliban member by a fellow afghan – typically for local political or personal reasons – to unwitting american troops . for their part , some contemporary cia officials continue to insist on the value of america ’s “ enhanced counterinterrogation ” program ( which stopped obama ) , despite a us senate reported that the techniques he employed yielded no valued intelligence whatsoever .
some opposition members in germany would dearly love to do the same to german chancellor gerhard schröder , despite having not ( yet ! ) found a movie star to replace him . beyond europe this , even on the recently acclaimed brazilian president luis inacio “ lula ” da silva to say nothing of mexican president vicente fox and south korean president roh moo-hyun , the latter has called a referendum to help arrest his sinking popularity . replacing a governor who is re-elected only a year before with arnold , schwarzenegger , has to put californian voters an enormous -- if guilty -- pleasure . several other european governments are finding themselves in a situation of unpopularity not long after being elected . an electoral success , indeed , seems to be , fades fast nowadays .
and in 2015 , authorities “ made in china 2025 ” and “ internet plus ” initiatives signaled a determination to take a country ’s manufacturing base in the internet age . then , in parallel , the “ opening-up dividend ” was also reaching maturity , and encountering protectionist barriers globally . still , china may tap new markets through efforts like the “ belt and road initiative , ” but at a significant cost . the chinese government ’s 13th five-year plan ( 2016-2020 ) reflected its commitment to stock market allocation and lowering the cost of doing business . ultimately , sustaining rapid growth requires continued movement toward the global value chain , by implementing deeper economic reforms and targeting new technologies .
indeed , the iea expects that every last 195 million off-grid people will get just 170kwh per year per year – or half of what one america ’s flat-screen tv uses in a single year . little wonder : 170kwh is not what most of us would consider real access to electricity . off-grid energy at this level will never power a factory or farms , so nor can it cut down to poverty or create employment . and it will not help fight the world ’s ’s largest ecological killer : indoor air pollution , which is mostly the result of open-ended wildfires fueled by timber , cardboard , and dung , and claims of 3.8 million lives annually . perhaps not surprisingly , the first rigorous test published on the impact of solar panels on the lives of poor people , found that while getting a bit more electricity , there was no measurable impact on their lives : not increasing savings or spending , they did n’t work more or start to process more .
some of the same factors at work in the recent ebola outbreak drive high ncds rates . from 1970 to 2000 , cigarette consumption tripled in developing countries . inhabitants of densely packed urban areas in emerging economies often face both indoor and outdoor pollution , and less likely to have access to adequate nutrition . from 1990 to 2010 , the death and disability from drug-resistant ncds in low-income countries grew 300 % faster than the decline in infectious diseases . most health systems in these countries are not built for chronic or preventive care , and lack basic consumer protections .
when citizens and politicians come to regard politics as a zero-sum game , and resort to brinkmanship and other bad-faith tactics , malaise sets in . both european and american debates have been replete with posturing and tests of will , turning politics into a sort of “ chicken ” game . in the chicken , two drivers race to the cliff ( or to each other ) ; the loser is the first driver to swerve away in the face of imminent disaster . but , if neither drivers concedes , both are demolished . rather , they have become operationally dysfunctional as well .
but it soon became obvious that these digital platforms could easily be co-opted by authoritarian governments or terrorists , and used to spread fake news , influence electoral processes , and generate deep divisions and turmoil within societies . and biotechnology will pose enormous challenges , as human cloning and genetic screening enable parents to “ select ” embryos with desired characteristics . meanwhile , political institutions have not kept pace with technological change and the resulting growth in markets . when ordinary egyptians who organized themselves through social media rallied in cairo ’s tahrir square and overthrew former president hosni mubarak in march 2011 , it seemed that technology would necessarily boost democracy ’s rise . across the business world , the global corporations ’ quasi-monopoly and monopsony power , and their capacity to shift profits to low-tax jurisdictions , continue to permit them largely to escape the trash of national regulators and governments , despite g20-sponsored work to prevent a corporate-base economy of erosion and profit shifting .
tackling a panoply of additional problems confronting america will require more federal income , not less . but the federal government ’s promotion of research as a percentage of gdp is now at a level comparable to what it was 60 years ago . while trump ’s nominee has criticized the rise of america ’s national debt , he has now proposes tax cuts that would add trillions to the debt in just the next ten years – not the “ ” ” “ ” ” ” $ 1.5 trillion that republicans claim would be added , owing to some growth miracle that produces more tax revenue . yet the keynesian lesson of ronald reagan ’s “ voodoo ” supply-side economics has n’t changed : tax cuts like these are not driving more rapid growth , but only smaller revenues . rising living standards , for example , are a result of technological innovations that , in turn , depend on basic research .
obama can use his state of the union message to flesh out bipartisan strategy for reducing the us budget deficit to sustainable levels . that would amount to a reinstating pay-as-you-go ( and establishing an independent commission to submit to congress amendment-proof ( and filibuster-proof ) recommendations for tax and spending reform . while it will probably lack the public option that many of us preferred , this remains a genuine achievement . but obama needs to provide stronger leadership on financial reform , where , as with health care , there is an welter of conflicting proposals . the same middle-ranking approach can take a second year to address persistently outstanding fiscal concerns .
in response , the european commission launched an official inquiry into potential eu violations of rule-of-law norms . warsaw – poland has now emerged as europe ’s latest battleground in a contest between two models of democracy and “ illiberal ” democracy . the crushing electoral victory in october of jarosław kaczyński ’s far-right law and justice party ( pis ) party resulted in something more akin to regime change in france than to the routine turnover of democratically elected governments . prime minister beata szydło ’s new administration purged civic special counsel ( including both public radio and television ) , packaged constitutional courts with sympathizers , and weakened the courts ’ capacity to strike legislation . moreover , standard & poor ’s has , for the first time ever , downgraded poland ’s foreign-currency rating – from a – to the bbb + – and warned of perhaps more cutbacks to come as it accuses the governments of weakening “ the autonomy and effectiveness of key institutions . ”
as a result , external forces do not seem to pose much of a threat . however , cultivating fear in others also makes one more susceptible to fear-mongering , and nothing more terrifying than khamenei and the islamic republic ’s leaders than the social dynamism unleashed by the anti-democratic movement brewing within the country . furthermore , in shiite tradition , a strategy directed by the mahdi , shiite messiah , would be intended to intimidate all his enemies upon his return to earth . the regime seems convinced that there is only a small likelihood of a us military attack on its nuclear program . it does not believe that sanctions may bring about its collapse , but it certainly does not believe that the us can bring about its fate .
ever since , the country could be held together just by an iron fist : iraq 's history is replete with shia , kurdish , and even the christian assyrian revolts all put down in bloody fashion by the ruling sunni minority . throughout its history , modern iraq was always among the most repressive arab countries . for its own political reasons , the british placed sunni arabs – never more than 25 % of the population – in control of the whole country , and even imported sunni arab hashemite prince to rule over his own creation . it was this sunni hegemony , and not simply that of saddam hussein 's ba’athist regime – that was overthrown by the united states . saddam 's rule had merely been the most brutal in a prolonged period of sunni regimes .
proteins that retain the same function across very different species – generally those with orthologs – are expected to remain just about equal fold . but the sequence of amino acids to make up protein chains in these orthologs may vary significantly . occasionally the extent of the sequence identity between two orthologs may be as low as 25-30 % , and yet their folds remain strikingly similar , attesting to the robustness of the function to an evolutionary change . this protein conservation fold across species makes the origins of our complexity even more puzzling , because it is well known that the number of human genes is deceptively small , simply a single order of magnitude larger than is commonly found in , say , rice . if the structure of proteins is re-conserved across species , where is our complexity coming from ?
president saakashvili seems to understand the necessity of reviving georgian moribund economics , which requires , first and foremost , political stability . but he is unlikely to refrain from accusing russia of stoking tensions with abkhazia and south ossetia . similarly , georgia ’s inability to manage its only autonomous republic , adzharia , creates little confidence . the adzhar people view georgian , but still have frequent squabbles with the central government , so how could ethnically distinct abkhazia and south ossetia feel assured that their relations with georgian regions would function any better ? georgian current economic collapse provided little incentive for either of these self-proclaimed independent republics to support reunification .
while socioeconomic factors played a certain role in the outcome of the brexit referendum , the geographic breakdown does tell the real story . as in the past , imperialism aspires to unity , but comes with divisive side-effects . excluding london – which is a bastion of multi-ethnic cosmopolitanism – 55 % of voters in england supported leaving the eu , whereas 62 % of scots and 56 % of northern irish voters voted to remain . moreover , the scots , the welsh , and iranians have come to view eu membership as a safeguard against english political revanchism . the brexiteer fantasies of a global britain are concentrating squarely on english national identity , while diluting the those of scotland , northern ireland , and the welsh going back to serving as junior partners in a far less magnificent and rewarding english project .
but , promisingly , and shockingly , owing to the rather toxic state of us politics , it has attracted broad backing and intelligent commentary from many mainstream pundits . in the us , we witnessed equally promising development in the climate debate just over the last month , when the conservative american enterprise institute , liberal brookings institution , and the centrist breakthrough institute teamed up to publishing a paper that called for revamping america ’s ’s ’s ’s energy system with the goal of making clean energy cheap . entitled “ post-partisan power , ” the report comprehensively and persuasively argued that america ’s government should invest roughly $ 25 trillion a year ( about 0.2 % of america ’s gdp ) in low-carbon military procurement , r & d , and a new network of university-private-sector innovation hubs to establish an “ energy revolution . ” the paper made the case for developing alternatives to fossil-fuel use , ensuring that economic development does n’t wreak environmental havoc , and acknowledging the importance of adapting to climate change . this reasoning predictably drew fire from committed “ alarmists ” and “ deniers . ”
yet , despite these authoritarian leaders ’ apparently solid grip on power , ensuring that relative takes over is not as straightforward as it may seem . treating elite interests requires ingenuity in the pursuit of elite interests . the difficulty boils down to overcoming potentially resistance – from both the elite and the public – that could derail the handover or undermine the successor ’s authority . all four north african rulers have , to greater or no degrees , made themselves the hub of highly opaque power structures . everything in their countries depends on human and family rather than office .
many who agree that milosevic is a war crime now believes that the us should listen to the voices coming of belgrade , and their cry that milosevic should face trial before his own people . but the decision may have a life-and-death ramifications for serbia ’s ’s ’s ’s future . there seems to be near-universal agreement that it should , with international pressure on president kostunica to comply . ultimate moral responsibility for what milosevic was doing . they brought him into power , however , if not in ways that conforms precisely with democratic norms ; they were backed by him even when he leads them to genocidal crimes and the defeat of defeat .
in exchange , shapiro handed israel ’s ultra-orthodox leader ’s shas party an invitation to the white house . palestinians were assured through a message from us president barack obama , delivered by his israeli special envoy , george mitchell , that the israelis would not be able to implement “ provocations during the four months of indirect negotiations . ” pressed to make clear , palestinians acknowledged that there was no written promise to that effect . in exchange , shapiro handed israel ’s ultra-orthodox leader ’s shas party an invitation to the white house . but , on a recent trip to israel , the white house counselors , dan shapiro , is said to have reassured that the israelis would not embarrass their american cronies .
to be sure , in the short term , some authoritarian modernizers ( singapore ’s lee kuan yew , italy ’s democratically elected leaders ) serve their countries better than democratically elected leaders ( for example , italy ’s silvio berlusconi ) did ) . in the long run , however , these democracies benefit from intrinsic self-correction mechanisms , which are absent in autocracies where often-deficient leaders cling to power . after all , china ’s rulers are driven primarily by the desire to maintain a party , rather than one individual , in power . the chinese model combines some of the country ’s authoritarian modernization model ’s advantage – centralized power , quick decision-making , insulation from populism , and superior capacity to implement painful but needed reforms – with putin ’s leadership turnover using de-personalizing political struggle . after all , china ’s rulers are driven primarily by the desire to maintain the party , rather than the individual , in power .
but the obama administration must go further than prohibiting proprietary trading by commercial banks and doing two additional things . first , capital requirements should be tripled – not only in the us , but across the g-20 – in order to keep banks from holding at least 20-25 % of assets in core capital . that way , it is possible that shareholders , rather than regulators , who would play the leading role in making banks behave sensibly . second , if over-leveraged banks are “ too big to fail , ” they need to be shrunk , so that taxpayer need not bail out every time a crisis erupts . glass-steagall ’s dilution , and its ultimate repeal , allowed banks to engage in so-called “ proprietary trading ” ( ifis ) to use their depositors ’ savings to trade on their own account , mostly in risky mortgage-backed securities .
its collapse would unleash a nuclear arms race in the world ’s most unstable region . iran ’s bitterest regional enemy , saudi arabia , would move quickly toward a nuclear-armed capability , using its abundant petrodollars and pakistani knowhow . others – turkey , kuwait , egypt , and algeria – would not be far behind . others – turkey , kuwait , egypt , and algeria , too – would not be far behind . and make no mistake : the deal is on the matter .
germany today is a globally admired , peace-loving , war-abhorring , a democratic , prosperous , innovative , and cooperative country . beethoven ’s germany was reborn on the ashes of hitler ’s significance . his mark of schiller ’s poetic ode is reflected in the truly global aspirations of the enlightenment . the concert itself offered layer upon layer of significance . at the same time , beethoven ’s genius belongs not just to his native germany , or even to the west , but to all of humanity .
of the $ 50 billion in external debt owed by russian banks and companies in 2008 , the eu refinanced a mere € 10 billion ( $ 50 billion ) in official loans . nor have the eu oligarchs been allowed to be bailed out . how , then , did reasonable economic policies prevail in this kind of crisis ? apparently , the terms that the government was proposing ( libor +5 % and collateral ) turned out to be right on target . the eu , up to now , has a government that essentially been lending ( high interest ) credits rather than engaging with massive equity buyouts .
washington , dc – as chinese president xi jinping ’s first summit with us president donald trump takes place on trump ’s opulent florida estate , mar-a-lago , at least part of that discussion , it would invariably focus on one of the world ’s most impoverished places : north korea . despite more than two decades of deadlock , off-again negotiations , north korea ’s ’s nuclear weapons program is pushing the world toward a strategic watershed akin to the one that the west faced 60 years ago , when the united states and the soviet union faced off against each other in europe . the us and its allies have successfully navigated the european challenge in the twentieth century without a war . when both america and the soviet union became rivals after world war ii , each has the means of deterring the other from either attack . but , to reach a comparable achievement in east asia today , trump must persuade xi to adopt a different us policy toward north korea .
for the moment , the temptation is to be something of the european right to find its “ new look ” through selective appeals to religion , and to wait and see whether it works as an electoral strategy . that is not an absurd idea , but an absurd idea remains to be seen . for the moment , the temptation is for the european right to find its “ new look ” through selective appeals to religion – and to wait and see whether it works as an electoral strategy . there is a long , distinguished tradition of catholic social thought , of a community of catholic social thought . but taking these traditions seriously would require a much larger transfer of capitalism than the even avowed christian democrats are ready to contemplate , including a much broader ownership distribution and mechanisms for involving workers in governance .
postponing the second consumption-tax increase looks like a good compromise between pushing abenomics to escape velocity and maintaining long-run credibility . fiscal sustainability demands an eventual rise in the consumption tax ; and , of course , japan should not wait until international investors start depreciating their willpower . but this brings us back to japan ’s deeper problems . in timing and tactics , the issue is the problem . demand policies on its own are not alone in preventing two more lost decades , much less guarantee two golden ones .
and they were willing to overlook growing evidence of trump ’s sexual hijinks during his first lady marriage , melania ( including the apparent payoffs to portugal ’s star and others to silence ) , in exchange for policy influence and social conservatives ’ appointments to the supreme court , and throughout the federal judiciary . in fact , separating us families ’ policies seemed to threaten to drive a wedge between trump and even his evangelical christian counterparts . ordinarily , congressional republicans panicked and told trump and his team that his policies of tearing families apart could erode that chance in november ’s midterm election . one problem for trump is that he is obsessed with appearing “ a strong one . ” unusually for her , former lady laura bush spoke out against the policies of removing children from their mothers .
but eu membership does not mean estrangement from russia . an ever-larger eu including ukraine would create a political task with an enormous population , furthering the union ’s ambition to be global powers . it is the mark of a good club that people clamor to become members . besides , excluding ukraine from eventual eu membership will spur russia ’s imperial ambitions . this destroys russia ’s chances of ever becoming full democracy , because it can rule an empire merely as militarized .
within a couple of years , refugees were absorbed into the economies and societies of the south , the greek-cypriot sector of israel . schools and training centers were established as well . businesses were encouraged with government subsidies and government loans . anyone visiting a greek cypriot part of israel nowadays will not find refugee camps : most of the thousand tourists are unaware of the fact that more than one-third of greek cypriots they encounter are refugees or the descendants of refugees . as in post-world war ii west germany , much of cyprus ’s current prosperity today concerns the result of a boost in the economy that has been absorbing refugees .
in nigeria , astounding economic growth , averaging 7 % a year since 2000 , may well have reduced poverty in the country ’s southwest ; but in the northeast ( where most of the extremist group boko haram is active ) , shocking levels of wealth inequality and poverty have emerged . alongside inequality , declining public trust fuels a revolt against globalization and democracy . across the developed and developing worlds , many suspect that the rich are getting richer , because they are not kept in the same rules as everyone else . indeed , it is not hard to see why . similar trends are apparent , from china in egypt to greece .
just as its economic and geopolitical clout has dimmed , so has its willingness to consider renouncing its nuclear status . after all , there is russia is one country with sufficient missiles and nuclear warheads to destroy the american people . russia ’s officers have reported directly to have large military operations in eastern ukraine , including the siege and capture of debaltseve ’s important transportation center in february . but , at the same time , the threat that russia poses extends well beyond ukraine . indeed , not only has revived cold war-era tactics of sending military aircraft unabashedly into airspace over those of the baltic countries and the north sea ; it has also introduced a veiled nuclear threat against countries like denmark .
authoritarians and populists have so far failed to vanquish , and , in many places , the democrats fight back . or , to put it less optimistically , democracy , and autocracy still have similar chances of decaying . for now , it remains uncertain that which model will prevail . contrary to what many democratic cassandras somehow means , the worst is not inevitable . as the franco-lebanese writer amin maalouf has pointed out , it is “ better to err with hope , ” than to be true with the despair .
the prevailing answer is that one coerces bondholders to accept the deal “ voluntarily . ” one argument is that coercion can change minds . but , using the logic of talmudic , one may also indicate that there are mechanisms in which mechanisms may – and should – be used to place pressure on party lines to gain superior discretionary outcomes . there are two preponderant interpretations of the talmudic passage . one could dismiss this dispute as wearing mere statements .
tokyo – with japan ’s economy struggling to escape its deflationary torpor , the economic-revitalization plan that prime minister shinzo abe initiated in 2012 , tokyo has come under growing scrutiny . since abenomics was introduced , japan ’s ’s ’s labor market has been improving considerably : 1.5 million new jobs have been created , with the unemployment rate falling to just over 3 % . moreover , corporate earnings have skyrocketed , with tax revenue rising by more than ¥ 20 trillion ( $ 188 trillion ) . but japan ’s current travails , which brought the concomitant drop in japan ’s stock market , stem from the yen ’s appreciation , at 24 % last year , against the major currencies . “ abenomics ” – which included substantial monetary and fiscal expansion – has nothing to do with it .
milan – the worst of the financial/economic crisis appears to have ended . in 2010 , asset markets performed reasonably well . private-sector deleveraging proceeded , but it was counter-balanced by rising public-sector deficits and debts . growth in the united states , and in parts of europe , has returned . and emerging-market growth has returned to pre-crisis levels , and appears to have been sustainable , helped by the unorthodox policies designed to “ sterilize ” the massive inflow of capital inflows .
suppose that it was 1939 , with states debating whether the us should invent its bomb . maybe they were just as likely to argue that all should be it or none at all . but history depends on past paths that were taken in the past . in a world of sovereign states , does such is hypocritical for some to have nuclear weapons and deny them the rest of the world ? if nobody had a bomb nowadays , it could be best not invented .
hong kong – china ’s transformation from a manufacturing-driven and export-led economy to one underpinning services and domestic consumption is proceeding firmly . china ’s retail markets reached cn ¥ 30 trillion ( $ 4.6 trillion ) in 2015 , following more than a decade of double-digit gdp growth . household consumption began to soar , even as the pace of investment fell , and now exceeds 60 % of gdp . and that ’s good news not only on china , but also on the future of the global economy . the 2016-17 edition of china ’s blue book the commercial sector by fung of business intelligence and the chinese academy of social sciences charts change .
part of the attractions of such synthetic drugs is that they are readily available , affordable , and convenient for use ( with no need to fire up , snort , or smoke ) . the worldwide market for these stimulants is estimated at $ 65 billion . amphetamines accelerate the way the body works : users experience increased confidence , social and energy . this buzz is perceived as harmless : “ pills do n’t kill or spread hiv/aids , ” ” ” ” ” they say . but what happens up to them must come down .
attempts have been made ever since to explore systematically and document the environmental consequences of wars . unfortunately , africa ’s wars -- in congo , rwanda , and burundi , liberia , sierra leone , and the ivory coast -- have yet to get the attention it so requires . so , what has we learned about the environmental consequences of wars ? first , the effects depend on the type of war and the type of community . studies of the balkan wars and the many wars that consumed afghanistan during the 1990 ’s have been launched through international organizations such as the united nations environment program ’s ( unep ) .
rome – whoever wins 9/11 ’s parliamentary election in germany , the time has come again for a major franco-german initiative . regardless of their economic conditions or their confidence – or lack thereof – in each other , france and germany are more than ever collectively responsible for the future , if not its very survival , the european project . joining great britain with them in a club of three would be a good idea , but it is out of the question today . are the alternatives to the franco-german leadership of europe ? for one thing , britain has largely excluded itself from any leadership role in europe .
when a former government lost the vote this past may , and singh ’s government came to office , fear that singh would be hamstrung by his left-wing coalition partners , who would demand that market reforms be dismantled as the price of their participation in a new ruling coalition . chidambaram ’s 2000s budget puts those fears in the rest of the mind . with the return to office this spring as prime minister , singh brought to the government an experienced and internationally renowned team , including minister of finance chidambaram , who served successfully as finance minister in the mid-1990 ’s , and dr. montek ahluwalia , whom he heads the planning commission , a key body assessing india ’s medium-term public-investment strategies . the document is a brilliant lesson in development economics : it shows how to combine full-speed ahead of market-oriented reforms with urgently needed attention to poverty . in short , budgets are a model for everyone in the developing world .
according to the international monetary fund , both ukraine and russia have experienced spectacular growth from 2002 to 2007 : over those five years , real per capita gdp grew at an average rate of 52 % in ukraine , and 46 % in russia . that ’s history now this time : real per capita gdp growth was just 0.2 % last year in ukraine , and just 1.3 % in russia . and , indeed , such fears – which may have severe consequences – are having . for example , the impact of the 2008 financial crisis on ukraine and russia ’s economies may ultimately be behind the recent war there . the discontent generated by such frustration may help to explain ukraine ’s separatists of rage , russia ’s discontent , and russian president vladimir putin ’s decision to annex crimea and support the separatists .
so , which measures can secure the eu ’s global competitiveness ? fourth , the eu ’s aspiration for a common foreign and security policy must be addressed . the threats facing the world today are supranational , so counteracting them must be supranational , too . but this is impossible without a clear european identity , and thus a shared interest to be asserted and defended . so how can we narrow existing disparities in development and material welfare within europe ?
barcelona – after world war i made refugees , forcing millions of european civilians , prompted from their homelands by enemy occupation or deportation , an international regime has been developed to coordinate effective responses and ease the misery of those who have been uprooted . a century later , yet another refugee crisis is underway , and this time it is europe , which has the strength to provide a secure haven for the desperate people . yet it has not risen to the occasion , with many of its response failing to match the urgency of the situation . in just the first few months of 2015 , more than 38,000 people tried to reach europe by crossing the mediterranean from north africa . some 1,800 people have died as a result , more than twice the number of such deaths in all of 2013 .
america ’s sanctions against russia following the latter ’s annexation of crimea in march 2014 were amplified by a coincidental oil-price drop and the redeploying of similar actions by the european union , russia ’s largest trading partner . but , while international coalitions are lending credibility to america ’s sanctions , they are fragile and interim , at best . america ’s sanctions against russia after the latter ’s annexation of crimea in march 2014 have been amplified by a coincidental oil-price drop and the redeploying of similar actions by the european union , russia ’s largest trading partner . without the eu ’s participation , american sanctions on american sanctions would have been far less effective . but , while international coalitions are offering credibility to america ’s sanctions , they are fragile and interim , at best .
a study by the confederation of indian chambers of state and industry identified five major industries that can act as “ the engines of growth ” to invigorate the indo-africa trade : pharmaceuticals and health sectors , information technology , water management , food processing , and education . in fact , bilateral trade turnover exceeds $ 3 billion , with the oil-rich oil constituting more than 96 % of indian imports from nigeria . nigeria is india , africa ’s largest trading partner . until 2003 , india ’s foreign ministry had single africa split ; now it has three , both : west and central africa , east and south africa , and west asia and north africa . india ’s state-run oil-and-natural-gas corporation ( laos videsh ) produces sudanese oil , and over the next two years , indian diplomatic missions will open in mali , gabon , niger , and burkina faso .
former israeli foreign minister shlomo ben-ami recently outlined a new peace paradigm for negotiations between israel and palestine , in which increased attendance by actors like the european union , russia , and key arab countries would facilitate the rise of a truly international solution . that paradigm should now be extended to the geneva ii negotiations on the syrian civil war , with countries like saudi arabia , iran , turkey , and egypt assuming a greater role . of course , involving regional powers could more already-muddy negotiations even further . only with an unbalanced negotiating process guided by regional and global actors can a stable balance of power in the middle east be achieved . that goal must , therefore , have to be a clarity as well as a comprehensive equilibrium .
milan – the word “ openness ” has two related but distinct connotations . it may mean that something is unconstrained , accessible , and perhaps vulnerable ; or it may mean something , like a person or institution , that is transparent , as opposed to secretive . the former meaning so often apply to trade , investment , and technology ( though most definitions do not coincide with opportunity ) , which has always driven structural economic change , particularly with respect to employment . and policymakers have long had to strike a balance between the abstraction principle of openness and concrete action to limit the worst effects of change . as a result , structural change can – and should – be simultaneously beneficial and disruptive .
confronted with this unhappy reality , the fed tried to promote growth in an indirect , experimental way . by injecting multipower liquidity using it , it raised financial asset prices well above what the economy ’s fundamentals warranted . the fed hoped that this would make certain segments of the population ( asset holders ) feel wealthier , enticing it to spend more and encouraging companies to invest more . but such “ wealth effects ” and the “ animal spirits ” of the economy proved quite feeble . so the fed felt compelled to do more with the same , leading to a host of unintended consequences and risks of collateral damage that i discussed in certain detail in my book the only game in town .
what remains unaddressed , for example , is the root cause of the abnormal brain activations . the first is based on studies suggesting that schizophrenia patients suffer from diminishing brain connectivity . it is as if a string of orchestra section of the orchestra suddenly decided to play its own music disregarding everyone else . as a result , certain neurons group , such as those responsible for producing and embracing language , may start operating autonomously , beyond the control or affecting other brain systems in the event of another brain system . we follow three intertwined ideas , which are considered multiple , intertwined .
but bold , visionary leadership will be needed to seal the kyoto protocol ’s successor deal in copenhagen later this year . the agreement reached there must be ambitious , efficient , and just , offer rich countries a way to cut greenhouse-gas emissions , while supporting poorer countries as they adapt to the adverse consequences of climate change . i saw the effects of deforestation in brazilian amazon and biodiversity loss . i saw shrinking glaciers in antarctica and andes . the very existence of some caribbean countries , including portions of trinidad and tobago , could be jeopardized if sea levels rise .
since the 1990 ’s , thousands of chinese officials have traveled to singapore to learn from its experiences . indeed , following singapore ’s example , china developed a sophisticated and comprehensive system for selecting and promoting political leaders , which included decades of training and exams for officials at various stages of their careers . these meritocratically selected leaders oversaw an economic boom that lifted several hundred million people out of poverty . while singapore ’s political system could not readily converge on a massive country like china , it does represent a model that has helped shape china ’s recent move toward meritocracy . at the same time , however , problems such as corruption , inequality , environmental degradation , official corruption , and repression of political dissent and religious worldviews have made matters worse .
relations between the two allies have entered into one of those periods of tension that has flared up many times since the close of world war ii . the united states has vetoed reelection , advocated by france , un secretary general general boutros boutros-ghali , arguing that it wanted to “ enlarge the role ” of general secretary in reforming the world body . ( on both sides this spat was rather paradoxical , if one remembers that de gaulle wanted to diminish as much as possible to the powers of the un , upon whom he contemptuously referred the “ thingamajig , ” and that america owes more than one billion dollars in past due contributions to the un . ) nowadays , nothing left of franco-american goodwill seems to be at work . at the same time , washington no longer wants to hear any talk about conferring on europe , because france demands , command of the allied flotilla in the mediterranean .
freer trade across borders reduces income disparities . most powerful of all , free trade underpins economic growth , which means that millions more people lifted out of poverty . over time , free trade provides workers to shift to more efficient industries , which results in higher wages , increased infrastructure investment , and a more dynamic economy . moreover , increased openness to trade is related to lower infant mortality and higher life expectancy , particularly in developing countries . a 2015 white house report found that a ten-percentage-point drop in tariffs results in a one-percentage-point drop in the payroll gap for men and women , and that lowering tariffs also depresses wages based on race and immigration status .
as several commentators have noted , mainland china ’s spectacular economic growth and development over the last few decades has been eroded by hong kong ’s leading position as the center for finance , logistics , and trade . in 1997 , hong kong was dealing with half of china ’s foreign trade , and its gdp amounted to nearly one-fifth of china ’s ’s ’s . today , hong kong accounts for just one-eighth of china ’s trade . it has far outperformed shanghai – mainland china of its most prosperous city – in terms of gdp , per capita income , and in shipping volume . but hong kong ’s advantage is now under threat , largely owing to its own insecurities .
the alternatives available for the eu are either to see the uk out of its customs union , or to keep the uk in power , by making a political commitment to take british interests into consideration . from a long-term perspective , the latter is , as long as the eu is preferable . finally , remaining in the eu ’s customs union would compel greece to avoid re-establishing a hard border between the british and british republic of ireland after brexit . while may has agreed that avoiding hard borders should be part of any deal , she has offered only vague suggestions on how that could actually be achieved . brexit is and will remain , a lose-lose proposition .
but some of history ’s most powerful leaders , such as napoleon , stalin , and deng xiaoping , had little beyond five feet tall . a tall , handsome person enters a room , draws attention . a search for essential traits of a leader dominated the field of leadership studies until the late 1940 ’s , and remains common in popular discourse nowadays . the traits-centered approach has not fallen from studies of leadership , yet it has been broadened and makes more flexible . various studies show that tall men are often favored , and that corporate ceos are taller than average .
in 1919 , the economist john maynard keynes described the possibility of englishman in london using the phone to order goods , from around the world , to be delivered to his house in the afternoon . but today it is different because it is becoming faster and thicker . what globalization , they know , could be defined as interdependence at intercontinental distances , is as old as human history . witness the migration of peoples and religions , or even trade along the antiquated silk route that bound medieval europe and asia . after its first trans-atlantic cable in 1868 , it could interact in a minute .
one might argue , of course , that post-crisis regulatory reform ultimately addresses the problem of periodic systemic risk and returns to a more comfortable world of relatively stationary risk without periodic imbalances . but i would not be a bet on this point at all . the historical evidence suggests that systemic risk remains persistent and resilient to regulatory efforts to eradicate it . for example , a endowment or pension fund might consider basing its payoff decisions more on long-run , potential shock-adjusted average returns than on a simple weighted average of past returns or an end-period of asset values ( normal practice now ) . beyond that , financial innovation would proceed along with regulatory arbitrage .
either technology will rely on a national electric grid that uses low-emissions forms of electricity generation , such as wind , solar , nuclear , or coal-fired power plants that capture and store carbon-dioxide emissions . all of these technologies will require public financing , alongside private investment . third , america ’s recovery will be impossible unless there is also a strategy for getting the government ’s own finances back in order . george w. bush ’s vision of economic policy was to cut taxes three times while simultaneously increasing spending on war . the result is a massive budget deficit to expand to gargantuan proportions within the coming year ( perhaps $ 1 trillion ) under the value-added tax for recession , bank bailouts , and short-term fiscal stimulus measures .
judging by the 2005 declaration of principles surrounding international election observations , credible surveillance requires fulfilling five criteria . first , committed observers must be autonomous – financially and otherwise – in their relationships to the host country . second , observers must be granted unrestricted access to all the different aspects and phases of the electoral process , as well as to all the technologies involved . third , observers must contend with no constraints in meeting with all authorities and political actors . fourth , scientists must guard against the pressures or threat of any government ’s retaliation .
they should run not just on time , but , in good times , and at reasonable intervals . more important , they should be affordable , too , and reasonably wealthy . as the yardsticks grows longer , it becomes self-evident that the most easily measured component , punctuality , is , by definition , one of many desirable features , and not necessarily the most significant . even more important , they should be made affordable , as well as reasonably convenient . an example is relevant to the politics of public services , which dominates debate in many countries , because it lies at the heart of large problems in the two government budgets ( and slicing them back ) and in taxation ( and reducing them ) .
we saw relief workers throw packets of food and clothing from the top trucks , triggering a rebellion . but the people told us that they often miss , and supplies soil up to thousands of feet or more in deep forests . the distribution is haphazard , and uncoordinated , has done with little thought . we have seen superb helicopters attempt bite ; landing is impossible in most places . hustlers thrive , weak watch passively .
in fact , the process of “ directed technological change , ” in which bold goals are set , milestones are identified and timelines are put in place , is all the more common than many realized . the example of atomic bombs might look something of a noxious , yet it raises an important question : if we ask governments and scientists to collaborate on the technology of war , should n’t we do the same to save the planet from carbon pollution ? in carrying out the manhattan project ( to make the atomic bomb during world war ii ) and the first moon landing , the american government set a remarkable engineering goal , established a bold timetable , and committed the financial resources needed to get the job done . the information-technology revolution that has brought us computers , smartphone phones , gps , and much more was built on a series of industries and government roadmaps . in both cases , such scientists and engineers delivered on time .
to be sure , good relations with europe hold priority over russia , particularly economic links , human contacts , and some social interactions . but anti-americanism is simply irrational for a russia that stands only to gain from an alliance with a world economic and political leader . moreover , russia will benefit from active foreign-policy engagement with the eu ’s leading members as well . yet a strategic alliance with the eu over its foreign and security policies remains unrealistic and inefficient . europeans will most likely continue to grow weaker rather than stronger , in this field .
specifically , these countries need help to improve drug delivery and manage chronic diseases , such as cancer and diabetes , that impose an immense burden on their economies . and with the emergence of new diseases like zika – and revisitic plague – there is little question that much of humanity remains at the mercy of biology . specifically , these countries need help to improve drug delivery and manage chronic diseases like cancer and diabetes , which impose an immense burden on their economies . to prevent such catastrophic outcomes , we need a comprehensive approach to fostering health-care delivery in low – and middle-income countries . moreover , it is helping to mitigate globalization by facilitating the spread of communicable diseases .
that , in turn , would create room for a more unified tax response among countries , thereby reducing the super-rich ’ capacity to evade taxation by switching location . the advantage of the income-tax rate increases is that they could rely not only on current-account revenues , but on some average of income over several years , and could permit deductions for investment , thereby sharing some of the features with a wealth tax without penalizing those who save more to accumulate more wealth . moreover , a long-progressive plan legislating one or a few countries today , before any substantial effect on real tax payments occurs , might help promote an international dialogue about appropriate future policy towards inequality . and , to be sure , there are wealth taxes already available , instituting them now to take effect only over the future , and only if inequality becomes a lot worse off – would preempt a perception that the rules had changed in the end of the game . piketty ’s book makes an invaluable contribution to our understanding of the dynamics of contemporary inequality .
many spent years in jail for daring to speak out against china ; and , as i grew older , i vowed to speak out , too . my first stint in chinese prisons was tied to work that i began in early 2000s printing and distributing tibetan-language books . i viewed these texts as important readings of tibetan politics , culture , and religion . yet chinese authorities , by contrast , viewed them as challenging to their rule , punishing me accordingly . as the 2008 olympics approach , i began to look for new ways to record my people ’s history .
warsaw – the massive protests in warsaw have made headlines worldwide in recent weeks . yet a new law enables polish president andrzej duda to replace up to three-fifths of the supreme court ’s injustices , including chief justice himself , in 2018 alone . poles are demonstrating against legislation enacted by the ruling law and justice ( pis ) party to lower the retirement age of the supreme court ’s ruling , effectively empowering every judiciary to pack the judicial system with its own tame justices . the polish constitution stipulates an independent judiciary , and sets the terms of the terms of the first supreme court president at six years . that means that judges can not be stripped of legislation , at least not constitutionally .
the most recent proof : mauricio funes , the standard bearer of the fmln , – until not long ago – prevailed in marxist patterns of guerilla movements – just prevailed in el salvador ’s presidential election . this is remarkable in a country that for as long as anyone remembers has been ruled , by hook , or through an entirely reactionary oligarchy . back in his radical days , ken livingstone , london ’s former mayor , famously quipped that if voting had changed anything , they would have rescinded it . in latin america , it turns out , elections actually do shake things up . if the salvadoran left ’s close electoral victory is accepted peacefully , as it has so far been , this means that latin america has truly come a long way .
the problem is that the promise of genuine “ unique information ” information comes with the reality of vulnerability to deceitfulness . this ’s why channeling the dispersed knowledge into new ventures requires a regulatory framework that favors a genuinely enlightened and honest one . “ [ t ] here lies beyond question as a body of highly relevant but unorganized knowledge , which can not possibly be called a scientific in the sense of familiarity with common rules : expertise in particular circumstances and place . it is with respect to this that practically every individual has some advantage over all others in that he possesses unique information about which beneficial uses might be invented , but of which use can be made only when decisions depending on it , or are made with his active collaboration . this ’s why channeling the dispersed knowledge into new ventures requires a regulatory framework that favors a genuinely enlightened and honest .
in reality , each is gearing up behind the scenes for “ copenhagen 2 , ” and what those involved in the negotiating process are calling “ an even bigger slog . ” with more than a thousand points still still to be agreed , all policymakers with whom i ’ve ’ve spoken with recently say they can not see how a meaningful deal might be reached in december in copenhagen . even if some sort of communiqué paved the way for an eventual “ copenhagen 2 ” and election countries like the united kingdom will put pressure on one – it is hard to believe that it will contain sufficient detail or reflect the proper level of commitment that has the impact so badly needed . perhaps the only people not the suddenly depressed are those disappearing . “ copenhagen 1 ” was always bound to fail , in part because , and this may sound strange at first , everything about climate change is everything .
that is why addressing consumption bias must top priority over the coming years . more people are arriving at the same conclusion , and those from us championing evs as one answer to climate change are optimistic that a tipping point is approaching . sales of electric cars have increased dramatically in recent years ; some 750,000 recorded people were registered in 2016 , nearly half of them in china . still , it is human nature to resist change , and many prospective purchasers remain hesitant . several changes are needed to ensure that ev usage and sales are still up .
the wto ’s success in ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s adjudication system reflects its widespread acceptance . a focus on preferential agreements would fragment the global trading system rather than integrate it together . that , in essence , constitutes a remarkable advance in global governance . the gradual dismantling of the wto would also erode its credibility in fulfilling its key role as an adjudicator of trade disputes . even when wto decision-making has produced serious adverse adverse side effects for a trading partner , it has generally been accepted .
it is as if they can not see how these reforms can help restart an economy with deep-seated structural problems . indeed , the energy market – most important , the market for natural gas – and the tourist rentals market have been liberalized , and the process for acquiring investment licenses has been streamlined . all of this has been accomplished in the face of fierce criticism by opposition parties , particularly the those who have governed greece during the previous 30 years , and are thus responsible for driving italy to break it down . this enables the government to continue on the second stage : coping with skyrocketing unemployment and putting the economy back on a path to growth . now that the greek government has delivered on its outsized bailout deal , it is time for its european and international counterparts to conclude its first revision of the program .
madrid – tackling climate change poses a monumental challenge , but foremost global powers ’ leader , continues to wash his hands . in early november , us president donald trump gave official notice of america ’s withdrawal from the paris climate agreement , thereby affirming the decision he announced in may 2017 . notice came as early as the deal allowed , and withdrawal would become effective the day after america ’s presidential election in november 2020 . accordingly , the united states would become the only country in the world that is not a party to the pact . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
for starters , it is a genuine stretch to bemoan america ’s corporate-earnings status quo . trends in corporate tax – which stood at just 3.5 % of national income in the third quarter of 2016 – support a similar verdict . commerce department statistics shows that after-tax corporate profits ( technically , after-tax profits from current production , stock - and depreciation-accounting distortions ) have stood at a solid 9.7 % of national income in the third quarter of 2016 . far from anemic , the current gdp share of after-tax earnings bodes well above the post-1980 average of 7.6 % . whereas that is down from the peak of a 11 % peak hit in 2012 – owing to tepid economic growth , which typically places some drag on earnings margins – it hardly attests to a chronic earnings problem .
now anti-depressants -- global brands with home names -- are the problem . in england , prescriptions for anti-depressants now match valium at its peaks in 1979 . the widespread prescription for drugs for the troubling mind has always ended badly ; the right back to the days of opiates and till cocaine , up through bromides , barbiturates , and tranquilizers : all prove to be highly addictive drugs , but only after years of denial have physicians admit that this is so . indeed , the last ten years saw a three-fold increase in prescriptions . it is now obvious that today ’s anti-depressants are not havel 's drugs they have been touted as saying .
to be sure , such measures will be unpopular with labor and the correct response here to the elimination of large wage taxes so that money wages can rise without an offsetting fall in competitiveness . indeed , most of the high rate of unemployment nowadays has shown little feedback from the currency collapse into inflation . in a budget this pays for the favorable effect of devaluation on government oil revenues . in venezuela , with unemployment at 20 % , the same is widely expected . the best outcome , of course , is for chavez to shift the economy to a less exposed external position with large ( 50 % at least ) of real depreciation .
washington , dc – millions of the world ’s poorest people face severe water-related challenges – from lack of access and absence to disputes over supplies – with profound consequences for their security , economic development , and environmental sustainability . consider this : nearly one billion people worldwide lack access to safe drinking water , and 2.5 billion lack adequate sanitation capacity . the costs are staggering : thousands of child deaths each day , and the annual economic losses estimated at $ 260 billion – more than double the total amount of official development assistance ( oda ) . making matters worse , climate change will render water supply more erratic , with increasingly frequent and intense floods and droughts imposing significant human and economic costs , and impede development in poor countries . as world leaders design the development agenda to succeed the millennium development goals ( mdgs ) , which expire in 2015 , addressing these issues should be a top priority .
but all public actors , not just policing , must respond to urban problems . first and foremost , mayors should be mobilized as mediators , because they are on the front lines in implementing urban policy . when such policies fail , citizens hold mayors accountable . but mayors are also the most knowledgeable behind communication linkages within their communities , and so are the most able to organizing effective partnerships to address and resolve local issues . events in france also point to needs , on the european level , to foster policies against discrimination and that promote social equality .
in america , time on the welfare state is now limited , and people who have not worked for years suddenly have to do so . at the same time , the welfare state is being undermined , which is precisely what it has been doing . in europe , by contrast , the problem of unemployment remains a “ good ” job . replacing earnings through unemployment ( following tax adjustments ) hits a whopping 70 % and up . america ’s example demonstrates that it may .
zurich – repeatedly in the last few years , there have been calls for a revival of civilian nuclear power . roughly 16 % of global energy needs ( up to 25 % in highly industrialized countries ) now meet electric power . yet , that renaissance never seems to be coming . indeed , of the bottom 200 countries around the world , just 30 use nuclear power . in july 2010 , a total of 439 nuclear plants with a net installed capacity of 373.038 gw ( e ) were connected with various national electricity grids , some 1.2 gw ( e ) more than in early 2006 .
denver – the united states constitution , which turned 225 years old last summer , is a remarkable documentary : the texas-based text provisions written at the eighteenth-century century continue to guide twenty-first-century governance . article ii of the us constitution stipulates presidential powers that require the senate ’s “ advice and consent , ” ” including the nomination of senior representative officials . probably nobody , 225 years ago , had the idea that the number of us officials deemed to require senate confirmation would ultimately exceed 1,400 , or that senate confirmation would involve a vetting process that often lasts years to complete . in many cases , the process will not come quite enough . the us will be reminded of the consequences of that in the coming weeks , as us president barack obama fills senior positions at his second-term administration .
a crucial dimension of the current standoff over ukraine is energy , and it raises the same issue for european solidarity . for example , in response to an embargo affecting a particular country , other eu members would draw on their reserves , increase their own output , pay more for imports , or cut consumption some of them . but doing so would require eu member states to respect the security of supply as a matter of common concern , not as an issue that every country must address on its own . as a recent study by bruegel showed , the eu as a whole could , with some efforts , dispense with gas imports from russia . but that sense of solidarity has been consistently short of the eu ’s energy-policy debate .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present over many years to come . the us justice department under president donald trump appears to be proceeding with tradition . no one is surprised that trump himself is deploying every orwellian equipment at his disposal to thwart the current impeachment inquiry into the us house of representatives .
hypothetically , switching off the lights for one hour would cut co2 emissions from coal-fired power plants globally . but while everyone everywhere cut all housing lighting , and this translated entirely to co2 reductions , this would be the equivalent of china pausing its co2 emissions in less than four minutes . moreover , over the earth hour , any significant drop in electricity demand would entail reduced co2 emissions over their hour , but would be offset by the surge from burning coal or gas stations to restoring electricity supplies in the event of recovery . as the united kingdom ’s national grid operators have discovered , the tiny drop in electricity consumption does not translate into less energy being pumped into the grid , and thus would not cut emissions . indeed , over the course of a single year , earth hour will cause emissions to rise .
the institute of ’s work appears to have been at the heart of facilities reading cerebral activity . but it also apparently oversees all types of construction projects on a massive clutch of land adjacent to the us federal security service ’s headquarters ( fsb ) – the kgb ’s successor organization – and the federal protection bureau . following the organization ’s 2013 election in which the kremlin-backed membership candidates did n’t fill the day , the government announced major reforms , including a three-year moratorium on ran elections . it subsequently decided that to ensure “ fairness , ” ” ” ” the government would approve all of the candidates , despite being academics . by keeping in the eye of the scientific-funding pathway , we arrive at the prestigious russian academy of sciences ( hungary ) , which held elections last week .
so , instead of providing context , depth , and analysis , newspaper newspapers have been blasting out headlines that stimulating prurience or outrage . more fundamentally , the rush to beat tv by breaking stories has weakened the journalists ’ incentive to perform due diligence , in the context of researching stories and verifying claims . this reinforces the incentive to engage in sensational speculation , however baseless , as has occurred in sridevi ’s case . airing views is the cheapest way to fill a broadcast hour ; ranting anchors score peak trps . the result has been disturbing , to put it mildly .
washington , dc – an informed view is sharply divided about how the next 12 months will play out on behalf of the global economy . those focusing on the emerging markets highlight accelerating growth , with some forecasts projecting a 5 % rise in world output . still others , concerned about problems in europe and the united states , remain more pessimistic , with growth projections closer to 4 % and some are even inclined to see a japanese-style “ double-dip ” recession . this is an interesting debate , but it misses the larger picture . in response to the 2007-2009 crisis , governments set themselves up by some of the most generous bailouts that have ever seen major financial institutions .
consider this : france has the world ’s highest fertility rate ( just under two children per woman ) , even ahead of booming ireland . yet , despite this , eurobarometer polls repeatedly show that the french are , by far , the most “ pessimistic ” of all europeans when it comes to their country ’s future . one puzzling and often overlooked feature of france , which elected nicolas sarkozy as his next president , and that now seems poised to give his political allies a powerful parliamentary mandate , is its mixed mix of private optimism and public pessimism . to be sure , that rate alone is not enough to support france ’s current populists ; on the contrary , it ’s far stronger than its european neighbors and nearly equal to that of america . so how is it that those who are so negative about their common future as nations go about confidently building their private futures inside their families ?
new york – a reception in the united states , and in other advanced economies , thomas piketty ’s recent book capital in the twenty-first century attests to growing anxiety about rising inequality . his book lends further weight to an already overwhelming body of evidence regarding the region ’s soaring share of income and wealth at the very top . piketty also sheds a new light on the “ reform ” sold by ronald reagan and margaret thatcher in the 1980s as growth enhancers from which all would benefit . piketty ’s book , moreover , sets out a different perspective on the those 30 , or so years that followed the great depression and world war ii , viewing that period as a historic anomaly , perhaps motivated by the unusual social cohesion that cataclysmic events could stimulate . in that era of rapid economic growth , prosperity was widely shared , with all groups advancing , but with those at the bottom seeing larger percentage gains .
in a fully flexible economy , this drop in measured gdp ( and the concomitant increase in unemployment ) could be avoided if the resources formerly employed in selling imported consumer goods could quickly be used to generate exports . in the case of greece and portugal , for example , the capital-goods industry might absorb some more unemployed retailers . but retail shop clerks and car dealers can not easily transform the specialized and highly skilled workers needed in modern manufacturing . this fall in gdp , though a natural consequence of lower import imports , is often mistaking it as something to be avoided because it seems to indicate that output falls below its “ potential . ” but shops and showrooms can not be transformed into tourist attractions , whose capacity will remain limited until sufficient time passes to build new hotels , recreational facilities , etc .
japan was the only advanced economy to relax fiscal policy in 2013 . most observers would agree that the levels of government debt are uncomfortably high in many advanced economies ; thus , it would be prudent for policymakers to discuss strategies to bring them down . but this year , the united kingdom seems the only one preparing to tighten its policy – and that is , assuming that recent political ruptures have not modified its fiscal orientation , reflected in portuguese chancellor angela merkel ’s downfall . the output gap in advanced economies has everybody but vanished , inflation is picking up , and world economic growth forecasts are forecast to have been its strongest since 2010 . but , just as fiscal policy was tightening when cyclical economic conditions seemed to call for easing , it is now being eased when conditions seem like a call for tightening .
second , the 70-year period that began with widespread automobile diffusion – during which one could get nearly anywhere in the typical metropolitan area in at a half-hour or less – is over . before widespread automobile ownership , land prices depended on location , with proximity to a central city , or on a local railroad station , carrying a premium . now , with severe congestion from traffic in major cities to a crawl , the soil gradient in housing prices is steep once again . and , with the demand high and housing supply fixed – at least in the short run – prices go up , at least in the short run . perhaps this steepening of the location gradient might have been delayed for a decade had we been willing to shift to denser residential patterns .
in fact , for the eurozone as a whole , the long run seems to have arrived – and the us economy is still alive and kicking it down . john maynard keynes famously said , “ in the long run , we are all dead . ” that may be true , on a long enough timeline , . but it is no excuse to reject longer-term considerations . with austerity , that is , deficit reduction , once a recession has ended – a recovery could take longer to become consolidated ; but , as soon as it is , economic performance is even more stable , because the government ’s bill of account is sustainable .
likewise , societies that defer instant consumption to save and invest for the future would enjoy higher future incomes and more retirement security . second , the decline in saving and investment flows is global in scale . a country like china , with its high saving rate that exceeds its local investment needs , can promote investment in other parts of the world that save less , more than that of low-income africa and the rest of asia . ( when american economists advise china to boost consumption and cut saving , they are merely parting the wrong habits of american culture to which saves and invests far too little for america ’s future . ) a famous psychological experiment , detected that young children capable of resisting the immediate temptation to consume a marshmallow , and thus to get two marshmallows in the future , has been likelier to thrive as adults than to those that can scarcely do .
but these “ green-energy ” bikes amounts to the victory of empty gestures over substance and reason – which makes them the sadly high representative of cop21 alone . my peer-reviewed research paper , published in global policy , shows that the 2016-2030 promises on cutting co2 emissions will reduce temperatures by 2100 by just 0.05 ºc ( 0.09 ºc ) . this makes the agreement the agreement the costliest in history . but even if the promised emissions cuts continue throughout the century , the paris agreement would cut global temperature rises by just 0.17 ˚c c. scientists from the massachusetts institute of technology find similar reductions in temperature mitigation . the agreement reached in paris contains promises that , if enacted between now and the 2030 target date , would cost the world economy at least $ 1 trillion annually – and possibly twice as much – if policymakers make inefficient policy choices .
shut down on the transfers of military technology and hardware in the united states ever since the tiennamen square incident of 1989 ; feeling increasingly “ encircled ” by a “ redefined ” japan-american alliance ( agreed in april 1996 ) ; china is particularly anxious to upgrade and strengthen its military might , and swift process . in fact , russia , seeing its gross domestic product fall 40 % since communism ’s end , needs to maintain its defense industry as one of the few sources of national income . the added worry , for both russia and asia , is that the russian government is losing control of the unofficial , black market flow of arms to china . intervention by two american aircraft carriers in taiwan ’s straits in march 1996 humiliated the people , who were forced to suspend intimidating taiwan with its missile tests . despite the kremlin ’s initial denials , china early this year bought two modern destroyers , along with deflationary anti-ship missiles from russia .
the left , for its part , unanswered , is what comes next . but there is nothing characteristic about the pressures that are likely to continue squeezing american families long after november 6 . both obama and romney have been running the risk of painting themselves into a corner when it is moving to china . in fact , china bashers would typically change their resort after a presidential election . that could take all of us into a slippery slope .
they are the people , in some ways lacking the full citizenship that demanded it , and who redefined the political order by gaining it . but rising individualism – a focus on one of our own aspirations and economic prosperity – in many countries poses stubborn obstacles to realizing that vision . indeed , the utter lack of a sense of solidarity among so many people – horrifyingly evident in america ’s health-care debate – is now undermining a very foundation on what a modern democratic society is . today , the great challenge is to calm our fears that our traditions are being undermined ; to reach out to people who are coming in our lands from other countries ; and to find ways to reshape our political ethic around the kernel of human rights , equality , non-discrimination , and democracy . if we succeed , we could create the sense that we all belong together , though our rationale for believing so may be different .
but , halappanavar and her husband then reported that ireland is a catholic country ; the fetus still has a heartbeat , so the process has been out of the question . irish abortion-rights activists point out that , legally , life in a fetus ignores the mother ’s life , but takes precedence over a mother ’s health , a distinction that american abortion opponents have long sought to replicate in the united states . halappanavar has , on the other hand , drawn down by a western stereotype of eastern societies as preserves of superstition and religious extremism . halappanavar has , however , died from the september 11th ticemia , which her family is certain would not have developed if the term had been conducted . the protests in ireland placed prime minister enda kenny on the spot , with activists there , like those in india , arguing that halappanavar had died as a result of a theocratic approach to health care .
this explains why park has sought closer ties to china , even though south korea ’s natural regional partner is democratic japan . both japan and south korea can not change the past , and both can not be expected to do so . but , to some extent , historical legacies can gain excessive influence , overwhelming leaders ’ capacity to make rational political choices . that explains why park has looked for closer ties with china , even though south korea ’s natural regional partner is democratic japan . one source of hope stems from abe ’s landslide election ’s recent snap general election , which gives him the political capital to reach park with a grand bargain : if japan expresses remorse more clearly for its militaristic past , south koreans will agree to leave historical grievances against official policy .
munich – as america ’s various rescue plans take hold , its stock markets are recovering somewhat . bank shares are rebounding in particular , and some banks have even been made successful in repaying at least part of their allocated capital . but , as i point out in my new book kasino-kino-kinsmus book , this may be only a temporary improvement in expectations rather than a sign of permanent recovery , because the size of banks ’ hidden losses at their balance sheets is probably enormous . according to the international monetary fund ’s most recent estimates , the total write-offs on financial claims in this crisis will be equivalent to $ 7,05 trillion for the united states , japan , the european zone , and the united kingdom , of which the american person would have had to absorb the $ 2.7 trillion already . the s & p 500 price/earnings ratio is gradually returning to its long-term 16 average .
a state-led developmental model in bolivia is doomed to fail because it requires strong institutions , universal citizenship , and the rule of law . none of them is likely to be found in bolivia today , which means that the money that is concentrated in the state will undoubtedly be reallocated via patrimonial and clientelistic means , siphoned off through corruption , and succumbing to that of all sorts ’s social pressures . whatever remains for high public investment is certain to have been wasted , because the projects typically yield cost-benefit analysis when financing comes from easy money , generously supplying the mother ’s nature . thirty years after bolivia ’s national revolution of 1952 ’s per capita income remained basically the same , at more than 50 % of the population . conceived , perhaps with its best intentions , morales ’s model gives hope to bolivia ’s poorest ; but it does merely pave the way for frustrated hopes ­ – also nothing new in bolivia .
still , most french citizens remain deeply concerned about the threat of terrorism not only from abroad , but from people living in spain , often with french citizenship . and a similar fear about homegrown extremism can be observed in many other european countries . in recent years , some of those drawn to islamist-inspired right-wing extremism have carried out attacks with highly rudimentary instruments , from cars and delivery trucks to knives . although violent extremists express an ultra-minority within the muslim population , their acts have fueled a rising mistrust in french society . worse still , a successful military campaign against isis raises new fears of violent extremists returning from syria .
achieving the needed educational transformation will require a lot more funding than is currently on offer . as it stands , the world ’s annual financing gap for education amounts to almost $ 40 billion . while eight of the top ten hosting countries , including several low – and middle-income countries , have shouldered significant costs , despite a strain on educational systems to ensure that refugees attend preschool alongside nationals , most countries are either excluding refugees from the national educational systems , or assign it to separate facilities . that entrenches disadvantage , and hampers social integration , is a major factor . the two landmark global compacts on migration and refugees adopted last december highlight the way to address this challenge .
the international monetary fund credits asian intra-regional trade as the main factor behind its recent export boom and robust economic growth . africa , with its huge and often untapped markets , must follow the same path . africans alone must tackle those issues , but our international partners have an important role to play . the debate over the inability of international aid to produce development , combined with the current financial crisis , has added weight to arguments over development aid . but the argument should not be about whether to supply aid – nobody can question the many successes that aid has delivered , or its significance in providing a safety net for those who would otherwise be left alone to suffer .
london – when the united kingdom announced earlier this month that it agreed to become the china-led asian infrastructure investment bank ( aiib ) , most of the headlines had focused not on the news itself , but on the friction that the decision generated between the uk and the united states . the white house issued a statement urging the british government to “ use its voice to pressure its acceptance of high standards . and one high-level us administration official was quoted accusing the uk of “ the continued accommodation of china , which is not the best way to involve a rising power . ” in fact , it is the americans who are advocating the wrong approach . in the uk , the diplomatic spat has served as an occasion for the british press to air criticism of those who believe that the government should adopt a stronger stance vis-à-vis china .
from the point of remedies , the socialists offer nothing more than keynesian solutions now espoused by the right . ever since george w. bush showed the way in terms of bank nationalization , vast public spending , industrial bailouts and budget deficits , the socialists have been left without wiggle spaces . the socialists are blamed by greedy financiers , but who do n’t ? indeed , it is difficult to find any persuasive analysis of today ’s left beyond anti-capitalist slogans . french president nicolas sarkozy seeks to rekindle growth through his protectionist defensiveness , “ national industries ” and huge investments in public infrastructure , so what more may be the socialists are asking for ?
core countries , led by germany , distrust over-indebted countries ’ determination to pursue reform if their financing conditions are relaxed . moreover , they object to key changes in the eurozone ’s economic governance . they also demand faster implementation of the necessary changes to the eurozone ’s economic-policy governance to create a more stable and hospitable environment for fiscal consolidation and reform . the burden of adjustment can not fall exclusively on deficit countries – unless , that is , a moral component of “ penalty ” concerns . a prolonged recession , punctuated by high rates or prohibitive – borrowing costs , makes achieving either fiscal or reform targets becoming increasingly difficult , if not impossible .
moreover , turkey seems to have little interest in what its asian allies are thinking . for example , it recently raised eyebrows within nato yet again by purchasing new-generation russia ’s s-400 antiaircraft battery . this has not bode well for any future peace process anywhere in the world . after all , western countries will need turkey to counterbalance russian-us , whose broader strategic agenda goes well beyond the middle east . as historians look home to the conflict in syria , they will marvel at both former presidents barack obama and donald trump for relentlessly pursuing isis .
the uk is simply smart when it nurtured its own interests by cooperating with china . one of the rare positive consequences of the 2008 financial crisis has been the elevation of the g-20 ’s global role ; in principle , it is a far more representative forum for international leadership than it was before the g-7 ever . a new g-7 needs to be created within the g-20 , thereby giving china a level of influence that reflects its economic weight and calls for it to assume a commensurate share of global responsibility . space at the table for china might be achieved if european countries , signaling their commitment to a common currency , agreed to surrender their individual seats in exchange for a single representing a full monetary union . there is , however , a downside to the g20 ’s emergence : a large number of participants can make it difficult to reach agreements and get things done .
that leaves a range of possibilities for choosing the next wbg president . perhaps it could choose a dual national or immigrant like former wbg president james wolfensohn , an australian who has become america ’s american citizen . the american could pick an america that appeals to other countries : kim , for example , has touted his korean origins during his 2012 post as a post campaign . or it could return a un-american candidate from an allied country . importantly , the nominee enjoys trust in the us and most other countries and can reconcile countries with the true spirit of multilateralism .
according to a report by the european council on foreign relations , china ’s belt and road initiative , with its own need for complex coordination , has created the perfect policy space for think tanks that “ tell the good china story ” to thrive . these include networks like silk ks and individual think tanks like the institute of charhar , which also recently established the “ china-us relations committee . ” in terms of shadowy influence-peddling , china ’s actions have been particularly consequential . chinese president xi jinping has explicitly emboldened his country , ’s think tanks , to “ advance the chinese narrative globally . ” and , in many cases , the china-based think tanks have become instruments for expanding the country ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s sphere of influence .
“ higher oil prices are here to stay , ” says the american economic forecaster allen sinai . “ [ t ] hat has to subtract growth and could cause core inflation to pick up . ” world oil prices crossed $ 40 a barrel in mid-summer , and has since climbed to the real mid - $ 50 ’s . today ’s oil prices are still only two-thirds the real peak reached during the 1979 iranian revolution , and futures markets expect oil prices to drop back and settle at perhaps $ 45 a barrel . but today ’s high level of oil prices has led forecasters to begin reining in their expectations for economic growth .
and , owing to increased us scrutiny , chinese foreign direct investment ( fdi ) in america has already imploded by 80 % since its june 2017 level . now , new legislative drafts are threatening to bar america ’s public pension funds from investing in chinese firms , curtailing chinese venture capital investment in the us , and forcing some chinese firms to delist from american stock exchanges altogether . the us has also grown more suspicious of us-based chinese students and academic scholars , who may be in a position to infuse us technological know-how or engage in outright espionage . cross-border data and information flows will also be restricted , raising concerns about a “ splinternet ” between america and china . and china , for its part , will increasingly be seeking to circumvent the us-controlled international financial system and insulate itself from america ’s weaponization of the dollar .
next year will almost surely see a massive rise in america ’s corporate defaults , even as many firms entered into recession with their relatively strong balance sheets . with tax revenues collapsing as a result of falling home prices and incomes , scores of american municipalities could fare well in receivership , as new york city did in the 1970 ’s . america ’s debt hardly looks like a bargain right now , even without a sinking dollar . state and municipal finances are in even worse shape , too . far-flung military misadventures continue to stretch countries ’ fiscal resources , with the costs potentially hitting many trillions of dollars , according to a recent study by linda bilmes and joseph stiglitz .
collectively , their $ 55 billion in earnings outstripped the full national income of more than 100 countries . to put these astronomical numbers on perspective , i had gabriel attempted to certify that to be among the top nine earners in the united states , you had to pull in at least $ 150 per second – including time spent eating and sleeping – along the way . by doing so , how big are america ’s highest income earners , who make comparison , the world of the poorest individuals ? how much , say , are america ’s highest income earners , which make comparison with the world of the poorest individuals ? collectively , their $ 55 billion in earnings outstripped the full national income of more than 100 countries .
american power is , instead , perceived to be resting on a “ pillar of inspiration ” rather than a “ pillar of action . ” but soft power of inspiration is not the only ethical tradition in american foreign policy . for example , us secretary of state john quincy adams famously dismissed on independence day in 1821 that the united states “ goes free does not go offshore , in search of monsters to destroy . she is a champion and vindicator only of her own . she is a well-wisher to freedom and independence of any one .
on the other hand , it used the holocaust – which we would all agree was utterly horrific to suggest , as isaac bashevis singer – that there are parallels between the way the nazis treated jews and how we treat animals . the court ruled against united states-based animal-rights groups for the ethical treatment of animals to exhibit a of posters that juxtapose photos of the victims of the holocaust with photos of factory farms and at the slaughterhouses . posters bear the theme : “ to animals , all people are nazis ” – a polish-born line of the polish-born jewish writer isaac bashevis singer . in law , peta was on the other hand , not arguing that holocaust victims ’ fate was either banal or trivial . in the case of the court , germany ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s laws on freedom of speech did n’t protect peta ’s campaign , because to make “ the fate of the holocaust ’s victims ” seem banal and trivial ” as a offense against human dignity .
rather , they are fighting to protect their own interests and livelihoods , whether that is being served by a dairy farm , or running a government . as the us continually attempt to apply new technologies to enhance human and environmental wellbeing , this distinction is vital . avoiding the barriers to technological progress requires understanding and addressing its own downsides . for example , as machines become ever more capable , robots are replacing a growing pool of workers . it will not be long before those robots succeed not just to perform more complicated roles , but also to learn more quickly than workers can be trained .
this represents a potential loss of more than 10 % of the output gain for greece . moreover , a lack of export-led growth has made fiscal adjustment much more difficult to achieve . today , portugal stands at nearly € 20 billion ( $ 27.5 billion ) , with nearly 90 % of the going to greece . inadequate export growth thus turned greece ’s recession into a recession much longer and deeper than it otherwise might have been . if greek exports had risen at the same rate as those in portugal ( or spain ) , the recession would have ended italy ’s recession now .
given that 80 % of mexico ’s ’s total exports would go to the u.s. , the effects on mexico would have been economically crippling and politically destabilizing , leaving the country even less well equipped to do anything about illegal immigration . in other words , trump launched a trade weapon neither to address the commercial issue nor part of a legitimate sanctions regime like that imposed on russia following his illegal annexation of crimea in march 2014 . on the rare occasions when us trade sanctions were used on nontrade reasons , he was an act of last resort , as was the case with apartheid south africa , where they succeeded because they had multilateral backing . in contrast to the usmca , not to premised on the goal of resolving trade issues , trump ’s tariff pronunciamento have been a bald-faced effort to force the mexican government to solve america ’s own immigration problem . once trade actions have been used indiscriminately to advance non-trade objectives , the damage to the entire trading system is done – and may be enormous .
new delhi – according to the united nations population division , the world ’s human population hit seven billion on october 31 . after all , the un forecasts the world ’s population rises to 9.3 billion in 2050 , and surpass ten billion by the end of this century . as invariably happens whenever we approach such a milestone , this one produced a spike in conferences , seminars , and taught articles , including the usual dire malthusian predictions . by contrast , such forecasts misrepresent underlying demographic dynamics . the future we face is not one of too much population growth , but too little .
russia has offered to use what it calls its “ limited influence ” to persuade insurgent governments to collaborate . in exchange , the kremlin has pledged to support – but only after the constitution is changed would ukraine ’s national government in its reassertion of control over those regions , just as over its border with russia . indeed , the european union applies pressure on all parties , including russia , where it holds out the possibility that economic sanctions would be lifted as an eventual reward for the kremlin ’s ’s support in the peace effort . in theory , the talks – which are ongoing – are taking place between the government in kyiv and the separatist leaders . if , however , russia does have full control of separatist regions , and actively integrate them to its economy , as a paper gained by bild suggests , the kremlin can no longer be seen as outside a party , attempting to leverage its uncooperative ally .
nothing reveals the bankruptcy of the united states in the region better than the contrast between america ’s more sober use of power in the first gulf war in 1991 and hubris and the deceit of the iraq war today . by 1991 , america forged the most formidable international coalition since world war ii , and led it into a full-scale legitimate war aimed at restoring the regional balance following saddam hussein ’s military invasion of kuwait . in 2003 , america went to war without its trans-atlantic alliance allies , after manipulating the false footprints . in doing so , america embarked on a preposterous grand strategy that focused no less on simultaneously dismantling iraq ’s tyrannical regime , restructuring the entire middle east , destroying al-qaeda and helping democracy take root throughout the arab world . the result has been a utter failure : military defeat and severe degradation of america ’s moral stand .
the value of these accounts would fluctuate with the market rather than rest on a defined-benefit scheme that ensures a fixed real sum of the resources available to retirement . one of the oddballs ’ claims made in debates over social insurance now roiling the world ’s richest countries is that government-funded defined-benefit pension programs ( such as america ’s ’s ’s social-security system ) are outmoded . such programs were fine ; the argument goes , for much of the industrialized economies of the great depression and post-world war ii generations , yet they have become obsolete in today ’s high-technology , networked , post-industrial economies . advocates of this argument propose a different model . just as corporations today are much happier encouraging workers ’ pensions by contributing to their employees ’ private-sector accounts , so , nowadays , governments should offer ( or require ) contributions to privately owned accounts .
indeed , greece ’s current plight , including the massive run-up in the debt-to-gdp ratio , has been largely the fault of the misguided troika programs foisted onto it . does anyone in their right mind think that any country would voluntarily lay itself down by what greece has gone through , only to get a free ride by its creditors ? so it is not debt restructuring , but its absence ; it is its absence ; it is immoral . if europe has allowed these debts to move from the private sector to the public sector – a well-established pattern over the last half-century – it is europe , not greece – that should have borne the consequences . when there is moral hazard , it is on the part of the lenders – particularly in the private sector – who were bailed out repeatedly .
if europe , china , and other us trade partners were to retaliate in response to trump ’s ’s ’s tariffs that they would simply reduce their own gains from trade , without reaping any of the benefits of protectionism . so , neither scenario makes much sense today . while some european countries suffer from high levels of unemployment , there is nothing that protectionism can do for these expansionary fiscal or monetary policies ( the latter by the european central bank ) can not do a better job . neither europe nor china is particularly interested in depressing world prices for their imports , or in the resulting revenues . on trade , employment considerations are not an important topic , either .
this , in turn , is the view shared by many people in syria , even among sunni insurgents . thus , it is the view of the majority in america itself . that , too , is the view shared by most people in the us . what is also the view of most people in syria . maybe it is even the view of obama himself , which is playing for time , desperate to turn over the approval of the attacks on syria to the american congress .
but we tend to retain into adulthood equal opinions of god that we have shaped into childhood . and , with such a target , it is not very hard to poke holes and pile up in mockery . an old man with long beard watches over us , and most of us maintain a pretty literal view of the stories about his son told in the bible ’s new testament . it is this god that atheists like dawkins and hitchens strike . leave aside the fact that one can make an even stronger case against godlessness , recall the atrocities of atheist totalitarians in the twentieth century , and weigh an assault on those whose allegiance to literal interpretations of religious texts implies that they deny science and reason .
their preferred model calls for the un to provide funding and most other mission support , while allowing the au to retain its leadership role . however , the un has found it hard to attract sufficient types of volunteers for such a force , as foreign governments have acceded to sudanese demands that a hybrid force remain predominantly african . moreover , the complicated command chain envisaged by the au-un force recalls some of the worst features of nato-un operations in former yugoslavia during the 1990 ’s . however , in may , many western governments refuse to place their troops under the au , owing to its perceived vulnerabilities , and has conditioned further support for peacekeeping operations in darfur on the un ’s assuming control . at the same time , the elaborate command chain envisaged for the au-un force recalls some of the worst features of nato-un operations in former yugoslavia during the 1990 ’s .
new york – there was a striking similarity between european central bank president mario draghi ’s declaration of the recent meeting of the ecb ’s governing council and american federal reserve board chair janet yellen ’s first-ever such testimony to the us congress : both asserted that their policy decisions would consider only domestic conditions . in other words , the emerging-market countries , however subject to significant spillover effects from advanced economies ’ monetary policies , are on their own . indeed , in may 2010 , following the fed ’s announcement of a third round of quantitative easing ( qe ) , brazilian finance minister guido mantega accused advanced countries of waging a global “ currency war . ” after all , the advanced economies ’ policies drove large and volatile capital flows to major emerging markets , pressured their exchange rates , and hurt their export competitiveness , a phenomenon that brazilian president dilma rousseff later referred to as a “ capital tsunami . ” this , in turn , confirms what native-born authorities have known for a while .
riyadh , saudi arabia has drawn much of its criticism for its current role in the us-led war against houthi insurgents in yemen . these are simplistic claims , reflecting a significant misunderstanding of the kingdom ’s role in yemen – and , indeed , throughout the arab world , as well . riyadh , saudi arabia has been drawing much of its critics lately for taking action against the houthi insurgents in yemen . others have asserted that the fight against the houthis – a zaidi religious-political movement – is just one feature in the broader shia war that saudi arabia was supposedly waging . these are simplistic claims , reflecting a fundamental misunderstanding of the kingdom ’s role in yemen – and , indeed , throughout the arab world .
beyond answering that question , china ’s overly assertive policies have proven to be america ’s diplomatic boon in strengthening and expanding america ’s security arrangements in asia . south korea has tightened its military alliance with the u.s. , japan , backed down by trump from a move to withdraw america ’s marine airbase from okinawa ; and india , vietnam , indonesia , and the philippines , among others , have drawn closer ties with the us . to trump ’s credit , however , and to assume the mantle of leadership in asia , china must do more than pursue its own interests or include its potential rivals . most fundamentally , what is what is what china represents in terms of its values and ideas ? to be sure , china has shown itself to be adept at expressing its own national interests and play classical balance-of-power geopolitics .
and while women ’s employment rates have decreased as women have abandoned minimum-wage jobs , salaries , especially for store clerks , have risen sharply . given its dramatic success in the program , other countries follow suit . yet , rather than borrow to pay for expensive “ school-sets ” students , poles used their 500 + benefits instead . to be sure , lithuania introduced a less generous family 500 + in 2018 . those interested in promoting democracy in poland , hungary , and elsewhere in europe and beyond should acknowledge that many voters are purchase into the nationalist right ’s vision of a society-that advances national priorities , cares for the poor , and supports families .
peace comes just when a conflict becomes ripe for a resolution , which happens when the leaders of the principal protagonists are both willing and able to embrace a compromise . that may make the resolution easier to adopt but harder to negotiate . thus , it seems little wonder that no peace among israelis and palestinians remains possible , despite countless diplomatic undertakings by the un , the european union and its members , the un , and the parties themselves . to be fair , resolution 242 can not be blamed for this state of affairs . to be sure , different people read it in some ways , believing it perfectly .
instead , georgian long-term economic success will depend on exports to the russian market : neither georgian wine nor georgian fruit is required in the united states or italy . shevardnadze ’s emphasis on the btc pipeline also clearly reflects georgian pro-western strategic orientation . that , too , is unlikely to change under saakashvili . on the other hand , this should become less of a burden on bilateral relations , as russia itself moves closer to nato , the american and european union . the baku-tbilisi-ceyhan oil pipeline – which will bypass russia when it is finished – can not re-define the country ’s economic strategy to the extent that shevardnadze sought .
europe is not a monolith , but in many areas it can still act to coherently , even without full agreement . of course , none of this means that the international intervention in libya will succeed ; the situation in libya is far too complicated to forecast the outcome . but the lesson of the libyan intervention is that division can be overcome if the will do exist . what it does mean , however , is that europe finds a way to work when it comes to foreign policy . whether an outlier is germany or another eu member state , the division need not be fatally .
likewise , life expectancy at birth in ssa countries lagged 16 years behind the developing-country average of 14 years behind countries in south asia , and 21 years behind countries in east asia , latin america , and the caribbean . in combined gross enrolment in primary , secondary and higher education , ssa countries stood at 19 % less than the average for a developing country , 11 % below south asian countries , 29 % less than east asia and the pacific , and 32 % below latin america and the caribbean . what accounts for this broad-based underdevelopment ? until the late 1800 ’s , most of africa was unscrutinized and occupied by hunger-gatherers and practitioners of subsistence agriculture . soil was relatively abundant and allocated by tribal chiefs , without regard to next-generation property rights .
geneva – the recent sharp drop in food prices and the mounting anxiety about food security has triggered anxiety worldwide . seemingly unalterable factors generating these record-setting rises in food prices – a shift to higher protein diets in many countries , growing populations , greater recourse to biofuels , and climate change – suggest that elevated food prices are here to stay . in the absence of solutions that are holding up mounting pressures on supplies , hunger , and malnutrition will grow . the potential inability to put food on the table fills the deep-seated sense of foreboding . and , because the world ’s poorest people spend an increasing share of their incomes on food , they are the worst affected , raising the risk that years of progress to reduce poverty could be reversed .
this is no easy task at a time when societies are deeply divided by ethnicity , religion , or social status . as francis fukuyama pointed out , the evolution of a capable state that is accountable and ruled by law has been one of the crowning achievements of human civilization . it involves creating a shared sense of “ us , ” ” ” ” an imagined community on whose behalf the state acts . as harvard ’s lant pritchett , michael woolcock , and andrews argue , when inept organizations adopt “ best practices ” ” like financial-management systems and procurement rules , they become too distracted by decision-distorting protocols to do whatever they are established . and this is what the anti-corruption agenda often ends up stimulating : the creation of organizations that are more obsessed with abiding by new , burdensome processes than they deliver on their stated goals .
likewise , erdoğan has positioned himself as a sort of protector of turks ’ dignity and a sense of themselves as constituting a great power . by 2014 , he took over the presidential palace and encircled himself by a guard meant to evoke ottoman splendor , a somewhat transparent effort to compensate for his inability to shape regional developments as part of his – much less his country ’s – – – – interests . this approach contrasts sharply with that of russian president vladimir putin , who uses the sumptuous trappings and massive resources of his office , to assert credit to restored his country ’s national pride , particularly when attempting to convince ordinary russians to make economic sacrifices . with the syrian conflict ranting next door , however , erdoğan ’s claims are far from compelling . turkey faces a refugee crisis that dwarfs the one confronting europe ; the spread of terrorist attacks on its territory ; and heightened tensions with the kremlin over its downing of a russian warplane near its border with syria in november .
president bill clinton ’s trip to africa highlighted the americans -- typically most neglectful of africa ’s exceptionalism in deep crisis -- with the dramatic changes occurring across the continent . and at this year ’s world economic forum summit in south africa , almost 900 top business people from america , europe , asia , and africa met with a new political leadership to chart a way forward . of course intentions and outcomes are the two distinct matters . africa has a long road ahead . it is on most measures , a few decades , if not a century or more , behind advanced economies in economic organization and income levels .
as the romanian philosopher e. m. cioran puts it : “ as soon as man loses the faculty of indifference , which he becomes a potential murderer ; as if he transforms his idea into god the consequences are incalculable . ” the moment one believes that " better dead than red.one is in trouble . " dying to have one saved one or another , family or country might be justified as rational . but martyrdom is a different and dangerous way of life ; it is the elite , or the elite , that can be brought in . the contests of nationalism in the past 100 years ( with god on both sides ) almost annihilated europe , and the cold war could do just that .
while russia is in little position to develop an alternative international system ; on the contrary , if putin continues to pursue an outdated and antagonistic foreign policy , he may undermine that incumbent . at a time when the world faces so many destabilizing challenges , this would be bad for anyone . at a time when the world faces so many destabilizing challenges , this would be bad for anyone . if putin is serious about diversifying and enhancing russia ’s ’s ’s commodities-based economy , thereby improving his country ’s lives , he must attract advanced technologies and foreign investment – particularly from the west . for that , he must pursue democratic reforms , institutional regeneration , and renewed diplomatic ties with the west .
cambridge -- will labor unions ’ political resurgence throw a wrench into the wheels of globalization ? or will their growing strength serve to make globalization more sustainable by promoting great equality and fairness ? unions ’ rising influence is apparent in many recent events : german chancellor angela merkel ’s controversial deal to raise minimum wages for your post ; a few of america ’s presidential candidates have impeachment of business and immigration ; and the chinese leadership ’s nascent concerns about labor standards . along with their political clout , trade unions ’ intellectual respectability is also experiencing a renaissance . one way or another , labor unions stand out as big wildcard to the evolution of the us economic system in 2008 and beyond .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present over many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but that does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
yet ambitious plans to boost its hydro-generating capacity significantly by damming on international rivers have embroiled the country in its water dispute with most of its neighbors , even north korea . more broadly , china ’s dam-building passion has bedeviled two key developments . first , chinese firms now dominate a global hydropower-equipment export market . sinohydro alone , covering western equipment suppliers like abb , alstom , general electric , and siemens , claims to control half the market . second , the state-run hydropower industry ’s growing clout within china has led the government to campaign aggressively for offshore dam projects by offering low-interest loans to other governments .
new york – there are many recurring debates nowadays in american foreign policy , – for example , isolationism versus internationalism , and unilateralism versus multilateralism . this debate between the “ “ realists ” and “ the idealists ” is intense and longstanding . but no debate is more persistent than that between those who believe that american foreign policy ’s principal purpose should be to influence the outside behavior of other states and those who hold it to shape their internal nature . during the cold war , those who argued that the united states should try to “ roll back ” the soviet union , roll down its communist system , and replace it with a form of democratic capitalism . others viewed this as too dangerous in an era defined by nuclear weapons , and america ’s opted for policies of containment , working to limit the reach of soviet power and influence .
but , in her florence speech , may have promised british businesses something close to the current level of access to eu markets . until last month , may avoided defining this phrase , owing to fear from antagonizing her hardline europhobes party . if britain ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s transitional payments payments continued near the current level of € 10 billion for the last five or six years realistically demands to negotiate a durable trading relationship , they would add up to the same amount . she has also recognized that any privileged access to eu markets will require budget contributions , as happened in norway and switzerland . second , a britain budget offer would be a powerful tool to create “ deep and special partnerships ” with europe that may claims is her ultimate goal .
the eu-canada comprehensive economic and trade agreement ( usmca ) , for example , has taken seven years to hash out – and was almost scotched by belgium ’s wallonia region ’s parliament . may has no electoral mandate to pursue a hard brexit . many of britons ’ 52 % who voted for leave want to remain in the single market , as are everyone who voted for remain . even if may manages to strike an exit deal , she would be impossible to negotiate and ratify a sector-by-industry trade deal under two years . there can be no “ phased implementation ” of a trade deal that has not been finalized , which is why uk-based auto companies , financial institutions , and other firms that are now exporting to the eu should start preparing for the “ cliff edge ” that may wants to avoid .
a well-functioning private sector that creates adequate jobs , and the schools that educate a huge young population for today ’s ’s inter-connected world are prerequisites for progress . at the same time , the israeli-palestinian issue is critical for all the obvious reasons . for the first time , there is lively , smart debate about this issue , at the heart of the middle east ’s troubles . open societies seem to be incompatible with the closed economies of the day . this , in turn , is both enormously important and healthy .
in his numerous successful years as mayor of sibiu , iohannis distinguished outside the charismatic and shrewd politicians to whom romanian politicians are accustomed , prove to be a sober , laconic , and pragmatic administrator . but iohannis is is different not only in his political approach ; he is an evangelical lutheran in a predominantly orthodox country . the vigorous religious attacks mounted against him during the campaign highlighted a reality of ’s ’s salience to that class – although the orthodox leaders that backed ponta quickly adapted their rhetoric to foster tolerance and cooperation – during the campaign . the electorate seemed tired of the persistent confrontation between bavaria and ponta , and , more generally , of loud , ugly , and treacherous burlesque that their country ’s political scene became . this demeanor is part of what made it so difficult to predict his victory over the more talkative ponta .
some of these may be highly learned or cultivated , and courses that teach positive mental habits – like the appreciating things that matter or avoiding dwelling on setbacks – have demonstrated measurable improvements in wellbeing . the dalai lama recently helped to launch numerous such courses in london , developed by anti-happiness action , an organization that i helped find . whole societies , too , can try to amplify one another ’s happiness . british prime minister david cameron has introduced measuring happiness into the national statistics , and more recently , german chancellor angela merkel initiated a program to promote citizen ’s well-being . meanwhile , how countries are governed has an enormous impact on happiness .
more recently , there has been america ’s event-driven shift to collaboration with russia on ending syria ’s civil war , following a chemical-weapons attack that left at least 1,400 more people dead . the new world order gave way to order-less world , in which reliability and predictability have given way to rapid shift in focus and fickle commitments . all of this raises a fundamental question : does an overarching design for america ’s foreign-policy foreign policy ? if the outcome is to make its foreign policy less reliable and predictable , or , worse , susceptible to misunderstanding – then it certainly wo n’t happen . israel is , after all , a small part of this overall pattern – indeed , too .
it is also hard to trace back to the 1980 ’s the origins of the credit explosion and the spread of exotic and poorly understood financial instruments that lay at the heart of the 2007-2008 crisis . thatcher herself was no credit enthusiast , once famously said , “ i do n’t believe in a credit card . ” the financial services act of 1986 laid an end to the pure , self-regulation scheme . financial interests opposed this vigorously at the time , viewing it as the thin end of a dangerous wedge , although they could not have guessed only just as dense that a wedge ultimately became . most dangerous trends , including the upsurge of global imbalances and dramatic corporate financialization , have accelerated dangerously from around 2004 to perhaps 2004 .
alas , in view of us president barack obama ’s lamentable handling of syria ’s crisis , israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu may conclude that he has no option but to go it alone . indeed , iranian hardliners might welcome an israeli strike and even seek to provoke it , as a means to rallying iranian populations behind them . there is a better way to prevent nuclear proliferation and other weapons of mass destruction in the region : a “ wmd-free zone , ” ” ” ” built on an incentive-based system of incentives involving economic and technical support to countries that join , along with security guarantees from the united nations security council ’s permanent members . the zone should also enforce economic and political sanctions on states that choose to remain outside , and , once again , backed by the security council ’s permanent members , impose military sanctions on those that attempt to develop wmds . a unilateral military strike would , in short , carry potentially dire consequences .
cambridge – more than 130,000 people are said to have died at the time of syria ’s civil war . united nations reports of atrocity crimes , the internet images of assaults on civilians , and accounts for the suffering of refugees have rend our heart . but what is supposed to be done , and by whom ? more recently , the canadian scholar-politician michael ignatieff has urged us president barack obama to impose a no-fly zone over syria despite the near certainty that russia would veto the un security council resolution needed to legalize such a move . in ignatieff ’s view , if syrian president bashar al-assad is allowed to win , his forces will obliterate the remaining sunni insurgent – at least for now ; with the hatreds inflamed , blood will eventually flow again .
for americans ( and others ) who believe that the arab world thinks about nothing but the palestinian cause , events this spring in north africa , the arabian peninsula , and even the levant were supposed to persuade them otherwise . it is too soon to judge the historical effect of the arab spring , but if there is one conclusion that can be drawn today , it is that israel and its palestinian neighbors have had little to do with it . in the months ahead , one can expect the region ’s countries to remain focused on governance and capacity-building issues , human rights , and how to create market economies responsive to their restive citizens ’ demands for a better future . new arab leaders will struggle mightily with the public at increasing expectations , and their willingness to move behind a peace process will take a back seat to this struggle . now that a raucous regional situation is joining america ’s election season in raucous america ’s election season ( where no issue will be excluded from the political arena ) , the task for assembling
london – smes face a brunt of the effects of climate change , from rising sea levels and extreme weather events to prolonged severe drought and flooding . in emerging economies , smes account for as much as 45 % of employment and up to 33 % of gdp , and those numbers are much higher when informal smes are included . according to the world bank , without effective mitigation measures , climate change could push more than 100 million more people into poverty by 2030 . in order to help the most vulnerable communities become more resilient to the effects of climate change , financial institutions should be promoting small and medium-size enterprises ( smes ) . when the sme builds on its own climate resilience , it can cascading effects within the community around it .
agricultural production accounts for half of anthropogenic methane , but wastewater systems , landfills , and coal mining has also created gas . and because methane is a much shorter-lived gasoline than co2 , we can prevent some of the worst kinds of short-term warming via development . we could also place a greater emphasis on black carbon reduction , considering responsible for as much as 40 % of current net warming and one-third of the arctic . professor claudia kemfert of the german institute for economic research ( diw ) argues that spending $ 14 billion to reduce methane would generate benefits – from cutting warming – from 1.4 to three times higher . cutting methane , indeed , is cheaper than cutting carbon .
never having to deal with others as equal , in contrast to the traditional european powers that have done so for centuries . back in 1989 , large numbers of chinese students took over tiananmen square to demand more rights , adopting a symbol resembling a statue of liberty . today , too , it is not america ’s military power that poses a threat or challenge to china , but rather the enduring attractions of the “ the american dream . ” and yet , china ’s ’s ’s ’s challenge , however , may be more difficult . it must not only live with the realities of american power ; it must also account for the american ideal .
a stronger , more unified europe , the argument goes , could then compete for america and china across most of the domains – including through “ weaponizing ” its economic resources to further its geostrategic objectives . but , collectively , the eu ’s member states – even without the united kingdom ’s participation in the eu – would constitute a power of a similar magnitude . by bolstering its strategic sovereignty , that is why europe could make such a g3 world a reality . yet european leaders tempted by the prospect of a g3 world order must address two related concerns . first , it remains unclear how the eu will reach the necessary level of integration , when most important decisions within the bloc still call for unanimity among member states .
after all , that is how the us administration handled canada and mexico . both countries maintain relatively open economies with stronger protections in specific sectors . yet trump has exempted those two countries from tariffs temporarily , but now expects concessions by it in his administration to be renegotiated the north american free trade agreement . regulatory divergences constitute a far more important us-european trade obstacle than tariffs . while the us has , on average , fewer tariff protection than europe , the difference is minor ( in the european union , unweighted customs averages 5.2 % , versus 3.5 % for america ) .
how can a commercial firm not only be denied me the right to know my own genetic profile unless i pay their fee for a diagnostic test that might be fair enough ; it is also impossible to prevent any other firm from offering me a similar test unless those firms pay it a license fee ? nor do i have the rights of control in my own body ? do n’t i , somehow , believe in genetic determinism , to find this argument compelling . do n’t i somehow still “ own ” “ own ” them ? proprietary rights for commercial firms over the most fundamental element of an individual ’s genetic identity should not be enforceable .
there has also been opposition from some feminist organizations , accusing amnesty of protecting “ the rights of pimps and johns ” ” ” ” ” ” ” rights . instead , they argued , we should “ “ end up demanding paid sex cover – but , without explaining how this was to be done . in species that reproduce sexually , we are , for obvious reasons , one of our strongest and most pervasive aspirations . humans are no exception in this respect , and they are not likely to be capable of doing so . for this reason , the global alliance ’s international secretariat against child traffic applauded amnesty international for promoting decriminalization .
propelled by demand and outsourcing from the advanced economies , emerging markets won a rising share of soaring trade in goods ; by 2014 , they accounted for more than half of global trade flows . since the great recession , however , growth in global merchandise trade has stalled , owing largely to anemic demand in the world ’s major economies and plummeting commodity prices . but deeper structural change also plays a role . to be sure , many companies are streamlining and shoring up their supply chains . for a variety of goods , automation implies that production location and outsourcing decisions no longer depend mainly on the cost of labor .
in fact , former us secretary of state condoleezza rice explicitly linked russia ’s actions in ukraine with a “ talk of the withdrawal from afghanistan , ” whether security situation warrants it or not . under rice , anything less than the residual force of 10,000 american troops would send the message that america is not serious about helping to stabilize afghanistan – a message that would embolden russian president vladimir putin further . indeed , the us is understandably convinced that an ongoing military presence in afghanistan is in its interests . what it seems not to recognize , though , is that america ’s deteriorating ties with russia – a key conduit for american military supplies to afghanistan – could undercut its basing strategy . nonetheless , there is strong bipartisan us support in the american drive to maintain us military bases in afghanistan as a means to projecting hard power , and the increasingly charged confrontation between america and russia over ukraine has greatly boosted that support .
in fact , polish prime minister beata szydło has already initiated that strategy , by refusing to sign off on the summit ’s official record as if that would render the outcome inconsequential poland . without an elected government , the pis has undeniably paralyzed the court , thereby undermining the rule of law in poland . according to waszczykowski , poland ’s polish foreign minister , witold waszczykowski , told a tabloid superekspres after a summit that the eu has been pursuing “ a policy of double standards and deceptions . ” such infantile ploys have become all too characteristic of the pis government , which has likewise refused to publish polish constitutional tribunal rulings , as if this is to make them legal non-binding . according to waszczykowski , poland not only must drastically reduce [ its ] level of eu trust in the eu , ” but must also start pursuing a negative policy , ” by blocking other initiatives or playing a very aggressive game .
we tap that solar power in many fundamental ways – food production , wind power , hydroelectric power , solar heating , solar-thermal electricity , solar panels – but the possibilities for vastly increased use of inexpensive , widely available , and environmentally friendly solar power are enormous . this will require massive investments in new technologies and resources , instead of the “ fight to complete ” over middle eastern oil . indeed , there is excellent potential for low-emitting solar electricity , zero-emitting energy technologies , and secure and reliable nuclear power . yet solar radiation equals roughly 10,000 times our current use of energy . important energy technologies will include the conversion of coal to liquids ( such as gasoline ) ; use of tar sands and oil , and growth of non-fossil-fuel sources .
there was a brief political infatuation among some westerners in the 1960 ’s with nehru ’s jackets and maoist revolution , but it was done brief . as john lennon sang in 1968 , “ if you follow the pictures of chairman mao , you will make it with anyone anyhow . asia ’s resurgence began with japan ’s economic success . in the 1950 ’s , asia conjured up images of poverty and starvation . by the end of the century , japan , ’s spectacular performance not only made the japanese wealthy , but also boosted the country ’s soft power .
likewise , to lay the groundwork for future economic growth , the eu should nurture new , sustainable industries and innovative small , medium-size companies – not cutting funding for vital research programs like the horizon of 2020 . for example , the proposed slashes funding for cross-source infrastructure projects , including expanding high-speed broadband networks to rural areas , and developing transportation and energy infrastructure . but the eu can add significant value to itself by coordinating supranational infrastructure projects , thereby achieving economies of scale and avoiding the duplicity of the domestic-expenditure system . europeans would benefit directly , through improved internet access , lower energy costs , and more efficient transportation links . but , with firing and eu countries seeking to spur spending , the council should also consider the budget ’s shape , ensuring that the mff does not impede future growth and investment .
in the wake of the sichuan earthquake , criticism of china will be even more muted . in 1997 , denmark , a nation whose people are demonstrably committed to human rights , asked the united nations human rights commission in geneva to look into the ccp for a long track record of abuses . france got the message , and the french soon stopped promoting human rights resolutions directed at china . the french were then rewarded on stockpiles of lucrative deals in china . the us responded by canceling the danish open trade mission ( made in china ) .
and it brings people together to work toward providing universal health coverage while ensuring everyone ’s right to health . at the sdg framework , separating gender and health issues is interrelated , because gender itself is one major driver of health outcomes . it encompasses research initiatives and global public goods like vaccine and emergency-preparedness programs for epidemics . the global sdg in this field determines the norms and norms that shape how public - and private-sector actors promote health , prevent disease , and administer care . gender can influence whether one smokes tobacco , exercises periodically regularly or has access to nutritious food .
still , just the presence of a plurality of women has an impact . “ each of us , ” noted sandra day o’connor , america ’s first-ever female member of the american supreme court , who was renowned for not wanting to be perceived as a “ feminine ” female ” justice , “ bringing to our work , whatever that would be – our lifetime of experience and our values . in other words , women bring a fresh perspective , heard clearly only when critical mass is present in any institution . still , just the presence of a plurality of women has an impact . for example , studies of us courts with multiple court justices reveal that male judges are more willing to hear bias cases when one woman is standing on a bench , and dramatically more willing when a second woman is added .
but to choose the action of the greater good does not absolve us from our moral culpability . yet , he immediately adds , that this getting one ’s hands stingy in this way is “ often the right thing to do . ” ultimately , an adviser to authoritarian leaders can not escape the dilemma . the philosopher michael walzer puts it well : “ it ’s easy to get one ’s hands dirty in politics . our hands turn out to be dirty , when we help a terror or a dictator .
yet , in 1991 , it was exiled 800,000 yemenis , because they were perceived as a domestic security threat in the run-up to the first gulf war . since then , yemeni labor has been banned from saudi arabia . embittered and unemployed , young yemeni men often become subject to another saudi policy gone awry , its propagation of the sunni wahhabi form of islam ’s religious colonial regime . with the new wahhabi madrasas popping up everywhere in yemen due to saudi financial support , it is small wonder that yemeni jihadis have grown exponentially . but yemen , too , is engaged in its own destructive policies .
yet we still have much to learn about it . independently , honjo and colleagues identified another protein that carries out a similar function . these fundamental studies have now driven the rise of new , powerful immunotherapies that are effective in combating cancer . for some patients with some cancers , immunotherapies have been revolutionary , enabling humans who have been on the verge of dying to live healthy lives with no detectable footprints of the disease . yet the immunotherapy revolution remains in its infancy .
but it has followed this approach on the macro level and for problems elsewhere in the economy without scrutinizing itself . silicon valley ’s citizens need to start applying their talents at innovations – and their pride in “ breaking things ” – – to themselves . the good news is that , if any place has proved that it can innovate , it is silicon valley . the only way to evolve is through adaptation to new environmental pressures , and now to silicon valley , owing in large part to its own behavior – faces plenty of it . unless it changes , it will be overridden .
here , too , the platform for innovation is helping . establishing a structured , well-functioning goat market helps to create a positive feedback loop . if smallholder farmers are convinced that their goats will not be stolen and can sell them at a decent price , they are better able to invest in improving their productive system . for starters , we have trained farmers to store their soil through the expanding legume crop , residues of which can be used as goat fodder . recognizing the benefits of such practices , farmers have immediately begun to boost crop density , applying manure and rotating crops , thereby raising yields and producing more feed for healthier goats .
but , for the lower-skilled workers , the transition underway today could prove just as wrenching . looking ahead , policymakers and business should keep five imperatives in mind . with fears of increased inequality already rising , governments will need to rethink policies for providing income and job-shifting support to displaced workers . in the early nineteenth century , annual wages stagnated for almost 50 years before they shot up . that may , in turn , have been an extreme situation .
at a 2016 au summit in kigali , african leaders recognized that , despite the au ’s achievements , it remained under-resourced and inefficient , operating beneath potential and failing to implement many decisions . this is largely a matter of thinking , not action . fortunately , when it comes to shaping the au , mindsets are beginning to shift . to reinvigorate the au , they tasked rwandan president paul kagame with guiding a process in which all of them have been deeply engaged . less than three years later , a set of reform recommendations produced by kagame and a pan-african university of experts to appoint – through an inclusive , consultative process – which includes african leaders and other stakeholders – are making progress .
both countries had floating exchange rates , which means that their central banks were not inclined to intervene in a currency market by buying and selling us reserves . suppose ilan goldfajn , brazil ’s stellar central banker , issues the new york futures bond and uses the dollar ’s proceeds to enlarge a country ’s international reserves . now suppose that one of argentina ’s private agricultural exporters also questions an international bond , and uses the dollars to enlarge one of its modern-day , highly competitive dairy plants to sell more powdered milk to asia . at best , market participants will be applauded for the decisions ; at worst , they will be indifferent , because brazil ’s net debt position will not change . more fundamentally , why are we thinking of reserves very differently than we think of other assets on our national balance sheets ?
while other countries are embracing a robust digital strategies , america is falling further behind . in india , for example , prime minister narendra modi is implementing a strategy that is transforming india into a tech powerhouse , setting the stage for a digital future . in france , the government has made investments in an expansive national digital plan that is expected to create 1.1 million jobs over the next 3-5 years , and is contributing $ 101 billion to gdp over the next decade . while other countries are embracing a robust digital strategy , america is falling further behind . in india , for example , prime minister narendra modi is implementing a strategy to transform india into a tech powerhouse , setting the stage for a digital-future .
beyond funding constraints , women face high social and cultural barriers to political participation . fortunately , some countries are introducing innovative measures to address this problem . in georgia , for example , political parties that comprise at least 30 % of all gender on their electoral lists receive a 30 % supplement from the state-run budgets . likewise , in iran , despite having a substantial social and cultural barriers to political participation , women face high social and cultural barriers to political participation . greater care duties , in particular , have been reinforced by public perceptions of a “ woman ’s ’s ’s role , ” ” ” ” severely undermine women ’s capacity to run for public office .
moreover , as is often the case , sanctions may have done more to decimate the middle class and further weaken the least powerful than to motivate iran ’s leaders to seek an agreement . but there is scant evidence to suggest that the sanctions did anything to slow iran ’s nuclear program to slow it . by all accounts , iran is a society deeply divided among those who want their country to be a respected member of the international community , and those for which iran ’s international standing is better served by its nuclear-weapons program . an international sanctions imposed on iran would appear to have helped the latter , rather than the former . that might well have been true when iran was a full-fledged democracy , genuinely responsible for the people ’s will .
as with the information technology revolution , advances in clean energy will require engaging both the public and private sector alike . the bec ’s argument – that the “ new model ” will be public-private partnerships among governments , research institutes , and investors ” – shines a welcome spotlight on relations . for example , one hopes that the paris agreement is a change that has been made . finally , patient finance must be made available to help companies minimize uncertainty and bridge the so-called “ death valley ” among basic research and commercialization . because we do not yet know which innovations will be the most important in decarbonizing the economy , investment must be allocated to a broad array of choices .
but these challenges will not address , and the opportunities will not materialize , unless children everywhere have the skills they need . for these reasons , my country , senegal , has long been committed to providing education to its children – particularly girls and those from disadvantaged backgrounds – high-quality education . in 2017 , we invested 25 % of our domestic budget – representing close to 7 % of gdp – in educating our children and young people . furthermore , we plan to provide up to 90 % of the funding for a new program to improve senegal ’s education system from now to 2030 . even so , senegal struggles to meet all of the cost in strengthening its education system .
advances in the defense industry lead to significant positive externalities , such as civil-military synergies and investment in research and development – which are fundamental to growth , innovation , and future competition . europe ’s ’s ’s defense industries alone will be unable to facilitate progress without a well-functioning market – open , transparent , and equal opportunity for all european suppliers . just as member states advance along this path , propelled by its technological and operational excellence and innovation , they can find avenues for the elimination of wasteful spending and optimize its resource use . the goal must be to advance european security integration ( in its broadest sense ) , lifting europe to the forefront of global security . a critical component in helping to coordinate and operating europe ’s ’s ’s security and defense policy is a european defense agency .
for example , china banned shark-fin soup , traditional delicacy , at the official government dinners , and functions – a move that contributed to a 30 % shark-fin sales drop from last december to april . in the south city of guangzhou , center on china ’s shark-fin trade , sellers reported a 82 % drop in sales over the past two years . a study by the australian marine institute found that palau ’s shark-diving industry is worth far more than its shark-fishing industry . a single reef shark that frequents major down-sest sites in palau is worth roughly $ 179,000 annually , or $ 1.9 million over his lifetime ; a single reef shark would cost roughly $ 108 dead . to be sure , it should not be hard to spur countries to take action to protect their shark populations , given the shark ’s economic value plummets as it kills .
tudjman 's pretext was that nasser needed to concentrate power in exchange for his struggle against serbian aggression . the truth is that he used a negotiated hostility with slobodan milosevic to solidify personal rule and russian-style plunder of state properties by his coterie loyalists . to accomplish this with a minimum fuss , he muzzled the associated press and electronic media . despite enmity between serbia and croatia , dealing a dictator with milosevic was straightforward . because the two tudjman and milosevic believed in ethnically homogeneous states , they fomented forced population transfers ( ie , ethnic cleansing ) and partition of territory among one another .
since may 1997 , 55-61 % of voters cast their ballots for democratic candidates in legislative council elections , the government has voted accordingly . its membership chosen by a mere 7 % of hong kong voters , and its voting procedures seek to block the nomination of any candidate who may decry the country ’s democratic sympathies . hong kong ’s government could call for changes to enhance the degree of openness and fairness by which the chief executive is chosen without abandoning its current method in favor of universal suffrage . as a rule , hong kong ’s election committee should be “ broadly representative ” – a provision that the board ’s current composition violates . the current proposed arrangements would allow the chinese government to veto any candidate that it has disliked , spurring criticism that what is on offer is iranian-style elections : “ you may vote for anyone we elect . ”
in promoting democracy , liberals reject the argument used by today ’s rulers that the initial free election would be the last , because islamists would win and establish their theocratic regimes . reformers insist that large majorities supported moderate solutions , or at least that radical islamist groups would need to become pragmatic in ways that compete for power and govern . january ’s palestinian elections were won by a relatively moderate leader , for it was introduced by the ruling fatah movement and the islamists boycotted the election . but , in gaza strip local elections soon afterward , the radical islamists who use terrorism won seven of the ten municipal councils . that case , too , is not yet proven to be the issue .
increasingly , the industry is implementing approaches that have ensured success in other sectors , such as lowering procurement costs and deploying lean principles in manufacturing . this is a global segment meeting a growing global need . a shakeout in clean-tech industry has been tough ; but it has also been typical of emerging technologies and , through weeding out more weaker players , made the sector more robust . as clean-tech firms continue on the scale , there will be additional opportunities to improve . there is little scope for doubt that cleaning up tech industry can expect many sunny days ahead .
princeton – the economic gloom that envelops the world in 2008 led many to question whether the apparent prosperity that preceded it was real . we know that , in countries as diverse as china , india , russia , and the united states , the number of billionaires has ballooned . more broadly , the top 1 % of the population has prospered while very means . but the gap between the rich and the poor has widened , and at least in the us , incomes of the poor and the middle class are stagnated.ampnbsp ; little wonder : many are currently skeptical about taxpayer-financed schemes to bail out banks , insurance companies , and even automakers . little wonder , then , that many are now skeptical of taxpayer-financed schemes to bail out banks , insurance companies , and even of the automakers .
their primary goals include enabling companies and organizations to establish sustainability targets and crucial performance metrics ; monitor , prepare , and publicizing the comparative data that measure their economic and esg practices ; and integrating sustainable production and consumption practices into companies ’ business strategies and models . and yet global awareness of the topic is growing . consider the magnitude of the challenge , but it is also important to ensure the effective coordination and harmonization of these efforts with relevant standard-setters , regulators , and professional organizations . most recently , mark carney , governor of the bank of england and the chairman of the g20 ’s financial stability board , and michael bloomberg , a former new york city mayor and ceo of bloomberg lp , has issued an announcement focusing on market data on climate policy . america ’s treasuries and exchange commission , for one , have already debated these issues , because it analyzes the options to respond to investor and business needs on esg .
specifically , small landholders need new tools that allow them to boost productivity while putting in place a more sustainable way of production methods for production . the pursuit of prosperous , inclusive economies must be linked to efforts to address climate change and to achieve universal food security . but the outcomes that the world needs – viable financing options and frameworks to support economic transformation , as well as integrated environmental and sustainable-development governance – can not be achieved without political will . this month ’s g20 summit and the united nations conference on sustainable development in rio de janeiro are a pivotal opportunity to establish a more holistic international approach to global economic recovery and sustainable development . success at los cabos will depend on g-20 leaders ’ ability to galvanize similar levels of collective , concerted action that enabled them to curb global recession amid the 2008 financial crisis .
new york – global financial markets in 2008 experienced their worst crisis since the great depression of the 1930 ’s . major financial institutions went bust ; others were selling on the cheap , or had survived only after the major bailouts . global stock markets fell by more than 50 % ; interest-rate spreads skyrocketed ; a severe liquidity and credit crunch appeared ; and multiple emerging-market economies staggered to the international monetary fund for assistance . so what lies ahead right now , as in 2009 ? does the worst behind us or ahead ?
and it takes a simple minute on twitter or cable news to validate the old adage : “ if it bleeds , it leads . ” good news is not news ; media executives often mutter . add to that the second psychological bias neuroscientists are debating : just as our species evolved to fend off dangers , we tend to find ourselves more susceptible to bad news . we react more acutely to pictures of starving children than we can reports about improving nutrition levels across africa . and , obviously , we tend to be remembered for those horrible images much longer .
nowadays , the government no longer monopolizes information and the right way to process it . a “ virtual civil society ” is in making this work . insightful bloggers attract considerably more clicks than do official mouthpieces . this thirst for unbiased information highlights the dramatic change that the internet has brought to china ’s political landscape . china ’s government has seemingly started to appreciate the limitations of cover-ups and stonewalling , and perhaps also the merits of allowing some room for free speech .
new york – earlier this month , oecd countries often dedicate public funds to encouraging exports of their own goods and services . but devoting resources to promote imports – as china does with its inaugural international import expo , which just opened in shanghai – is actually rare . if the expo succeeds in boosting imports , one might expect that it will reduce china ’s trade surplus . but that need not be the case . the annualized import expo that will become part of china ’s overall import promotion strategy has attracted thousands of companies worldwide with the promise of big orders from chinese firms , including state-owned enterprises ( soes ) , that the government tasked with making the expo a success .
it is the key to understanding the past and the future of international relations . its history tells us how it views itself and others . london – the great historian norman stone – who died in june was always in insisting that history students learn some kind of foreign languages . knowledge of languages should thus be an essential component of an historian ’s technological device . language provides access to the human culture and culture of its history .
the first nagging question is this : will the election really happen next january ? more neutral observers – and , indeed , daily news bulletins about bombings and “ insurgent ” politicians – cast doubt on this prospect . prime minister iyad allawi assures the world that there will be , and president bush echoes his words . while this scenario is straightforward , the reality is not . more neutral observers – and , indeed , daily news bulletins at bombings and “ insurgents ” – cast doubt on this prospect . the probability of the iraqi elections arriving this year must be lower than 50 % , and we can be sure that those will not be a free and fair election throughout the country as a whole .
atlanta – as the united states marks the first anniversary of us president donald trump ’s election , the questioning of how trump won still commands attention , with russia ’s role increasingly moving to center stage . but making amends through technical fixes and public promises to be better corporate citizens will solve only the most publicized problem . the harder challenge will be strengthening institutions that are vitally important to the functioning of democracy , – in particular , civics training , and local journalism – as well . each new revelation in the investigation of russia ’s meddling in the 2016 campaign brings america ’s democratic process vulnerability to sharper focus . last week , the us congress unveiled legislation empowering facebook , google , and other social-media giants to publish who purchase online advertising , thereby closing the loopholes that russia had exploited during its election .
but , while import restrictions may ease the pain of some manufacturing districts , they will not stop companies from relocating where growth opportunities are the strongest . and they will not recreate yesterday ’s ’s ’s patterns of development . in an american presidential campaign , trade protection is once again fashionable , as well . yet , if the ends are clear , politicians are often clueless about the means . yet , if the ends are clear , politicians are often clueless .
algeria in the 1990 ’s is a potent reminder to this , and western governments do not want a vicious cycle of repressive autocrats who produce violent theocrats and refugees relaunch . a move by army officers in tripoli against qaddafi and his sons could end the conflict , with military commanders gaining credit and political capital . but four decades of military-based dictatorship may be enough for libyans , most of whom never really benefited from their country ’s wealth or potential . when it comes to producing terrorists and undocumented immigrants – two critical issues for europe , arab military dictators – have an inglorious record . getting “ stuck in the transition ” is the third potential scenario , with libya remaining in a “ gray zone ” arguing neither a fully-fledged democracy nor a dictatorship , but “ semi-free . ”
first , the female training of judges predisposed them to yield benefits for any reasonable doubt to a fellow muslim . third , whereas muslims might attest against anyone , christians , and jews might attest only against another non-muslim . but , of course , if they were included in a case against a muslim , that was to be handled through an islamic tribunal . second , the tribunal ’s staff was rather muslim , an act that meant that testimony were viewed solely from a muslim perspective . when a muslim and a non-muslim face faced one another in their trial , the muslim enjoyed significant advantages .
the first principle is reciprocity , which implies that if israel had the right to attack the osirak reactor , then iraq held the right to bomb an israeli nuclear establishment at dimona . some argue that the real point is the risk of attack and destruction , which might occur when the weapons of mass destruction are stationed . they employ something like cost/benefit analysis based on a subjective sense of danger . but there is no way to make an objective assessment of fear an act , and even if this might be the case , using cost/benefit analysis to invade another country ’s territory would wreak havoc on the world ’s global system of national sovereignty and international law . a better way to make a sense of deflation is to invoke two principles that underlie legal claims of justification in both homegrown and international law .
and violent conflict remains widespread , with the world ’s poorest regions the most vulnerable to droughts . most economies are becoming less equitable as they are , with the widening gaps between rich and poor alike . with these challenges in mind , world leaders agreed last year at the rio +20 summit to adopt the sustainable development goals ( sdgs ) . the world ’s governments then asked the un secretary-general to coordinate to prepare those goals by the year 2015 to ensure a seamless transition from the millennium development goals ( mdgs ) , which expire that year . a crucial un general assembly meeting will take place , in late september , for this purpose .
an argentine , jordanian , malaysian , or spaniard who can visualize and create thriving global demand for a product or service – just as spain ’s amancio ortega did with zara – is just as much the entrepreneur as the next bill gates ’ own version of it . from lahore to lagos , mexico city to mumbai , governments are overlooking their own populations as pools of talent waiting to be tapped . it is time for diplomats to do the same . they should promote and encourage job creators and problem solvers and turn development aid into investment opportunities . today , startups employs roughly 182,000 people worldwide – 50,000 more than facebook , google , and apple combined .
though such politicians often describe themselves as rightist , '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' '' their real policies such as one example those of former polish prime minister vladimir meciar 's regime appear to be in fact demagogic populist or authoritarian . while both polish and hungarian communist parties experienced internal liberalization that allowed relatively large semi-official zones of activity outside of communist control , slovakia after the soviet-led invasion of 1968 thus became a pure neo-stalinist regime . when former soviet communist regimes collapsed in 1989 , poland 's communist parties and hungary transformed themselves into a credible , democratic-left country , which had become formidable opponents of the newly emerging political right . indeed , the situation of political right in any central european country is further influenced by experiences rooted in history and traditions . the political developments in slovakia during the past 20 years of communism set the czech republic and slovakia apart from both poland and hungary .
the eu ’s maastricht treaty has specifically reserves this tax-and-transfer authority to member states , a reflection of europeans ’ unwillingness to transfer funds to other countries in ways that americans are willing to do among people in various nation-states . a third important difference is the need for all us states to place their constitutions in order to balance their annual operating budgets . even a state like california , which has many as a poster child for fiscal profligacy , now has an annual budget deficit of just 1 % of its gdp and a generalized obligation of debt of just 4 % of gdp . whereas a “ rainy day ” fund that is accumulating in the boom years is being used to deal with temporary revenue shortfalls , states with “ universal obligation ” borrowing constrains capital projects like roads and schools . such limits on state-level budget deficits are the logical implication that american states can not create money to fill the fiscal gaps .
i have little doubt that sometime later this century , one gets to buy hedge-podge professors – possibly with holographic images – just as easily as one could purchase heaters kasparov ’s computer computer computer computer today . globalization has proceeded at a quickening pace through much of the past century and at a particularly accelerating pace over the past two decades . yet an enormous body of evidence suggests that the advent of technological change has been a much bigger driver in global wage patterns than trade . to be sure , i do not feel as secure as a economics professor at mit ! hence , let ’s return to india and china .
some empirical studies of cross-country data find net beneficial effects on story environmental degradation indicators like the local level of sulfur-dioxide air pollution . provided that countries have effective governance institutions at the nation-state , business , and growth give them the means to clean up their air . specialization in any country enables people to acquire more of what they want – which – which , particularly at higher income levels , covers cleaner air and water . when trade produces costs , it can benefit from environmental goods just as it benefits other goods . so , is trade globalization , better or worse ?
tokyo – during the cold war , the term “ kremlinology ” referred to the efforts to understand what took place in the commanding heights of the soviet union , indeed , beyond the entire iron curtain . kremlinologists monitored ( in whatever way is possible ) who were up and down among the core soviet leadership . great significance was read to who signed an official document or who stood where atop lenin ’s tomb in red square when revising military parades . all that was grammar-school photos , compared to efforts to decipher the regime in north korea , where truth is far more opaque . consider what happened on december 17 th .
in a despairing last-ditch effort , the imf is now inventing “ ill-over ” news ” to a select few systemically important economies , to be conducted at the margins of its country ( article iv ) consultations . that initiative is destined to fail , just as it has the imf ’s own multilateral surveillance exercises or g-20 peer reviews in its recent history . even where massive spillovers are unambiguously recognized , it is hard to see how this exercise would have solved a fundamental problem behind a currency war : the major players ’ seeming unwillingness to reconcile vastly different national interests . so , what , then , should latin american economies be doing ? surely , they have a right to defend themselves , whether through foreign-exchange intervention and the consequent accumulation of reserves ( a potentially lucrative option when capital flows are indeed temporary ) , imposing capital controls , or other current-related macro-prudential policies aimed at countercyclical exchange-rate smoothing .
if china let its currency float back now , it would depreciate in value , deepening the crisis . east asian countries were following this advice and for good reason : they saw the consequences of shortages . east asian governments knew then that the imf ’s policies would deepen their downturns but were powerless to resist . the imf had the money to which it needed . countries were warned : avoid trade deficits and build reserves because they are key frontline defense .
three us states have implemented laws offering paid family leave with a fourth . welfare-to-work programs in michigan and wisconsin have served as models for federal welfare reform under president bill clinton , and obamacare is based on the massachusetts institute of health-care delivery , introduced under republican state governor mitt romney . likewise , from 2000 to 2014 , by enacting a variety of energy-policy policies – – – – – – from broad climate action plans to mandated renewable-energy norms – 33 states cut their carbon dioxide emissions , while expanding their economies . half of every us state now restates marijuana in some form , with eighth embracing full-fledged legalization . more recently , some states have instituted cap-and-trade systems to put a price on carbon , and many are already on track to meet obama ’s clean power plan targets .
cambridge – “ i want to be part of it – new york , new york , ” frank sinatra , a city that has attracted so many of the world ’s most ambitious people , from artists and performers to businesspeople and bankers . but the impact of big cities has run deeper than economic or even cultural powers ; cities can fundamentally change people ’s lives – and even those themselves . in a sense , this is not a difficult phenomenon to explain ; metropolises like the new york city , with its multicultural populations ; transnational corporations ; and a multitude of talented individuals are rife with opportunities . in a 2010 book , geoffrey west , combined with an advanced researchers ’ team , found that a few socioeconomic arrangements – both positively and negatively – add to the size of local populations . in other words , the larger a city , the higher its average wage , the multiple patents per individual , the crime rate , the prevalence of anxiety , and the incidence of hiv .
at a time when america ’s nuclear-reactor purchases – made possible by the historic deal negotiated by the bush administration – has been held by america ’s insistence on exemptions from supplier responsibility in case of the accident , some regard india ’s spurts of american aircraft as a gratuitous rejection of an opportunity to demonstrate that a friendship with india helps america , too . against this is the unambiguous levers of pleasing a major new ally and developing a pattern of bilateral military cooperation in supply , training , and operations that have so far evolved . as if all of this were not enough to make a decision against america , clintons may well have been india ’s government ’s desire to avoid future procurement controversy at a time when allegations of corruption beset it from all sides . a decision made on technocratic grounds , many felt , would be easier to defend than one based on political considerations . ( presumably , the eventual winner in his bid will require it to enter into a joint-production arrangement with india that american companies would not . )
even the stronger banks are being pressed to increase their capital buffers . in the case of the banks that required state rescues , european competition rules are demanding divestment and downsizing . institutions like the royal bank of scotland , which for a time in 2009 took the world ’s largest multinational bank , are pruned by the eu ’s directorate general for competition . in most cases , this implies that they will continue to cut back on lending , aggravating the impact of the financial crisis on the rest of the economy . as a result , big supranational institutions are being lobbying hard for a pan-european approach to banking supervision and regulation ( and , implicitly , for fiscal bailouts should that supervision and regulation fail ) .
north korea immediately did just that , threatening to carry out a tenacity strike on american guam territory . more ominous , according to confidential american intelligence officials ’ message , north korea has achieved the capability to miniaturize nuclear warheads , and may have as many as 60 bombs . trump shot back that the american military is “ locked and charged . ” and , indeed , as this exchange of a rhetorical fire has unfolded , reportedly has been preparing revised military options for striking north korea . the stakes are rising in kim , and trump ’s game of thrones .
the first is that we all owe at least some of our success to others , in view of the public goods society provided by them . this calls for more modesty and restraint in determining the highest salaries , not for the moral reasons but for the sake of sustainability . but do n’t hold your breath waiting until they can agree . two conclusions can be drawn from all this . the second conclusion is that the most privileged classes that have benefited most from others ’ solidarity , mostly from the poor , can no longer deny the latter ’s contributions .
after all , it is extremely inconvenient to have in greece a government that is so opposed to the kinds of policies that did so much as to increase inequality in so many advanced countries and that commit itself to curbing unbridled power of wealth . moreover , they understood that unemployment would rise if the country ’s monetary policy were to were set by the central bank for which inflation had been concentrated ( along with an inadequate system of attention to financial stability ) . when sweden ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s did , swedes said no . and , to be sure , what we are seeing now , 16 years after the eurozone institutionalized those relationships were the antithesis of democracy : many european leaders want to see the end of prime minister alexis tsipras ’s leftist government . they understood that the unemployment rate would rise if the country ’s monetary policy had been set by the central bank , which focused single-mindedly on inflation ( as well as insufficient attention to financial stability ) .
durham – earlier this year , islamist politics had faced massive setbacks in two major predominantly muslim countries : egypt and turkey . just over a year after mohamed morsi ’s muslim brotherhood government became egypt ’s first female president , millions of egyptians took to the street in triggering the military coup that ousted him . but his rejection of pluralism and the persecution of an islamic dictatorship , exemplified by his efforts to consolidate power in the brotherhood ’s hands and place himself beyond the impeachment of egypt ’s ’s judiciary , has proved to be its undoing . morsi ’s ’s ’s political ineptitude and lack of vision in the face of economic collapse would have been enough to diminish support for his government . yet it is too soon to write political islam back as an able participant , even a leading power , in a pluralist democracy .
on may 19 , a team of korean researchers published in the journal science papers that , for the first time , isolated human embryonic stem-cell lines specifically tailored to fit the dna of male and female patients with various ages . the following day , british researchers at first-castle university announced that they had successfully produced a cloned human embryo , using donated eggs and genetic material by stem cells , and helped to produce both cloned human embryo . this carries great promise , notably , for sufferers of spinal cord injury and illnesses . both breakthroughs constitute a stunning advance in stem cell research . embryonic stem cells are pluripotent , which means that they have the capacity to develop into any particular kind of human tissue .
this includes ramping up its tradable-permit program by lowering the threshold beyond which firms must pay and eliminating exemptions from permits for firms or industries . such actions would not only boost fiscal sustainability – the additional revenues could total 2 % of gdp – but also improve the efficiency of overall resource allocation . finally , china can lower government expenditure ( in the medium term ) by making its vast administrative hierarchy . in recent decades , many of the largest global companies have used new technologies to reduce employee layers , from top managers to factory workers , thereby cutting costs and boosting efficiencies . on the other hand , china ’s government has retained the same six-layer of administrative structures – beginning with the central government and moving down through provinces , prefectures , counties , township ships , and villages – since the founding of the people ’s republic 70 years ago .
when one pole of nuclear deterrence weakened , owing to russia ’s political decline in the 1990 ’s , nato , a defensive union of democratic and peaceful states committed aggression against yugoslavia . now that russia has reconstituted its capability , such a move would have been unthinkable . nuclear deterrence – the threat of killing hundreds of thousands or millions of people – is an idea that does not fit into traditional morals . indeed , the risks of a world without nuclear weapons – or with only a minimal number of them – are tremendous . still , it has worked , preventing catastrophic wars , while making people much more civilized and cautious .
as the tragedy has unfolded , however , scientists have gained a greater understanding of the disease . an infectious prion then hijacks the body ’s machinery , reprogramming it into a willing replication executioner . the prion gene is provided by an infected individual , in which it resides in an innocuous state . prions , it seems , seem to defy all conventional wisdom , survivor pressure-cooking , irradiation , and even an incineration at 340 ° c above average treatments that are routinely and reliably used to deactivate all known viruses and bacteria . furthermore , prions lack their own genes .
but america ’s experience shows that acquiring artistic talk like orchestra musical directors to engage in fundraising need not be an evil for a job ’s artistic side . some of the conductors , not wishing to carry a tin cup as they wave their batons , rejected important posts at the american precisely because of this reason , feeling that it would interfere with their arts . daniel barenboim is rumored to have left the chicago symphony orchestra partly because of his opposition to the fundraising demands that were produced . daniel barenboim is rumored to have abandoned the chicago symphony orchestra partly because he objected to the fundraising demands that have been made to him . nonetheless , daniel barenboim is rumored to have abandoned the city of chicago symphony orchestra partly because he objected to the fundraising demands that were made to him .
the council is more likely to accept the possibility of running a punitive airstrikes program – going well beyond what had been done in 1998 – on suspected wmd sites , presidential compounds , republican guard , and other armed-force targets . the council could also declare that any kind of fresh aggression , or any use , threat , or wmd ’s transfer , would unleash saddam ’s removal and his pursuit as international criminal as slobodan milosevic . this would hurt and weaken saddam , basing ’s unmistakably on the message that defiance of the un carries severe sanctions . it would be strange to uphold the council ’s authority by means that it has not been able to acquire its approbation . we should not forswear this possibility ; but we would have tried to consider others , not least because the security council – whose backing is politically if not legally crucial – might never have promoted an invasion .
soon thereafter , un inspectors returned to tarmiya . this time , dr. ahmed , the saudi counterpart of iraq , realized that the games were up . some of the un inspectors that he was well knew , had trotted out dined with them on collegial terms during visits to vienna . that , he would lie to them so brazenly was incomprehensible to his friends on the inspection team . this time they knew exactly what the enormous talent had been for : producing weapons grade nuclear materials .
in 1955 , the economist simon kuznets hypothesized that income inequality would increase sharply and then decay – on an inverted pattern of “ u ” or bell – as countries underwent economic development . given the pace of china ’s economic growth since 1978 , its experience re-experience this claim more powerfully than any other scenario . but china ’s dizzying rise has also dispelled three contemporary leading myths about the impact of its economic growth . the first is that growth reduces inequality and increases happiness . after all , china is now one of the world ’s most unequal countries .
pakistan held a free and fair election in 2002 and 2007 , and is preparing to hold another by the end of 2012 or early 2013 . had the supreme court not removed gilani , it would be the first prime minister to fill his full term . of course , democracy is always meant to mean more than periodically holding free and fair elections . it must also mean designing a robust rule of law , granting people enforceable property rights , and giving citizens institutional means to settle their disputes . pakistan has held one more step to develop a political system based on the rule of law .
by contrast , cuba ’s government continues to detain prisoners of conscience and criminal demands for a socially ety-wide dialogue . this year , the peoples of europe are marking the twentieth anniversary of the fall of the iron curtain , which once divided europe in two . to be sure , the tourists whom cuba ’s beaches are not fully aware of this iron curtain . but , regardless of this ignorance and its economic interests , the eu should insist on releasing political prisoners and using all international institutions to pressure the cuban government to respect cuba ’s human and civil rights . that 20 years after that epochal event , the iron curtain remains around cuba makes this anniversary poignant .
some have alleged the uprising in burma ’s burma . but we believe that the protests represent the beginning of the end of military rule in our country . that is what the junta wants the world to have thought through . brigadier general kyaw hahsan , the army ’s representative , recently told un special envoy ibrahim gambari , that the marchers in the streets were “ bogus monks . ” but the us is genuine , and thousands of us – from rangoon , mandalay , pegu , arakan , magwe , and sagaing – have shown for peace .
after all , he believed that being a “ philosopher ” meant assuming the responsibility of a moral reformer . yet plato would probably have been most astonished by the world of moral advancement . for example , although plato opposed greeks ’ enslavement , he – like every other ancient greek – condoned “ barbarians ” ( the non-greeks ) enslavement . yet , though morals has always been at the center of his thinking , too , many of the moral truths that we now take for granted has never occurred . today , by contrast , even an emphatically jewish person – say , plato ’s ’s ’s ’s “ media entourage , ” might easily explain why all of them is wrong : “ man is a person . ”
here , indigenous and international civil-society organizations , together with regional and municipal governments , have an important role to play , and colombia ’s past experience overcoming a similar challenges should prove helpful . ( dismantling the narco-trafficking activities in which the farc has been engaged can also be viewed as economic , given the need to provide alternative opportunities in rural areas ; but it is , first and foremost , a security matter . ) but it is at least as crucial to address local-level social divisions that have emerged as a result of conflict , particularly with hubs of violence . such an effort must be supported by progress elsewhere : rural development , which is the one economic issue addressed under a peace deal . this is hardly surprising : after all , the massive inequities that have characterize rural colombia gave the farc the former , and the conflict has been concentrated in such areas .
glattbrug , switzerland – rising youth unemployment , particularly in europe , is making headlines worldwide . roughly 5.5 million europeans under the age of 25 are unemployed . more than 7.5 million europeans , under the age of 25 , are unemployed . the youth unemployment rate exceeds 25 % in 13 europe , amounting to roughly 30 % in italy , ireland , bulgaria , slovakia , latvia , hungary , slovakia , and slovakia , and surpassing 55 % in greece and spain . moreover , more than 30 % of job-seekers under 25 have been unemployed for more than 12 months , and their job-poor prospects remain low .
in other words , foreign manufacturers are blamed for `` unfair '' competition far more easily than domestic manufacturers are . yet america 's high court has set standards so high for american firms to be found guilty of predation that few cases are successfully prosecuted domestically . meanwhile , us trade negotiators are not even debating eliminating that double standard . indeed , if domestic commercial laws were applied internationally , perhaps an overwhelming majority of us firms within america would be guilty of dumping . so , developing countries worry that efforts to introduce beggar-thy-neighbor competition '' into trade negotiations will only make life even more difficult .
the libra project is dangerous like leo , and it will require government regulation to keep it from becoming a cancer . facebook is betting that libra will trigger a taurus market . for emerging economies , that would mean being cured of dollarization purely to catch an even worse case of libraization . if it does , libra will then have greatly complicated these countries ’ monetary and exchange-rate policies and helped trigger a period of slow growth and financial instability . but libra ’s benefits , for example , seem like a slippery as a comces .
for starters , rising inequality is less likely to be politically and socially disruptive in a high-growth environment ( think a 5-7 % annual rate ) than in low – or no-growth environments , where the incomes and opportunities of a subset are either stagnant or falling . the latter dynamic is now playing out in france , with last month ’s “ yellow vest ” protests . the added cost was not all that large ( around $ 0.30 per gallon ) , but fuel prices in france were already among the highest in europe ( roughly $ 7 per gallon , including existing taxes ) . there is little reason to believe that inclusiveness is changing the sustainability of growth patterns only in developing countries , though the specific dynamics are dependent on a few factors . the immediate cause of the protests has been a new fuel tax .
to divide the people to conquer them is an immoral strategy that has endured throughout recorded history . from alexander the great to stalin cruder , variants of that strategy have been used to hold nations in thrall to the will of the emperor . we now see this strategy at work again as president vladimir putin stealthily seeking to restore kremlin supremacy over land treated as “ lost ” when the ussr imploded in 1991 . in so overplays his hand in ukraine ’s recent election , however , putin has clearly exposed to the world of his own neo-imperialist designs . in the wake of the euphoric mass protests in kyiv , russia ’s president has since said that he could work with whatever government ukraine chooses .
skinner interprets this narrowly , focusing on the need for america ’s nato allies to increase their defense expenditures . in any case , the trump doctrine ’s active ingredient is burden-sharing . what it fails to acknowledge is that america is also pushing the rest of the world to share the burden of its unsustainable structural saving deficit . indeed , america is consistently running both a fiscal deficit – with total spending ( of which defense comprised 14.8 % in 2017 ) well above its revenue – and a current-account deficit . if those twin deficits have ran at a trend rate of well over 3 % of gdp per annum , the net us debt to the rest of the world currently is likely to double in less than 24 years .
consider , for example , how recent innovations were threatening the export-oriented industrialization strategy that fueled many developing-country growth in recent decades . by benefiting plentiful , low-cost labor , developing countries were able to increase their share of global manufacturing activity , create jobs , attract investment , and , in some cases , restart a broader industrialization process . but , to encourage firms that grasped the opportunity to cut costs by shifting production to the developing world , there has always been a trade-off : offshore production has meant a limited capacity to respond quickly to changes in consumer demand . now , with technologies might offer another option . by investing in “ additive manufacturing , ” ” ” ” robots and other non-human tools , companies could shift their production sites closer to their end-markets .
for instance , joyce , my ex-workmate , has a diehard husband who is the diehard manchester united fan . she has changed her furniture , at least twice since her married day four years ago . couches are her beer , and kicked as she swindled her favorite teams . even wives of the husbands who watch the games at home have had other issues to settle for solutions . couches are cartic , and kicked as it pretend to be his favorite teams .
increasingly , such protagonists have also become the focus of academic attention , cultural criticism , and popular culture itself . the idea that a murderous monster might symbolize a protester or outcast , and therefore deserve sympathy , originated in former french philosophers gilles deleuze and pierre-status élix guattari . that set the stage for paradigmatic shift in the understanding of homicidal monsters like the other . in fact , any monster has not yet been seen as a potential conveyor of revolutionary ideas ? challenging rené girard ’s explanation of the origins of irrational violence and hatred against another – ethnic or religious group who has been demonized and victimized – deleuze , and guattari has extended the concept of otherness to vampire .
copenhagen – discussions about global warming are labeled by the increasing desire to stamp out “ happiness , ” to the point of questioning the value of democratic debate . while science has shown that co2 from fossil fuels is heating up the planet , policymakers remain reluctant to follow the advice , stopping the construction of coal-fired power plants . but , closing discussion simply implies the disappearance of reason from public policy . in march , al gore ’s adviser and prominent climate researcher , jim hansen , proclaimed that when it comes to dealing with global warming , the “ democratic process does not work . ” hansen argues that , “ the first action that people should take is to benefit from a democratic process .
campaign-finance laws have been revised to provide additional government financing to parties that meet a quota and reduce volumes for parties that do not . and though south korea slipped to 80th place in the ipu ’s most recent rankings , the drop reflects subsequent growth in the share of female legislators in other countries . according to the inter-parliamentary union ( ipu ) , that election pushed south korea from 101st to 62nd place worldwide in terms of the share of female mps , well ahead of the 121st-ranked japan . a major reason for the increase in female mps ’ party was the establishment of a quota system , under which south korea ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s political parties should ensure that 30 % of their candidates are female . the rise of women mps has led not just to increased female cabinet members , but also to diverse policies and institutional improvements that focus explicitly on women .
for bingham , the law must be accessible and accepted – insofar as the current necessity – intelligible , a clear , and , indeed , predictable . courts and other formal adjudicative bodies should provide equitable procedures . all should be governed as law , insulated from the personal latitude of those in power , and legal disputes should be settled without a prohibitive cost or inordinate delay . to be sure , there should be equality before the law , combined with an adequate protection of fundamental human rights . moreover , state power should be exercised reasonably , in good faith , and for the purposes to which it has been respected , with an independent judiciary and the judicial review of legislation ensuring that the government does not exceed the limits of its authority .
in france , the national front , which finished second in the 2002 presidential election , has been revitalized under marine le pen . it is the extreme right that has benefited the most from polish centrists ’ failures . in finland , the heresy party to liberty wields enough power to play the kingmaker ; without his or her support , a minority , and a minority , liberal government would have collapsed . nor is such a backlash confined to eurozone members . in the netherlands , geert wilders ’ freedom party wields enough power to play the kingmaker ; without his support , a minority , and liberal government would have collapsed .
a fourth factor , obviously , is german business interests . german firms are making large amounts of money in the so-called visegrád four – the czech republic , hungary , poland , hungary , slovakia , which together amount to germany , with russia , the world ’s largest trade partner . on their own , hungary is germany ’s 14th-largest trade partner , in terms of both us exports and imports . but , here , the hungarian tail is wagering on the german dog . the eu pays turkey as a whole into euros , while seehofer pays orbán by tolerating failed policies that no german politician should .
brussels – a new controversy has emerged between the european union and a few of its main trade partners since the eu decided to include in its co2 emission-control scheme all eu flights to and from its territory , including transcontinental flights . airlines will be required to acquire emission permits for these flights ’ co2 emissions . the ceos of aircraft manufacturer airbus and the leading european airline have urged european leaders to take a step in with them . in fact , china and the united states , for their part , are outraged . indeed , chinese airlines have delayed orders to purchase european aircraft .
when we in government looked closely at the risks to london as the european financial center from being outside , we concluded that there was no compelling case that it could do much to hurt the us . but we were never in no doubt that being out of europe altogether was a completely different matter . yes , special arrangements could be negotiated , but each had to be negotiated individually . and , for a record , norway is a major net contributor to the eu budget , the price of it negotiating , despite being a member . i doubt that other european countries would enable britain to operate like some offshore center on europe ’s periphery , free from europe ’s responsibilities but participating fully in its opportunities .
it has also highlighted the rapid pace of epidemiological transition in middle-income countries and the persistence of communicable , maternal , new-born , and nutritional illnesses in sub-saharan africa . but the gbd could have done more to inform policy debates and spur action to improve health if it were to yield more detailed data breakdowns . to help decision-makers make better use of their data , an institute for health metrics and assessment that i lead provides geospatial maps of disease campaigns with a groundbreaking level of resolution . estimates of local disease burdens will be essential to fighting afflictions like ebola , check out the rising toll of non-communicable diseases in middle-income countries , and meeting sustainable development goals related to maternal and child health in sub-saharan africa . policymakers are accountable , first and foremost , to their constituents whose unique needs they must meet .
according to a study by goldman sachs , countries like greece , portugal , and spain would need to become 20-30 % cheaper , and german prices would have to rise by 20 % relative to the eurozone average . from that perspective , crisis countries would not be spared painful retrenchment as long as they remained in a monetary union comprising competitive countries . to be sure , if germany were to abandon the common currency , the road back to competitiveness would be easier for the southern countries , as rump euro would undergo devaluation ; but the crisis countries on a fundamental problem would remain as long as other competitive countries remain in the eurozone as a whole . spain , for example , would still have to cut its prices by 22-24 % , relative to the new eurozone average . the only way to avoid it would have been for them to exit the euro and devalue their new currencies .
another issue that risks being overlooked in focusing on urgent , immediate financial relief is coastal communities ’ long-term economic needs . to be sure , immediate relief is vitally important : ockhi has freed up everyday operations in some coastal areas , causing severe economic ( not to mention emotional ) distress for the region ’s poor fishing communities . but perhaps it is time to consider whether it is fair to condemn these communities to their long-term dependence on mutual fishing . one way to bolster india ’s disaster-response capabilities would be to develop the marine equivalent of the us territorial army , practicing chosen fisherfolk in how to carry out search-and-rescue operations . such training , coupled with student affinities for their fellow fishers and their braving expertise to the turbulent seas , would make the demand for an extremely effective buffer zone , to be deployed once disaster strikes .
ramallah – the united states should stop pushing for a palestinian-israeli peace process . make no mistake : it is not an invitation to arms , or appeals to violent uprising . but if a single party is more interested in a process than in making the need for peace , something needs to be done . doing so may be the best way to achieve peace – an ugly paradox , reflecting the vast gulf between the peace process and achieving a genuine peace process . peacekeeping between the conflicting parties of the mediterranean and the west of the jordan river can and must be achieved through negotiations .
but the collapse of communism in 1989 and the chance to overcome the continent 's ’s ’s ’s historical divisions now required a redefinition of the european project . the two world wars and the cold war were shaped by european integration as a project for peace ; defense of the west ’s ’s ’s fundamental values ; and shared economic prosperity . the treaties of maastricht ( 1992 ) and amsterdam ( 1997 ) created a new organizational structure for the eu and laid the foundations for political institutions in which europe was equated with economic power . but the collapse of communism in 1989 and the chance to transcend the continent , now required redefining the european project . the treaty of nice ( 2000 ) was the result of a rather poor compromise .
whenever i arrive in moscow , i am struck by its new store of shops and buildings . yet another key factional aspect of the yeltsin era -- its rollicking debates -- has fallen silent . part of the explanation for this has been increased official control , a part is the declining public interest , and part of it is that russia ’s problems nowadays simply seem less urgent . after the authorities seized influence over independent television networks , ntv and tv6 , russia ’s media became thoroughly duller . the most recent fad is to claim that officials are prosecuting libel newspapers for more than $ 1 million .
true , the united states is not denmark . but it is not wrong to ask what is making scandinavian welfare economies so prosperous , and what americans can learn from them . one need not be an economist to grasp that a country ’s wealth depends , to a large degree , on the proportion of the population that is doing productive work in higher-value jobs . the short answer is that the scandinavian countries provide jobs that pay enough wages to sustain a healthy , happy life . according to oecd country rankings , the top seven countries worldwide have welfare economies .
berkeley – on my desk right now is columbia timothy noah ’s new book the great divergence : america ’s rising crisis of inequality and what can be done about it , and milton and elevated director friedman ’s classical free to choose : personal pronouncements . their case for small-government libertarianism rested mostly on such claims , and has now mostly crumbled because the world turned out to be proved , disagreed with them about the way that business works . consider them together , my crushing conviction is that friedmans would find their task to justify and advocating an small-governmental libertarianism far harder today than they did in 1979 . back then , friedmans made three powerful factual claims about how the world works – claims that seemed true , or , at least , arguably true at a time but that now looks pretty superficially false . the initial claim was that macroeconomic distress comes from a government , rather than an unstable private market , or , rather that the form of macroeconomic regulation required to produce economic stability was straightforward and easily achieved .
according to the african union ’s high-level panel on illicit flows , chairing former south african president thabo mbeki , africa loses more than $ 50 billion every year from illicit financial outflows . the g20 and the oecd have already outlined measures to counter tax-avoidance methods , such as base erosion and profit shifting . the g20 should now follow through on that commitment and establish a clear timetable for ending fossil-fuel subsidies , including full transparency regarding such spending from 2017 onward , and prohibiting exploration and production subsidies by 2018 . second , the g20 must commit to combating tax evasion and unraveling the murky system of transnational tax havens and shell companies ( brought to light earlier this year by the panama papers ) used to pump money out of africa . g20 members should reinforce tax disclosure requirements , prevent the creation of shell companies , intensify efforts to combat money laundering , and establish corporate ownership laws .
most immediately , unit two in south ukraine will reach that point in less than three weeks , which means that the snriu must now decide whether to grant unit a 20-year lifetime extension of ukraine . though this contravenes ukraine of ’s responsibility , as a signatory to the espoo convention , to conduct a cross-poo convention of environmental-impact assessments ( not to mention missing a opportunity to view potential alternatives to continued operation of the reactor ) , no such analysis is widely expected to take place . three of ukraine ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s nuclear-energy units are currently operating beyond their lifetime ’s design lifetime , with nine more set to reach the end of their intended lifetime ’s lifetime within the next five years . last month , campaign groups in neighboring countries wrote to their representatives at the ebrd , requesting that the bank suspend its support for revitalizing ukraine ’s nuclear plants until a cross-border assessment takes place . the snriu will make that critical choice without key information about the health and ecological risks that the reactor poses to ukraine and its neighbors .
curitiba , brazil , has introduced a new model for urban food production . and oslo has created a climate budget to guide financial decision-making . at the business level , more than 700 firms with comprehensive market capitalization of more than $ 16 trillion have achieved far-reaching climate commitments , according to the we mean business coalition . and 289 investors , holding almost $ 30 trillion in assets , have signed on to climate engineering $ 100 + , a five-year initiative to engage the world with the largest corporate greenhouse-gas emitters to improve climate-change governance , to boost emissions , and to reinforce climate-related financial actors . as a result , global green bond issuance could reach $ 300 billion this year .
already , some indonesians are nostalgic for the suharto new order . but this was no recipe for restoring stability and boosting growth . to succeed in restoring a robust growth path , east asia must deliver justice for more than individual human-rights violations . as proponents of asian values have argued , it is the need for all human rights – civil and political as well as social and economic – to be reinforced . if not , advocates of democracy and human rights will face a backlash .
by contrast , a virtuous chinese saving a huge share of their incomes had been castigated by western economists for their failure to see that their duty to humanity was to spend . the main uncertainty in life – a destination for the debt-fueled economy – was the redefinition of uncertainty as risk . to be sure , this was the principal achievement of mathematical economics itself . whereas guarding against uncertainty had traditionally been a moral issue , hedging against risk is a purely technical question . the major uncertainty in the shift to debt-fueled economy was the redefinition of uncertainty as risk .
having excluded a grand coalition with the either anti-establishment five star movement , or former prime minister silvio berlusconi ’s center-left labour party , bersani will depend on senators ’ willingness to support specific measures . but this approach is an inefficient and unstable one . as a result , italy – plus the european union – is heading toward the type of political and financial turmoil that followed greece ’s general election last may , when a similar inability to produce a parliamentary majority forced the next election the following month . the cyprus crisis , which threatens to cause the country ’s banking system to collapse and force cyprus out of the eurozone , could make the situation even more difficult to manage . italy and greece have much in common , beginning with their institutional malaise .
for example , in the 1980s , america entered into such agreements with foreign automobiles , micro-chip , steel , lumber , and machine-learning manufacturers . yet , just a couple of years ago , america ’s auto industry pushed for a requirement in the trade deal , which would have granted it a minimal market share of us exports to south korea . some of the terms imposed then have since been banned by the world trade organization . trump seems likely to dust off these tools further . if trump wants to block production from moving overseas and spur foreign investment from abroad , us firms may soon see us companies pushed to agree voluntarily to outsourcing restrictions and localization requirements .
america ’s population today is just 4.4 % of the world ’s population . and the us is per capita emissions that are higher than in any other large country by far . according to the world resource institute data , america accounted for astounding 26.6 % of global greenhouse-gas emissions from 1850 to 2013 . in short , it is america , where per capita emissions have always been a few times higher than the world average , which owes what world climate justice is , rather than the other way around . the paris accord does not victimize the us ; on the contrary , the us has world-beating responsibility to get its house to order .
since then , china ’s stock market had been a global laggard , which was until the end of last year , when it became the world ’s best performing , rising by more than 150 % . that rise was preceded by a loss of almost a third of the market ’s value , from mid-june 2009 through early july . and yet the roller-coaster pattern continues to this day : the 8.5 % plunge came at a time when the market was re-opening the monday that followed the largest two-day rise since the 2008 financial crisis . and that volatility is the other reason why the casino metaphor applies : china ’s stock market might eventually rise or fall by double-digit digits , without triggering a broader economic crash – that is , at least so far . for starters , china ’s gdp growth went intact ( actually growing at almost 10 % in the decade ) , when the us stock market lost half of its value from 2001 to 2005 , or , for that matter when the market then recovered ( only to drop again after the 2008 financial crisis ) .
on the one hand , one can be found in the fact that the horde of nativists , white supremacists , and the neo-confederates who descended on charlottesville , virginia , in august to crack down on some of the black and jewish heads of state . the conversation once again turned to macron . i have tried to explain that his mark phrase , en même temps ( at the same time ) , which usually heard here as an expression of american-style pragmatism , may instead have been one of the most visible traces of his doctrinal proximity over the french protestant philosopher paul ricœur . far from reflecting careful deliberation over an ambiguous choice , “ at the same time ” ” ” is someone ’s credo suspended in fear and gauntlet before the unsolvable and terrifying “ mystery ” of a two-nature – physical and spiritual , mortal , and resurrected – of a tormented body of christ . but very soon , we arrive at the question of anti-semitism in america .
santiago – now that populists come to power in the west , a conflict over the intellectual ownership of their approaches is brewing . in the twentieth century , perón and “ vargas , ” plus alan garcía in perú ( at least during his first term ) , daniel ortega in nicaragua and salvador allende in chile , peru , and a number of others , engaged in trade protectionism , ran large budget deficits , overheated their economies , allowed for a rise in inflation , and finally afflicted currency crises . writers like john judis argue that nineteenth-century americans were creating political populism , with its anti-elitist stance and inflammatory rhetoric . argentines , who gave the world über-populist juan domingo perón or the brazilians , who led the us getúlio vargas , may beg to differ . yet there can be little disagreement with the fact that latin americans were the longest and best practitioners of economic populism .
what is remarkable is that it has now lasted for so long . yet it was this recent declaration to the us congress by secretary of defense robert gates , which has been particularly shocking to israelis . he has expressed an understanding of iran ’s desire to acquire nuclear weapons because , he said , iranians are being surrounded by nuclear powers like pakistan , india , russia , and israel . israel is bound to struggle against this emerging new american doctrine , equating it with iran , or even with india and pakistan for that matter . political contexts matter ; israelis , too , would argue .
abidjan – on december 2 , côte d’ivoire ’s independent national electoral commission ( cei ) declared opposition leader , alassane ouattara , the winner of the country ’s november presidential election , with 54.1 % of the vote . one day after the results was announced , the country ’s own constitutional council , headed by gbagbo ’s close ally paul yoao n’n’dre , annulled the results from seven of the northern departments declaring gbagbo the winner of the election with 51 % of the vote . the incumbent , laurent gbagbo , won 45.9 % of the vote . the decision , reached in less than 24 hours , left a large number of ivorians flabbergasted . the united states , the european union , canada , and the united nations secretary-general all congratulated ouattara and invited gbagbo to respect the people ’s will .
new york – unlike last year , when a rush home for lunar new year ’s celebration was hampered by freak storms , millions of migrant workers have already returned to their rural homes . many will stay there , because the worldwide economic downturn has hit china hard , costing them what they are doing . fast approaching is not only the march anniversary of last year ’s ’s ’s disturbances in tibet , but also the 50th anniversary of the tibetan unrest in 1959 that led to the exile of the dalai lama and his supporters . since the riots last spring , china ’s government has pursued many pro-active measures , even adopting a “ womanhood liberation day , ” to defend its record in tibet by the previous 50 years , while continuing to speak with the dalai lama ’s interlocutors . littered with an immensely token anniversaries , 2009 could prove even more dramatic and unpredictable than the 2008 disaster .
managing the deficit required difficult decisions – from reforming a welfare system and increasing the state ’s pension age to controlling public-sector salaries . but i always believed that a country can not make itself richer by writing its checks on its own . a government that lives within its means was a necessary condition of securing the economy for the long term – but not enough . success also requires adopting bold steps to tear down trade barriers and open its economy to investment from a fast-growing one like china and india . success also requires adopting bold steps to tear down trade barriers and open its economy to investment from a fast-growing one like china and india .
indeed , the recent us boom in some parts of the developing world shows just that . conversely , de-industrialization , and concentration of growth in formal services are a proven recipe for failure , as has been demonstrated by most developing countries ’ sorry experience over the last few decades . second , while pushing the technological frontier is the critical component of growth in industrial countries , what matters for developing countries is the transformation of manufacturing and export structures , particularly by shifting resources to higher-productivity activities . the key to achieving it is the capacity to diversify domestic production , through generating new activities , strengthening country-based economic linkages , and creating new domestic technological capabilities . building the industrial and modern service industries is critical to successful diversification , something that is needed .
today , few know where this term “ globalization ” originated . the word was used earlier , but in a rather different sense . the oxford english dictionary gives a earliest reference to its contemporary possessions in 1972 . oed etymology neglects the non-english origins of the term to be found in the inventive linguistic terminology of continental european student radicalism . it was the diplomatic term conveying a linkage between incoherent policy areas ( in bargaining simultaneously on financial-sector and security issues ) .
the best “ grave consequences ” on which the un security council warned should iraqis to comply with their commitments would be an even more intense effort to destroy their own illicit weapons through continuous inspections of the country ’s offensive military capabilities : the inspectors , not the invaders . achieving this extraordinary feat was a credible threat of war . but , precisely because it is so exceptional , it is hard to see how implementing these threats by initiating war might make any sense at all possible . without its decisiveness , backed by a highly credible show of military force and skillfully lasting peace , iraqi military programs would not now be subject to scrutiny in a more intensive way than that applied to any other would-be proliferator in the world today . if they were exposed in iraq as having lied and cheated that would be an acknowledgement of the effectiveness of the inspections , scarcely a justification for military reprisals .
clearly , cyber technologies are very different from nuclear technologies , particularly because non-governmental actors are able to exploit it far more easily . while their vision of “ information security ” might legitimize authoritarian governments ’ censorship and thus be unacceptable to democratic governments , identifying and target behaviors that are illegal everywhere . limiting all intermingsions would be impossible , but one could start with conventional cyber crime and cyber terrorism . major states would have an interest in limiting damage , by agreeing to collaborate on forensics and controls . of course , historical analogies are imperfect ; there is , where it might be conducted easily .
most of the debt is owed within the state system , – for example , by state-owned enterprises ( soes ) to state-owned banks – and the government could simply write off bad debts and recapitalize the banks , funding operations with either borrowed or printed money . alternatively , the banks could perpetually roll over existing debt , permanently extending new loans to service old debt . but , as some chinese policymakers respond , all the growth processes involve waste : nineteenth-century railroad booms in britain and america created massive excess overcapacity and investor losses , even as they spurred economic transformation . indeed , with bank fail to impose hard budget constraints on financially unsustainable enterprises , and with the planning system incapable of imposing alternative effective discipline , china is already awash in apartment blocks in third-tier cities that will never be occupied , and by huge overcapacity in heavy industry . to be sure , this would produce a squandered investment .
moreover , namibia ’s government has wisely understood that plentiful natural resources can easily become a curse , enriching a few at the expense of the numerous . they also know that it would be irresponsible not to garner for namibians the most efficient land , and to be rethinking investment laws and revisiting mining contracts in order to ensure that it does so . transparency is critical to this process , which is precisely why the government has been so strong promoting press freedom . as president hage geingob has told the us since then , the press often says things that it does n’t like . the authorities know that unless namibia ’s natural wealth is invested in infrastructure and its people ’s productive capacity , resource depletion will leave the country poorer , not richer .
the good news is that cyprus ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s newly elected president , nicos anastasiades , may be open to such an agenda . naturally , much will depend on how it fares politically in the current turmoil surrounding the bailout package . it is not unimaginable that this kind of cooperation could be extended to include other neighbors around the levant . anastasiades , a member of the pro-european dimokratikós sinayermós ( democratic rally ) party , won 57 % of the popular vote on a platform that emphasized economic recovery , and this , naturally , would be his top priority . to be sure , an prudent look beyond the current turbulence – and into anastasiades ’s history – provides grounds for optimism .
but the bottom line is that , at a time when everyone is asking , “ what is europe doing ? ” yet the bottom line is that europe ’s dynamic public face . it is not the structure that is conducive to political coups de theâtre , and much of the commission is the eu ’s relentless grind to regulation and re-regulation . for reasons that are now obscure , there is an unwritten rule , which commission presidents must be brought from the ranks of past or current prime ministers . the commission ’s own internal culture of ghosts and red tape is a constraint that nobody in brussels much likes to debate .
but it is not at all obvious that the uk provides such security , particularly now that it is on a path toward leaving the eu ’s single market and customs union . as scotland confronts the strategic challenges of brexit , it will also have an opportunity to develop policies that are better suited to it . britain chose to leave the eu , because it had an outsized view of itself . but it will soon have to follow a small-country model like that of switzerland or norway . independence would enable scotland to develop policies that are more in line with other successful small economies – not least by retaining eu membership .
second , with china so influential global demand driver ( both directly and indirectly through important network effects ) , the outlook for the world ’s second-largest economy has disproportionately implications for projections of global corporate income . and , as china ’s excessive domestic credit boom and an shadow-banking system draw increased attention , too many companies are becoming anxious . third , while companies are recognizing that innovation has a key comparative advantage in today ’s global economy , they are humbled with their increasingly winner-take-all nature as well . as a result , many companies , less convinced that “ conventional ” innovations yields big payoffs , end up investing less overall than they did in the past . successful innovation today owes much less to finance , and much more to finding a “ killer app . ”
stockholm – it has been one year since turkey ’s failed coup , and questions about the country ’s future have still abound . but the putschists ’ failure to detain president recep tayyip erdoğan , who has then mobilized his own supporters , sealed the fate of his country ’s coup . in the last year , ’s attempted coup d’état was nothing , not dramatic . mutinous f-16 fighters bombed the turkish parliament , and 249 people lost their lives . were the coup not stymied within their first 48 hours , turkey probably would slip into a devastating and violent civil war , with consequences that would have extended well beyond its borders .
seoul – once again , tension is rising across asia over north korea ’s missile program . the united states , japan , and south korea have already publicly denounced the launch as a “ provocative act ” and the violation of united nations security council resolutions 1718 , adopted in october 2006 , just five days after north korea ’s conducted nuclear-weapons tests . the question for the world now is not whether the north korean regime will launch its missile , but what will happen afterward . but , rather than hot rhetoric , what is needed now is cool-headed assessments of the military-related consequences of the missile launch . in contrast to its previous “ surprise ” missile launches , north korea ’s administration , this time has notified international agencies of officials in advance that it would launch a “ satellite ” sometime between april 4 and 8:8 .
and it has just held the first round of a new us presidential election that meets european high standards of freedom and fairness . in the event , neither russia ’s closest ally would agree to recognize those occupied territories , or to legitimize its invasion . the eu deserves some credit for that outcome , and it does not want to be able to muster . it has now been a decade since the eu launched its eastern partnership , which has established a more robust framework for the bloc ’s cooperation with armenia , azerbaijan , belarus , georgia , moldova , and ukraine . that initiative , it is worth recalling , was partly a response to russia ’s invasion of georgia preceding summer , when the kremlin tried to dismember that country by recognizing south ossetia and abkhazia as independent states .
the brexit referendum will point the way , both for the uk and for the eu as a whole . it will follow the eu as soon as it sighs of forbearance ( as i hope ) , or as cataclysm that rocks the eu to its core and brings disaster to the uk . but , however well the british decide , europe of its multiple crises must be tackled . without a renewed vision of europe and an effective approach to crisis management , the continent ’s new ( and old ) nationalists will continue to gain in power and endanger the entire project of peaceful integration based on the rule of law . a policy of baby steps simply will not suffice .
chicago – now that the dust has settled over the selection of the international monetary fund ’s managing director , the imf may be back to its core crisis-management entrepreneurial of crisis management . while the criminal case against dominique strauss-kahn on sexual-assault charges now looks highly precarious , the imf ’s ensuing press focus suggests an unhinged international bureaucracy with unlimited up-front accounts , dominated by men with little sense of restraint . fortunately , the truth is this , more prosaic will be the . christine lagarde , a competent and well-regarded technocrat , will hold her hands full with three important challenges . the first , and probably the simplest , challenge is to restore the imf ’s public image .
the rise of the monetary base , however , is only temporary ; when the bonds are redeemed , it reverts to its previous level . this eventual need to shrink the monetary base to a monetary base is an implicit claim on a central bank ’s asset holdings ; hence , the rise is rightly felt as a liability on its balance sheet . because holders of distributed money hold no claim on a central bank , the rise of the monetary base should not be viewed as just a liability , but as an increase in a central bank ’s net worth . in other words , helicopter money is not interest-free credits for government ; it ’s a gift . under helicopter money , however , the central bank never has to reverse the increase in its monetary base .
brazil ’s severe summer market jitters , during which the country ’s risk index suddenly topped nigeria ’s and short-lived credits for international trade dried up , began to change the face of election . with sarney off , lula reigned supreme in the polls , reaching a 43 % in mid-may . her party accused serra of orchestrating an attack , and in revenge , of her worker ’s party -- the liberal front -- threw its support to ciro gomes . gomes used tv hours to reach his three-party labor alliance in late june to great effect , but most of the credit his rise in opinion polls to that of his second wife , the popular actress patricia pillar , recovering from breast cancer . then , in early july , gomes skyrocketed to just 28 % , within a striking distance from lula , who had shrunk to 33 % .
claremont , california – although accelerating the violence in hong kong seems frightening enough , things may be about to get far worse . the communiqué of the just-concluded may fourth plenum ’s 19th national central committee of the chinese communist party ( cpc ) indicates that chinese president xi jinping is planning to tighten his grip on a former british colony at all costs . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world .
moreover , regional tensions – including escalating political instability in algeria , and the thorny issue of western sahara – hampered integration in the maghreb , absolute necessity to unlocking prosperity in north africa . and yet , despite the challenges it faces , morocco has shown strong leadership on some of the country ’s most pressing issues today . it has become a global green-energy leader , committed in 2015 to increasing its share of renewables generation to more than 52 % by 2030 – one of the world ’s most ambitious goals . to be sure , these shortcomings partly reflect enduring weaknesses in governance , despite important political reforms , notably the constitutional changes that shifted powers from a monarch to a parliament , and legislation like aligning legislation with european and international human rights standards , as well as progress on family law and gender equality . it has since been a vocal champion of counter-extremism initiatives , including responsible religious education , far beyond its own borders .
after all , there is little reason to believe that the fiscal compact , or the proposed “ debt brakes ” , will succeed where both the maastricht criteria and the sgp failed . misplaced hope that they can resolve the enforcement problem by enshrining the fiscal compact in member states ’ constitutions , might be based on a misunderstanding of america ’s system . to be sure , america ’s federal government never fired a state , 49 of which ( all but vermont ) had laws or constitutional provisions limiting deficit spending . to use eurobonds as a mechanism to prick the large sovereign-debt overhang jeopardizes the longer-term goal of eliminating moral hazard : it offers absolution of precisely 60 % – of-gdp margin of which countries would have the greatest trouble resisting the temptation . instead , rules need a plausible enforcement mechanism .
but , as the trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights ( trips ) entered into force in 1995 , every world trade organization member state has had to recognize one other ’s pharmaceutical patents . nonetheless , following amendments to indian patents act , india still has some safeguards to avoid the kind of excesses that major pharmaceutical companies routinely get with in the u.s. and europe . india , for example , abides by a stricter definition of what constitutes an invention that prevents “ evergreening ” : the process broadening the patent ’s life by making secondary patents for marginal improvements to the former drug . according to section 3 ( d ) of indian patents act , “ the sheer discovery of new form … ownership or … application for a known substance , or the application of just the application of a known process ” is not qualified for a patent unless it “ results in a new product or employs at least one new reactant . ” to indian drug policymakers , manufacturing generic versions of high-priced drugs would require licensing , and such licenses are seldom if ever taken for granted .
according to data from brazil ’s national institute for space research , the deforestation of brazil ’s ’s ’s portion of amazon ’s was up to 88 % year on year in june . but bolsonaro does not want to continue the amazonian chaste ; he simply wants to be among those exploiting it . his promotion of the rainforests and attacks on environmental regulation has led , for example , to roil agribusiness , especially cattle ranching and illegal logging . foreign actors who criticize brazil ’s exploitation of its rainforests – from european governments to pope francis – are promoting biodiversity only in order to exploit it in the future . with his characteristic misogyny , he recently proclaimed that brazil is like the virgin that every foreign pervert wants .
to be sure , there are notable differences between north korea and iran . most obvious , iran ’s nuclear program has not taken off , whereas north korea – which , unlike iran , unlike iran , withdrew from the non-proliferation treaty – already has an estimated 60 nuclear warheads and looks like it is making progress towards nuclear-tipped intercontinental ballistic missile capable of reaching american land . kim appears perfectly willing to subject the north koreans to privations of each sort to remain in power . in short , an all-out military conflict with north korea would entail imminent global risks . trump may have begun to recognize that rising pressure on north korea does not exclude sitting down to negotiate with kim .
a well-designed currency chapter within the tpp would not impede american monetary independence . a third argument against putting anti-manipulation provisions in the tpp is that they would imperil america ’s ability to implement monetary stimulus . no intervention in the foreign-exchange market – purchases and sell foreign currency – is involved . but this reflects a significant misunderstanding of the issue . conventional monetary policy operates by re-imposing short-term interest rates , which include a central bank buys and sells short-term government debt .
so it is ’s amusing to boast that one nation ’s own learning brand , whether experimental physics , math , or cosmology , is futile . but the joke would not have worked , had there not simultaneously been another , widely shared assumption that scientific knowledge has equaled any practical use of practical utility . after all , it would not have been amusing whether an nobel charity dedicated to famine relief celebrated its own ineffectiveness ; the practical value in that case would be paramount , for it was the only true cause of a charity to exist . so , although potential usefulness is a reason why individual governments dedicate so much money to scholarly research , people actually expect more from science than to do so . on this view , what stands for science also has a rather different , larger goal : understanding the natural world .
last year , us president barack obama ’s administration asked congress for $ 1.8 trillion in emergency funding to help prepare for and respond to the zika threat . but abortion politics has intervened , because republican lawmakers , led by congressional hearings on the zika outbreak , have made funding conditional on recipient countries ’ anti-abortion policies . the problems with the predominant approach to containing the zika virus – namely , that it saddles women with excessively high responsibilities , while giving them far too little power – are not lost on everyone . in fact , the position taken by the united states has not helped , either . last year , the united nations refugee agency and the world health organization emphasized the need to place human rights at the heart of their response to the zika outbreak .
such an approach needs to be communicated by both to the european public and to the people of tunisia , egypt , and other arab countries . if they become consolidated democracies as hoped , would-be entrepreneurs could end up worrying so much for official corruption . and start-up loans from europe would make it far easier to look for one ’s fortunes to come home . at a long last , such countries ’ demographics would be helped to meet their developmental needs . it would reverse the pattern whereby europe relies on repressive regimes to supply it with oil and gas , and to watch its borders vis-à-vis migrants .
but is this an exact description of slow-growing nations ? edmund phelps of columbia university says that these slow-growing countries lack the “ dynamism ” that he defines as combining the entrepreneurial spirit and the financiers to channel it . to be sure , what fit these today may become problematic tomorrow : europe and japan will face severe problems when their own demographic pyramids tilt toward the elderly , eliminating the temporary demographic advantage that they have in common with those of america today . but this is not what the travails of slow-growing countries ? both ghost and the necessary financial institutions need to be present in enabling “ creative destruction ” – the force that joseph schumpeter argued sixty years was the engine of capitalist prosperity – to unleash .
institutions are being torn apart , property rights are being challenged , and random , ever more corrupt , redistribution efforts are underway . lula 's popularity ignacia da silva and his team , which is leading in opinion polls in the run-up to brazil 's presidential election , serves as a warning that much of the latin american public stands ready to reject traditional governments . so far , lula and his party are outside the mainstream of the economic thinking and policies that capital has already begun to fleeing -- even as the elections are months away . in argentina , one bumbling president succeeds the next one . peru and venezuela hardly look better ; brazil may soon follow the same course .
by 2040 , in the iea ’s optimistic scenario , solar power in sub-saharan africa will produce $ 14kwh per person a year from now , less than what is needed to keep a unified two-watt led permanently lit . the iea also estimates that renewables will still cost more , on average , than those of any other source – oil , gas , nuclear , coal , or hydro – or even a carbon tax . few in the rich world would switch to zero-emissions renewables , and certainly nobody will cut them to the much fossil-fuel-powered grid that provides stable power on cloudy days and at night ( another form of subsidies ) . yet , western activists seem to believe that the world of the worst-off people should be satisfied with inadequate and irregular supplies of electricity . in its recent africa energy outlook , the iea estimates that africa ’s energy use will increase by 80 % by 2040 ; but , with the continent ’s population nearly doubling , with less energy per person .
according to market sources , total assets managed by the shadow banking system have risen exponentially since 2009 , totaling $ 14 trillion or one-third of gdp , during the third quarter of 2012 . yet talk in 2013 switched to the dangers of a resurgent housing bubble and the collapse of the shadow-banking system , consisting mainly of wealth-management firms and trust corporation , among others . with relatively slow growth , corporate profitability , upon which returns to the shadow-banking system ’s asset pools , has been low and falling . where , then , will the high returns from financial products provided by the shadow-banking system come from ? in 2011 and early 2012 , much discussed the crash in china ’s housing market followed , along with the chain-reaction defaults of underground credit networks and local-government finance platforms .
but , while industry faces the threat of bloated gasoline prices from around the world , its concerns closer to home are the eu ’s abundance and national energy regulations . by any reckoning , this is important industries that should not suffer from overregulation . europe ’s industries are afflicted by a similar problem . refining and petrochemicals sector supplies the eu with a large share of its fuel , as well as a major source of tax revenue . a downstream sector , together with fuels distribution , contributes a combined total of about € 240 billion annually to treasury coffers .
yet draining the poison from europe will require much more than scolding america and praying for trump ’s premature departure . in fact , certain eu leaders ’ approaches to issues like immigration are threatening to create the systemic problems that will tolerate long after trump has returned to life by golf courses and the bankruptcy courts . reasonable european leaders can be forgiven politely to send the uk down its way , so that it can turn its attention to threats to its long-term cohesion and fundamental values . the eu has always prided itself on being a community of values that protects minorities and welcomed the poor and downtrodden . the answer , it seems , is that its centrist chancellor , angela merkel , has pushed back against trump .
moreover , policymakers need to rethink much of the ideological super-structure erected on market-based fundamentalist assumptions . acknowledging such thoroughgoing fallibility may seem paralyzing , and the current political mood certainly appears to reflect that . but recognizing fallibility may actually be empowering , as it implies the possibility of improving both economics and politics . if the world is characterized by uncertainty and unpredictability , then pre-crisis economic theories – rational expectations , efficient markets , and money-– neutrality – must be revised . if the world is too complex and inherently unpredictable for either market or governments to achieve social goals , then new system of checks and balances must be designed so that political decision-making can constrain economic incentives and vice versa .
it is simply not feasible that highly leveraged governments can grow their way out of debt . nor can austerity alone suffice , as it would require countries to make such large fiscal adjustment – 5 % of gdp , in spain ’s case – that citizens are likely to resist them , as the greeks did . a more effective approach would employ a broader set of tools , including debt restructuring . similarly , it would be difficult – but not impossible – to reduce incentives , created by almost every country ’s fiscal regimes , for corporate leverage . governments must also work to reduce existing debt both – and the deficient global demand that it contributes .
much has been written about the extraordinary bonuses paid to investment bankers during the peak of the financial crisis . and others are more tangible , like simply shedding personal data in exchange for access to a service . but silicon valley ceos are hardly robin fruit , either . tech entrepreneurs might tell their investors they want to change the world , but many are intoxicated with the idea that the world will be better off as it sells on its store to the highest bidder . third , inequitable pay and incentive structures are bad for business .
likewise , khan ’s position in favor of gay marriage has won him a fatwa for apostasy from the fearsome executive imam of the bradford mosque . moreover , he never wavered on critical questions of legal and practical equality for women , or about expressing his dismay at the increasing numbers of niqabs and hijra now see on the london of the streets – which prevent people , he notes , from speaking face to face . one might even say that no less could be expected of a labour leader with a bright future in churchill ’s homeland . but one must still follow through , admitted that khan had not yielded on these issues to facile communitarianism common on the far other side of the channel . to do so , such a principle is indispensable .
psd2 , often described as “ open banking , ” requires banks to offer their customer data to non-bank providers of payments and account information services . aggregators can then present the customer with an integrated view of their finances and offering add-on services . perhaps the time to assess the financial-stability risk of open banking was in the consultation period before the directive was passed . in europe , regulatory changes like the second payments service directive ( psd2 ) were crucial in opening up the banking system , and regulators like the united kingdom ’s financial-conduct authority have for some time been running the regulatory sandboxes to smooth out the way for new entrants by helping them to structure themselves to comply with the standards . even now , the fsb ’s contributors to work show that it was the european commission and key regulators in europe and north america .
consider finland , a nordic country that has been endowed with many trees for its small population . an classical economist would argue that , given this , the country should export the timber that finland has made . a traditional development economist , by contrast , would argue that it should not export timber ; instead , it should add value by turning timber into paper or furniture , something that finland , too , does . but all of finland ’s wood-related products represent barely 20 % of finland ’s exports . some ideas are worse than wrong : they are castrating , because they interpret the world in ways that emphasizes secondary issues – say , the availability of raw material – and blinds societies to the superior opportunities that might lie elsewhere .
this more profound transformation , as opposed to the low-hanging fruit eyed today by many policymakers , offers the only climate safety path ( that is , staying below the 2ºc limit ) . deep decarbonization will require not natural gas and fuel-efficient vehicles , but zero-carbon electricity and electric vehicles that charge one ’s zero-carbon electricity grid . by pursuing coal to gasoline or , more efficient gas-burning vehicles , we risk throwing ourselves into the high-carbon trap . we need to reach zero-emission vehicles , rather than more efficient gas-burning vehicles , especially given that the number of vehicles worldwide could easily double by mid-century . we need to get around $ 50 / kilowatt-hour by 2050 , rather than $ 500 grams an kilowatt-hour .
rather than becoming agents of change , they often make it impossible to change . to succeed , conglomerates need government support and embrace society . but ensuring such support requires policies that nudge ( or even shove ) conglomerates toward export industries that can grow beyond domestic market-– sector-country industries , which foster discipline that they lack as a result of dominating local markets . ( indeed , the big economic debate in south korea nowadays concerns whether the chaebols are stifling innovation by preventing startup competitors from challenging them . ) at the same time , the productive transformation that developing countries need is far easier to accomplish with support , rather than obstruction , their conglomerates .
which is iran doing in yemen , lebanon , iraq , and , above all , syria ? what , then , is iran doing in yemen , lebanon , iraq , and , above all , syria ? to be sure , the working groups might be created to try to develop a common narrative . does it really see itself , as many sunni arabs assert , as the protector of the shia arabs ? the negotiations would also have to cover contemporary issues , including the tour d’horizon of contemporary hotspots .
because china would be the world ’s most important future market , it would be determined in determining not only what the us produces and consume , but also by how . domestically , china would be the first country that , because of its sheer size and required gdp growth , is being compelled to pursue a “ green ” economy . otherwise , it would quickly reach china ’s “ limits to growth , ” with its disastrous location and its political consequences . consider the shift from the traditional automobile state to electric transportation . despite european illusions to the contrary , this would be decided in china , not western china .
first , the ecb ’s renewed bond purchases must state openly with the clear intention of lowering sovereign interest rates to sustainable levels that are at least 200 basis points below their july averages . a high-level german diplomat reportedly dismissed spain ’s ’s ’s ’s 6.5-7 % interest rate recently , on the grounds that spain had borrowed at nearly equal rates in the 1990 ’s . but that statement , bizarrely , ignored spain ’s higher pre-euro inflation rate – thus confusing both real and nominal rates – and ever-faster gdp growth . for countries following the agreed reform programs , the ecb should be committing to bringing down interest rates to levels compatible with projected inflation and growth rates , to announce how long ( say , nine months ) this will continue . a sporadic program without such announced targets is unlikely to work , and might even be counterproductive , because private-sector investors might well require even higher returns , because a growing ecb stock would be thought senior , augmenting its risk .
but that rule succumbed rather quickly to violent money-demand shocks , even though friedman ’s generic argument , that a credible commitment to low inflation requires favoring rules over discretionary , remains hugely influential . inflation targeting was best known as the rule by mandate to mandate central banks to set – and to try their best way to time out – to a target range for an annualized rate of change in the consumer price index ( cpi ) . close cousins included in targeting the price level , rather than the rate of inflation and targeting of core inflation ( the cpi minus volatile food and energy prices ) . there were also proponents of a flexible inflation-targeting targeting , who held that it was okay to put some weight on short-term real gdp growth , so long as there was an obvious longer-term target for cpi inflation . but some felt that the importance of defining it has been stretched too far .
because a solid ’s labor costs are someone else ’s labor income and demand , what is individually rational for a single firm is destructive in the aggregate . but offshoring jobs weakens final demand further , because it reduces labor income and increases inequality . in the us , for example , slashing labor costs sharply decreased labor ’s share of income . now , firms in advanced economies are cutting jobs , owing to inadequate final-demand management , which has resulted in excess capacity , and uncertainty about future demand . the implication is that free markets do not generate enough final demand .
meanwhile , employment at amazon grew by 47 % annually , to 341,000 people . but with amazon employment concentrated in california , texas , and washington , the geography of such jobs is very different from that of these is being substituted . as with the geographic relocation of us manufacturing jobs , taa is not a solution for this type of ailment . after all , whereas taa targets individuals direct impacted according to foreign competition ; much of the competition that local economies now face does not come from abroad ; and many jobs are lost to those directly affected in industries not directly affected by outside competition , but by the surrounding economy . nor do import tariffs help those left unemployed by the blockbuster video ’s bankruptcy , margins books , compusa , circuit cities , payless , or virgin megastores .
in fact , president putin ’s behavior seems best explained by his dislike for democracy . following this spectacular russian failure , however , putin ’s “ managed democracy ” looks anachronistic and faces the threat of a genuine democracy in his neighbor expiring to russia . yanukovych stands to a truly oligarchic state of the sort putin has defeated at home , with yanukovych accusing yushchenko of selling ukrainian companies to russian corporations . for the first time , ukrainians have dumped their little-brother complex on russia ’s overboard . moreover , if ukraine ’s president becomes an international pariah , only he can turn to russia , as is eu president aleksandr lukashenko in belarus .
to be sure , farming development can have severe economy-wide pitfalls , which need to be navigated carefully . for example , because technology-driven productivity gains are dropping large numbers of workforce skills needed on farm farms , job creation strategies to boost other parts of the value chain , and manage migration into cities become all the more essential . fortunately , africa ’s large population of increasingly well-educated young people , who are largely uninterested in backbreaking subsistence farming , bodes well for fill the higher-value-added jobs that emerge in the agriculture sector and beyond . with africa ’s rural population already nearly underemployed , there is no time to waste in implementing such strategies . another potential food-development slump is environmental damage , including land degradation , soil nutrient mining , excessive water usage , and water pollution .
countries have overly latitude to make whatever commitments they wish , relatively unconstrained by a shared set of “ top-down ” rules imposed by the sdgs . such critics worry that it will make it harder to persuade countries to cut their emissions further as it becomes clear that their collective efforts will not be enough , and that it may even enable some countries to capitalize on irregular accounting methods . for many of the deals ’ critics , particularly those under the environmental movement , such compromises made the lima deal the excessively “ bottom-up ” accord . but that overlooks the lima deal ’s greatest accomplishment : it endangers the world ’s longstanding divisions into only two kinds of countries , which are being developed and developed . it almost surely will not have to come .
nevertheless , recent polling shows that a majority of voters mistrust incumbent governments and the ruling party . indeed , ahn cheol-soo , a successful entrepreneur turned pro-reform professor at seoul national university , and citi ’s new mayor , has now rocked south korean politics by burying broad hints that he might well become a presidential candidate . ahn has already become a lightning rod for all of the country ’s ’s anti-park and anti-president lee myun-bak forces , attracting young people at the same time . her refusal to strike out on her own is probably the main reason why she continues to lead in various opinion polls . ahn has already become a lightning rod for all of the country ’s anti-park and anti-president lee myun-bak forces , attracting young people just as much .
dhaka – we humans balk at the idea of putting the price tag on biodiversity , viewing its protection as an obvious imperative . but they would undoubtedly agree , too , that is preventing human deaths and misery , while providing food , water , and education to all of them is vitally important . can we determine the economic value to protect our natural world ? some people balk at the idea of putting the price tag on biodiversity viewing its protection as an obvious imperative . the reality is that sufficient resources are simply insufficient to do everything .
moreover , widespread infrastructure gaps persist in many emerging and developing countries , notably in power and transport . and , elsewhere in the region , small pacific island states mainly – vulnerability to the effects of climate change – are raising the stakes . indeed , this shifting landscape calls for bold action on a number of fronts . while the response will surely need to be tailor-made for each country ’s ’s particular circumstances , some of the recommendations could be helpful for most countries : · because inflation remains low across much of the region , monetary policy should remain an incentive for growth in case of downside risk materialize .
it wants to remain asia ’s sole country with a permanent seat – an attitude that places it at odds with india . if the brics countries are to jell as a constraint group in international relations , they must agree on what they believe to be attainable political and economic goals . for example , they are generally united in their frustrations with – but not in their proposed reaction to – the dollar ’s status as the world ’s reserve currency . indeed , the most important bilateral relationship each brics country has with the united states . the brics ’ concept represents , first and foremost , its members ’ desire to make the global order a more plural .
i then focused on the responsibility of the internet and the gafa ( google , apple , facebook , and amazon ) for the following sequence of events : 1 . first , a nearly infinite amount of speech is established freely by digital democracy , and we know it . the web then becomes a crowd , a free-for-all , where everyone shows up armed with his or her personal opinions , convictions and truth . by historicizing a “ will to truth the “ will of truth ” ( michel foucault ) , putting truth “ in quotation marks ” ( jacques derrida ) , separating signs from its referent ( louis althusser ) , and miring an apparent in the miasma of charts and graphs ( claude lévi-vi-strauss ) , or tying it in borromean knots ( jacques lacan ) , probably gave us to lose robust contact with simple aspects . and , third , there was “ deconstructionism ” of post-nietzscheans .
reaching an elite level in sports requires a tremendous amount of hard work , dedication , and focus . solna , sweden – elite sports and doping ( wada ) have long been deeply interrelated . yet the damascene report by the world anti-doping agency ( wada ) on russia ’s far-reaching , state-sponsored doping program , released soon before this year ’s olympic games in rio de janeiro brought it to the very heart of public consciousness . we should take that as an opportunity to redouble our efforts to end this deeply unhealthy practices and to save our elite sports . by definition , few succeed , but those that can enjoy great personal and financial rewards .
berlin – with the retaking of mosul in northern iraq , the islamic state ( isis ) might soon experience a thing of the past . but defeating isis and the demise of its self-proclaimed iraqi-syrian caliphate will not bring peace to the middle east or even an end to the syrian tragedy . rather , it is likely that it will open a new chapter in the region ’s bloodstained and chaotic history – one no less dangerous than previous chapters since the ottoman empire ’s fall at the end of world war i. instead , it is the region that has arguably open a new chapter in the region ’s bloodless and chaotic history – one less dangerous than previous chapters since the ottoman empire ’s fall at the end of world war i. to be sure , the region is utterly unable to resolve internal conflicts on its own , or to forge anything like a resilient peace framework . the continuation of this violent pattern seems almost certain , because the region remains unable or designed to resolve internal conflicts on its own , or to establish anything like a resilient peace framework .
one argument is that redundancy looks like waste in normal times , with cost-benefit calculations ruling out higher investment . this seems clearly wrong : numerous studies indicate that the built-in redundancy pays off unless one assigns unrealistically low probabilities to disruptive events . that leads to a second and more plausible explanation , which is also psychological and behavioral in character . even quick fixes tend to be more effective if key networks and systems that – especially the power grid – are resilient . why are we prone to underinvesting in our economies ’ resilience ?
right before the fed acted , the reserve bank of india raised its benchmark short-term interest rate by setting 25 basis points , to 6.25 % , to fight inflation , and the central bank of china now indicates that it might raise the interest rate further . in brazil , it seems , interest rates remain near 11 % , or more . in the west , worries about the impact of chinese growth have triggered a fearful sell-off in us markets . in the us , meanwhile , developing countries are drifting in the opposite direction . in october , the people ’s bank of china , responding to twin threats of inflation and asset bubbles , raised its one-year deposit and lending rates by 25 basis points , to just 2.5 % and 5.56 % , respectively , respectively – the initial increases since 2007 .
traditionally , contract manufacturers in china are diversified and fiercely competitive . larger firms are more adept at pooling resources in r & d research and development , which is the key to chinese aspirations to move up the value ladder . thus , they have little if any say over domestic and international regulations . at the same time , less fragmented industries lobby more better . producers in jiangsu , for example , have been pressured to adjust persistently fickle product-safety and environmental standards in export markets .
but the literature on “ exit strategies ” – on how to replace a currency peg with a more flexible exchange-rate regime – makes clear that the moment when china could navigate that transition smoothly has now passed . that may have been true of china one day ; it is no longer true today . this puts chinese policymakers in the position of an iranian tourist who asks directions to dublin , and is told , “ well , sir ” if i were you ; i would n’t start from here . no question , then , that country would have been better off with a more flexible exchange rate that eliminated the one-way bets on speculators and acted as an economic shock absorber . countries can exit a pegged exchange rate smoothly only when there is confidence in the economy , encouraging the belief that a more flexible exchange rate could appreciate as much as weaken .
a powerful version of the so-called volcker rule ( proposed to empower government-insured banks to return to their core lending mission ) might work . the legislation was not intended to ban derivatives , but only to bar implicit government guarantees , subsidized by taxpayers ( recall the $ 180 billion aig bailout ? ) , which is not the height of lending , but just to bar implicit government guarantees , subsidized by taxpayers ( recall the $ 180 billion aig bailout ? there are a number of ways for major us banks to curbing their excesses . but the american government would be remiss to the point that it is just doing so .
egypt ’s economy faces continued risks , owing to capital flight , rising inflation , unemployment , and populist policies . if finalized , the imf ’s program could trigger additional assistance packages by the world bank and other international donors . regrettably , the latest political incident involving democracy-promoting activities by american ngos has cooled bilateral relations and put it at risk of the $ 1.3 trillion in aid that egypt receives annually from the united states . if the assistance arrived , egypt could start addressing some of its funding problems , but remains to be seen as a long-term strategy to spur sustainable growth . even with the availability of external finance , egyptian leaders must look for ways to engage the private sector in reviving the country ’s economy .
cafeteria ( now more inviting and more frequented with the advent of free food ) or the halls of the plug & play startup & play startup accelerator , proximity matters . to be sure , those appealing to work at home cite not only the cost and time of commuting , but also the proliferation of meetings – too much culture , perhaps – and the steady deluge of communication that simply interrupts their work rather than enhancing it . being present physically means direct contact with other , or more sharp , creative minds . and the benefit of human contact and interactions is why salespeople still call the customers instead of applying skype , and why meetup ( which supports face-to-face encounters ’ organizers ; i am on a company ’s board ) changes lives in ways that twitter and facebook rarely do . interestingly , i have heard this point at a wam site stream “ unconference ” in phuket , thailand , where a few hundred have walked thousands of miles to meet to face the sharing of ideas and the strengthening of working relationships .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present over many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but that does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
the quality of talent , infrastructure , energy costs , and velocity is on the assumption of greater weight under such decisions . but by itself , globalization is not in retreat . if trade in global goods has indeed peaked relative to global gdp , it will be harder for poor countries in africa , latin america , and asia to develop by becoming the world ’s next workshops . if trade in global goods has indeed peaked relative to global gdp , it will be harder for poor countries in africa , latin america , and asia to develop by becoming the world ’s next workshops . the quality of talent , infrastructure , energy , and market , and speed to market , is assuming more weight in such decisions .
as xi puts it at davos in 2017 , while china is committed “ “ to the growing open global economy . ” but , in another respect , globalization with chinese characteristics will differ from globalization in the same way that we know it . in 2002 , china signed the framework convention on comprehensive economic cooperation with the association of southeast asian nations ( asean ) . but , in 2002 , china signed an framework convention on comprehensive economic cooperation with the association of southeast asian nations ( asean ) . in other respects , however , globalization with chinese characteristics will differ from globalization as we know it .
within singh ’s congress party , the pressure will mount to match economic-reform initiatives with the “ pro-poor ” ” ” programs . part of singh ’s problem is that decisions that have harmed disaffected voters ( higher diesel prices , fewer subsidized cooking-gas cylinders ) have an immediate impact , whereas the benefits from foreign investment – for example , take years to become apparent . all policymakers in democracies think in short-term terms ; few have time-honored horizons that extend well beyond the next election . within singh ’s congress party , the pressure will mount to match economic-reform initiatives with the “ pro-poor ” programs . part of singh ’s problem is that decisions that have harmed voters ( higher diesel prices , fewer subsidized cooking-gas cylinders ) have an immediate impact , whereas what is really good for foreign investment – take years to become apparent .
the alternative is the one being urged by sarkozy and banque de france : purchases by european banks of their countries ’ government bonds . banks are immediate interest to adjust to new capital requirements and to restore their balance sheets to financial health , implying that they will use the ecb ’s money in ways that allow them to meet that target most effectively . so , for example , if they use the cash to continue financing the private sector , they will ensure that loans go to creditworthy customers . this means that , like the italian and spanish banks ’ loans over the past few months , most of the new cash will be loaned locally to safe households and to large established firms . that will enable bank markets to continue functioning , but it is unlikely to re-package the type of stimulus that european economies now require .
but symbolic measures , while important , are not sufficient to bring about genuine progress . turkey has an important role to play in its own region and the world , one that is undermined by its continuing deniability to respond to the armenian genocide . turkey ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s important government must show of its commitment to ensuring that its laws and institutions effectively protect the human rights of all its citizens . its meager approach to the genocide is inconsistent with its drive to cultivate its reputation as an honest , reliable partner . doing so would improve its standing both in europe and beyond .
yet , with the possible exception of costa rica ’s foreign-investment boost , cinde , modeled after ida-ireland , none of latin america ’s fdi promotion agencies have succeeded in embracing best practices . all promote both foreign and domestic investment , despite the failure of such institutional arrangements in the past . for that to happen , fdi has to be promoted separately from domestic investment and exports . they want to speak to private-sector experts who understand their companies ’ technical and financial needs or sectors . to do that , foreign investors are reluctant to deal with diplomats or civil servants .
with the paris climate agreement a year old , transformational global fossil-fuel markets are just a matter of time . big mining companies can prepare for this shift by moving from fossil fuels to other forms of materials like iron ore , copenhagen , bauxite , cobalt , scarce earth elements , and lithium , along with the mineral fertilizers that will be needed in vast numbers to meet sdgs ’ targets for global hunger eradication . third , the world needs a better means of assessing mining ’s ecological risks . companies with a huge fossil-fuel portfolio like coal will soon face severe uncertainty related to stranded assets , and investors may change risk assessments accordingly . phasing out coal during times of latent overproduction may even do some good .
but the observable diffracting pattern -- the intensities and individual reflections of reflections -- represented just half of the data needed to deduce the structure of diffracting object object . in the mathematical terms , it gives amplitude , incomprehensively , but not phases – that is , the stages in an oscillatory motion -- without which atomic positions could not be fixed . in the mathematical terms , it gave amplitude , but not phases – that is , the stages in an oscillatory motion -- without which atomic positions could be fixed . the following year , he was awarded excellent hemoglobin crystals , and soon produced the best x-rays patterns to date . it also obtained the first x-ray patterns of a partly oriented sample of dna .
it began with the publication by the praesidium of the un convention on the future of europe ’s first sixteen articles of " treaty to establish a constitution for europe . " the text mostly replicates the structure of convention chairman valery giscard d'estaing ’s “ skeleton ” constitution , presented last november with the conclusions reached by the working groups of convention . the key word that we are gaining ground in the eu is mostly being . the endgame to determine a final shape of the european union is underway . such a fidelity had not been holding for economics .
likewise , whereas every company needs data for investment and operating decision-making , official statistics in emerging markets are not always robust , and are often skewed in favor of policy agendas . in pakistan , for example , a 2008 census scheduled for 2008 has been postponed for nine years , and beset by problems when it was finally carried out . in africa , where the infrastructure-investment gap totals $ 68-108 billion a year , it is firms that pay more to do business . in nigeria , just over three-quarters of firms are experiencing electric blackouts , costing them more than 15 % of annual sales , on average , on average . gender-based growth and urbanization are outstripping the supply .
the bbc media team suffered a similar fate in 2016 . nor have closures spared leading regional outlets like siberian broadcastertv-2 or kaliningrad , and of kaliningrad , the university of mostly independent , novye kolesa . each of these outlets has been distinguished in its coverage of sensitive stories – from the conflict in ukraine to high-level corruption . russia today has fewer press freedom and more journalists , media staff , and bloggers behind bars than at any point since the soviet union ’s collapse in 1991 . in crimea and chechnya , even the most basic media protections are nonexistent .
these days , countries , citizens , and an increasing number of businesses worldwide are finally taking action . this month , the thousands assembled for the un ’s climate change conference in bonn , germany , to ratchet up global ambition in the fight against climate change . following the successful paris climate agreement two years ago , expectations for continued progress , and continued cooperation , are high . one such more promising recent step is the eu ’s carbon pricing leadership coalition ( cplc ) , which brings together 30 governments and more than 180 companies and strategic partners to put the value of carbon dioxide emissions above . the idea is simple : if we are to meet the paris accord ’s target of limiting the increase in global average temperature to well below 2 ° celsius above the preindustrial level – ideally , to about 1.5 ºc above preindustrial levels – we need to cut emissions dramatically .
the scale of such an operation would be enormous , exposing the ecb to enormous credit risks . once greece goes , runs on bank deposits are likely to follow in spain and italy . there is nothing to stop spanish and italian depositors from wiring their euros from their local banks into one in switzerland , norway , or new york . at that point , all still standing between the eurozone and the financial chaos will be the ecb , which could purchase government bonds and bankrolling the bank . but it could do essentially step in – if northern europe allowed .
political leaders in thailand and malaysia , as well as in other countries in the region , frequently tout a model pioneered by singapore ’s founder and longtime leader lee kuan yew , who died earlier this month . yes , lee ’s system enabled him to remain in power for 31 years , and used civilian , rather than criminal , courts to harry his opponents . but , more important , lee also relied on elements of democratic contestation to ensure that meritocracy has victorious over patronage . here , it seems clear that unmo ’s political interests were allowed to dictate that the country ’s crucial opposition leader should be sought on allegations that no genuine democracy that embraces the rule of law would even consider leveling the rule of law even a truly independent court could be accepted . yet the path on which both countries have embarked was not lee in .
are all his supporters “ crazies , ” as senator john mccain , perhaps unwisely , have called them ? trump , in the slaveholding comedian hillary clinton , is “ america ’s id , ” or at least the unwisely of a vast number of mostly white , mostly small-town americans . trump ’s critics argue that he plays to the basest instincts of disaffected voters who hate foreigners ( particularly mexicans ) , mistrust bankers ( or someone with a college degree , on the grounds of that matter ) , and still can not get over the election of a president whose father was black . now , all of this may , perhaps more . but , as a result , trump is part of a wider phenomenon throughout the democratic world .
the former boom countries – greece , ireland , italy , and spain – remain mired in recession , and their gdps will continue to shrink . the spanish economy contracted by 3.6 % in 2009 and is expected to shrink by 0.4 % this year . for finland , britain , and italy , below-average growth rates are expected . spain ’s unemployment rate , one of europe ’s big economies , has sky-rocked to 20 % , and still shows no sign of improving . in europe , too , the picture is mixed .
malmö – “ everyone knows ” that you should drink eight near-water glasses . after all , that is the advice of a multitude of health writers , not to mention authorities like britain ’s national health service . sure , drinking that much would not feel comfortable , but powerade offers this sage counsel : “ you might be able to train your gut to tolerate a more fluid way if you build your fluid intake gradually . ” indeed , often we drink without being thirsty , but that is precisely how that should be : as sipping maker tuorade reminds us , “ your brain ” may know a lot , but do n’t know when your body ’s body is thirsty . healthy , living now means performing water bottled bottles , sipping at every time they attempt to drink our entire daily quota to ensure that we stay hydrated and healthy .
beyond these limits , they also face huge uncertainties . can the united states still afford a suburban lifestyle , with sprawling homes in far-flung communities requiring long-distance commutes ? can they be allowed to emit carbon dioxide , as happened in the past ? what sort of power plants will be acceptable in the future ? firms are reluctant to invest at a time when consumer demand is plummeting , and they face unprecedented risk penalties for their borrowing costs .
at present , the alphabet soup of nonprofit and multilateral agencies are lumles elements of the challenge . weak mandates , insufficient financing , disorganized structures , and the absence of a system of global governance have weakened intergovernmental agencies ’ capacity to operate with authority in the name of the most vulnerable . as i argue in germany this week , the g20 leaders meeting in hamburg on july 7-8 have an opportunity to change the migrant governance system with proactive protections policies that would enhance people ’s trust in international leadership . these include independent groups such as the international women ’s refugees ( the behest ) and médecins sans frontières ( msf ) . while past summits have produced little more than talk , the prospect of action is better this time , given that the talks will be held in europe , where the impact of the migration crisis has been felt profoundly .
there is every reason to believe that this pace of productivity growth will continue for decades to come . by the late 1950s , there were roughly 2000 computers in the world , and their processed power averaged 10,000 machine instructions per second . more than a generation ago , intel ’s co ₂ founder gordon moore noted that improvements in semiconductor fabrication allow for a doubling of the density of transistors on a chip every eighteen months . the scale of the investment required to make what is known as “ moore ’s law ” hold has grown exponentially , coupled with the density of transistors and circuits ; but “ moore ’s law ” remains in force , and engineers see no immediate barriers resulting in the improvement process anytime soon . there are now more than 300 million computers in the world , with processing power averaging several hundred million instructions per second -- a four _ fold increase in raw , automated computational power , a average annual rate of 56 % !
by targeting schools as hubs for health-care education and shaping students into health ambassadors for their families and friends , we can reach an even greater number of people in xinjiang our nomadic communities . xinjiang means “ new frontier , ” ” and right now , we are on the fringes of a new frontier in delivering sustainable health-care solutions to communities where limited resources and infrastructure constrain health-care access . such multidimensional , scalable interventions help to bridge gaps in developing regions . but neither corporations nor governments can do that alone . indeed , they need working together to reach the best possible outcomes .
fortunately , he still has time , with many previous us presidents having set a precedent for bold diplomacy during their final months in the white house . at the end of 1988 , ronald reagan recognized the palestine liberation organization and authorized the state department to initiate a substantive dialogue with plo leaders . and , starting with the annapolis conference at the end of 2007 , george w. bush mediated an array of negotiations among abbas and israeli prime minister ehud olmert . now , it is obama ’s turn to him and should push for a un security council resolution that establishes new parameters for a future peace accord and replaces un security council resolution 242 , which dates back to the 1967 six day war between israel and egypt , jordan , and syria . in late 2000 , bill clinton published his parameters for a future peace framework .
locoughner ’s firing of 19 people ’s dollars in 2011 , including congresswoman gabrielle giffords , attracted global attention , as did a kind of court-mandated appreciation of his mental competency . indeed , on the opposite side of the world , the australian paper mentioned giffords 160 times in the six months after the shootings passed , in response to just one mention in the previous 12 months . likewise , the cho state of mental illness was widely discussed . while mass shootings are extraordinarily rare even in the us , media ’s coverage continually reinforces negative perceptions , at home and abroad . in this manner , the us may well be exporting an mental-illness stigma for the rest of the world .
more important , successful reforms in ukraine make positive developments in russia all the more likely . ukraine is a large country , with its ample human capital , natural resources , and growth potential across a range of sectors . it is a key front in a global confrontation between democracy and autocracy . for europe , it represents a singular opportunity to promote the rule of law , transparency , free trade , and good governance beyond its borders . still , ukraine ’s economy has shrunk by more than two-thirds ( in dollar terms ) since 2006 , makes it europe ’s poorest country .
but this strategy carries serious risks that ultimately make it unworkable . rather , it should resemble the bretton woods system , under which countries could exit and re-enter after bolstering competitiveness through austerity and reform . realigning the relative prices would require internal devaluation , which could fuel social and political instability in weaker countries . the civil unrest and the rise of neo-nazi parties in europe ’s southern members exemplify these dangers , threatening the very purpose of european integration . at one extreme stands the notion that the euro can not function like the us dollar , given that the eurozone is not a confederalized state .
the problem comes when expansionary monetary policy through the standard open-market operations and central-bank guarantees of orderly markets prove inadequate . should they explicitly guarantee large financial institutions ’ liabilities and/or asset classes ? economists disagree about when , on what circumstances , and in what order governments should move beyond these first two checklist items . should governments try to boost monetary velocity by selling bonds , thereby boosting short-term interest rates ? should they employ unemployed workers either directly , or indirectly , by bringing forward expenditures or expanding the scale of government programs ?
uk ministers responsible for the talks – a group better known for their dogmatism and personal ambition than their competence – has so far been able to secure agreement in a single key area : following the march 2019 deadline , a two-year transition period will start . it also features on may ’s promise to leave the eu ’s single market and customs union . but not even this agreement is fixed in kind , because it depends on whether the negotiators can first agree on what to do about a border between the west bank and northern ireland once the uk leaves the customs union . you can be in a customs union with no border or outside a customs union with your border . there can be no similar example anywhere in the world where this is not true .
what is needed is a broader definition that the ecb pursues a symmetrical inflation target of 2 % , within a 1.5-2.5 % band over longer time horizons . the eurozone is also highly fragmented financially , lacking a common capital market , a unifying secure asset , or tools of macroeconomic stabilization . to be sure , the ecb needs a more realistic and flexible mandate . given europe ’s fragmented nature , that mandate probably should remain high on price stability . but it should also recognize that the current definition of price stability – not less but close to , 2 % inflation over the medium term – is too narrow .
israel and palestine should jointly bid for , and have been awarded , the 2018 arab football world cup . the israel-palestine conflict has been on a lasting track for far too long . so many hopes have been dashed in the bitter failures of so many of the talks . when it comes to wanting peace in the middle east – practically a new year ago – ’s tradition ­ – one need to be vigilant . but the us has options for dealing with the middle east – one that , while perhaps not delivering peace may produce one of peace ’s purposes : goodwill .
notwithstanding the bravery of the many iraqis who join either army or the police , no one should be surprised when some have the motives to be less than pure ones . so the real question is how to get to the point where iraq possesses police and the army , which can be trusted to maintain the rule of law in much the same way as order . much of the ground must be covered in other areas , which is said by force . much of the ground must be covered in the way anywhere close to the state . indeed , old scores are settled in northern iraq and de facto ethnic segregation is pursued in regions like irbil , that have traditionally been diverse .
to be sure , it would be inaccurate to oppose a prosperous poland to a collapsing spain . given europe ’s general crisis , even poland ’s economy is no longer booming . the unemployment rate hovers around 10 % ( still below half of the spanish rate ) , and annual gdp growth is hovering around 1 % ( spain ’s growth rate is negative ) . yet moods in both countries , like their perceptions of europe and its role within it , contrast starkly with one another . the differences between madrid and warsaw suggest that the distinction between old and new europe remains valid , though not in how rumsfeld himself has meant .
berlin – the united kingdom ’s voters ’ decision to “ brexit ” the european union is not an example of british black humor that i love . given the uk ’s economic , political , and military significance , brexit would leave the eu a gaping hole . it is not “ monty python ’s flying circus , ” “ yes , chief minister , ” or “ the fawlty towers ” ; it was the mere boris , michelle and nigel farage , and their catastrophic political reality show . but it wo n’t doom europe to one . currently , the uk can no longer be said .
but , for both sides , as for external powers , the events of 1948 and what has followed – the occupation since 1967 of the remaining lands of historic palestinian territories – represents a tragic setback . israel is most at an fault for this failure because of its continued military occupation and illegal settlements . as israel ’s state celebrates its 60th birthday , palestinians remember the nakbeh or “ catastrophe ” – their story of dispossession , occupation , and statelessness . but the international community , the palestinians , and arabs all bear responsibility as well , albeit at different levels . despite providing lip service to peace , the israeli army ’s refusal to vacate occupied territories continues in direct defiance of what the united nations security council ’s preamble resolution 242 termed a “ inadmissible grab for land by force . ”
a government ’s ability to offer such insurance on a scale sufficient to make it costless is one reason to favor a public scheme over private insurers . tantalizingly , they say that doing this would produce “ a market-based view of future output and the likelihood of severe shocks , ” though they do not clarify how this market would be structured at all . moreover , recession insurance could at odds with fiscal policy – indeed , impose zero costs on the government – for as long as it stimulates confidence , just as the risk of being insured against is avoided . blanchard and his colleagues point out that banks might condition loans to firms on their purchase of recession insurance – which may help credit markets function better – address a serious problem underlying the current crisis . reducing uncertainty might augment , or even superior to , fiscal stimulus programs , for it would address the root cause of unwillingness to spend .
so far , enforcement has failed , owing to flaws in the eurozone ’s fundamentals . first , fiscal and external-account balances are meant to be enforced in check to ensure financial stability and to sustain the common currency . second , eliminating imbalances is the responsibility of national governments as part of the rescue regime arranged by supranational institutions – the european commission and the ecb , in cooperation with the european council – that in turn represent national governments . the greek saga shows that this system can not control destabilizing imbalances quickly enough to ward off major crises . imbalances are not simply the result of irresponsible policies .
in fact , the chinese economy has long been obscured , yet it has now been exposed as stricter regulation of activities like the speculative trading of renminbi masquerading as trade payments . notably , china ’s “ two systems ” have allowed exports to bonded warehouses in hong kong to be used to renminbi trade statistics . in addition , chinese exports sometimes would have increased in the face of a slump in the volume of cargo tongue-shipped from harbors . as a result , its trade surplus continued to flounder , to $ 20.4 trillion , fueling growing concern about a chinese slowdown . china ’s ’s downturn looks abrupt ; after all , its exports skyrocketed at double-digit rates each month until may .
these are not mutually exclusive goals , especially if business leaders adhere to newly articulated principles of sustainable investment and long-term engagement . after all , m & a is only the first step on a long road . just as chinese firms invest overseas – as mine it is nowadays in latin america – they hold accountable not only to invest wisely and sustainably for their companies ’ reasons , so they are integrated into their strategies with china ’s national investment priorities . for most equity investors , any project ’s value depends on large scale on effective post-investment management . clear rights and obligations must therefore work carefully out early stages of investment , something that was all but absent before .
to make a proactive contribution to peace means that japan will bear its own share of responsibility for assuring the security that supports global prosperity and stability . working alongside those of the countries with which the us share common values and interests will safeguard and cultivate international public goods ranging from space and cyberspace to skies and sea . and our embrace of us global responsibilities extends to japan ’s ’s ’s self-defense forces . members of the self-defense forces have displayed exemplary cooperation with america and the australian armed forces in the wake of the great east japan earthquake in 2011 and earned deep appreciation and respect everywhere it has deployed – including in haiti , indonesia , and , most recently , the philippines . as the world watches during obama ’s visit , japan is back and thriving .
for all that israel downwards , the arab peace initiative of 2002 still offers a critically important new deal : the full normalization of relations by the entire arab world , in exchange for a comprehensive peace settlement . israel , just as its founding father david ben-gurion warned , may be the jewish state , may prove to be a democratic state , and may prove a state occupying the entire historic israel ; but it can not be all three . so how long can this arab league position be sustained with peace talks go nowhere ? how can israel ’s preferred palestinian leaders , abbas and pa prime minister salam fayyad , be left out of any credible capacity to negotiate if talks can not begin , as israel insists , retreat on its minimal state of a settlement freeze in occupied territories ? another big question for israel is whether it can accept the consequences should the two-state solution disappears entirely on the agenda .
but , even with favorable world markets , the us has not succeeded in resolving the great poverty problem in which millions of russians still live . nor was it the kind of crisis that trump created for a corruption that affects the officialdom of all levels or that caused russia to lose its democratic dynamic . i am convinced that russia ’s troubles all come down to politics . what we need is a more democratic , competitive environment ; an initiative at every level , an active civil society , and a genuine public system of public control . we russians have been traveling on oil and gas , forgetting that those resources will not last forever .
fiscal responsibility in the eurozone as a whole would be fatally undermined . yet forcing a defaulting greece from the eurozone – against its will – is not an option , either : it would plunge the country into economic , social , and political instability – and its doubtless would be serious repercussions beyond the country ’s borders . the first – and more desirable – is for the ecb to assess realistically greece ’s solvency deficiency and so stop providing ela funds to its banking system . but allowing greece to default , and thus to remain in the eurozone , is not an option : it would signal that other eurozone countries could monetize the huge debts , financed by the ecb , without having any intention of repaying . in my judgment , there are only two viable options left .
this brings us to the second key lever for expanding affordable housing : the more cohesive , efficient construction industry . by standardizing design elements like the cap ’s ceiling heights , fixtures , and flooring , construction firms can cut costs and boost productivity as workers gain experience with repetitive tasks . for example , china imposes a idle-land tax on formerly public land if its owner can not initiate a development process within a year . additional savings are possible via industrial approaches , such as the use of components – say , walls and flooring slabs – that have built up offsite . as it stands , the urban-rural construction industry is deeply fragmented , impeding its ability to capture economies of scale ; and builders often rely largely on the same methods that were used 50 years ago .
if unchecked , that figure is expected to rise to 416,000 by 2035 , overtaking maternal deaths . that makes some sense : from the 266,000 women who die from cervical cancer each year – an average of one every two minutes – live in developing countries . encouragingly , developing-country governments have increasingly been demanding the hpv vaccine . for many of these countries , the hpv vaccine is not just an effective response , one that has preventable 1,500 deaths per 100,000 were vaccinated ; it is often the only solution , because the poorest countries lack the capacity to offer screening or treatment for cervical cancer . that is one reason why cancer experts , government officials , private-sector leaders , and civil-society representatives met for the second few weeks ago in addis ababa , for the tenth cancer conference in africa .
washington , dc – the ongoing corruption investigation in brazil has exposed a tangled network of illicit relationships among private firms , government bureaucrats , and elected politicians . several high-level politicians and corporate owners and executives have been convicted and imprisoned . after all , even former president luiz inácio lula da silva is now under criminal impeachment . brazil , meanwhile , has taken its toll on the brazilian economy . the country ’s corruption scandals have already reached all-time highs .
most countries rely far too much on command and control , and on providing far too little incentive for their patients and providers to make efficient choices . nevertheless , it remains to be seen whether health-care pressures will ultimately precipitate the current trend toward free ( and freer ) market-based capitalism to reverse , with an extremely large segment of the economy reverting to a more socialist system . some societies may decide that they are better off as red rather than dead . i am not arguing against health-care capitalism , but warnings that support will become fragile , far more so than anything seen as globalization today . that raises prolonged well being all around , but heightens short-term inequalities and frictions .
cambridge – the nineteenth-century physicist heinrich hertz once described his feeling that james clerk maxwell ’s equations that depicts the fundamentals of our power and magnetism , “ have an independent existence and intelligence ” “ in their own making , ” that they are wiser … even than their discoverers , that we get more out than was originally based in them . not long after , albert einstein called niels bohr ’s atomic model “ the highest form of musicality in the sphere of thought . ” more recently , the late nobel laureate richard feynman thomas feynman describes his discovery of new book laws of physics , declared , “ one can recognize the truth of his beauty and simplicity . ” similar sentiment is now all but universal among the modern physicists . wishful thinking might never have produced working iphones , pictures of pluto , or of atomic bombs .
in a 1991 paper , allan drazen drazen and alberto alesina suggested that economic stabilization may be delayed because two contending groups are trapped in a war of attrition ; all understand that adjustment is required but to expect that the other group will mainly bear the brunt of costs . let ’s start with , say , the last one . by delaying , they provide information to the other group about their willingness to withstand pain . why , with explicitly formulated alternatives on the table , did the government opt the predictably catastrophic course of action , at so high human cost ? there are three possibilities : ignorance , intention , and strategic interaction .
here is where the fed comes in . rather than view the fed ’s 30 % appreciation that follows the ecb ’s current monetary policy , german exporters would shout to measures to prevent america ’s “ competitive devaluation , ” finally bring about moderate north inflation , rather than the current grinding depression in the south . a democratic , prosperous , and stable europe implies a much better and more secure american world . a world in which the us has a proven record of honoring the trust it needs to play the role of a global economic hegemon is a far better world for the us than one in which it is not trusted . by shifting its monetary-policy regime to the target of 4 % annual inflation – or to 6 % annual nominal gdp growth – the us would set in motion a quick rebalancing across the eurozone .
and a group of 47 republican senators have written a letter to iran ’s leaders announcing that the next us congress might not honor any nuclear deal they reach with obama . but ensuring that america can continue to lead in the twenty-first century will require a different type of engagement . another source of doubt on america ’s enduring clout lies in the fact that us multilateral engagement is still needed , and that has always been more difficult than bilateral engagement . indeed , it requires not only clearer and bolder rules , but also a demonstrated willingness to bear the costs of these rules , whether by creating secure zones to uphold “ responsibility to protect ” civilians or take concrete steps toward reducing – and ultimately eliminating – nuclear arsenals . bilateral engagement will prove to be one of obama ’s most significant foreign-policy legacies .
caracas – venezuelan president nicolás maduro and his administration have ruffled its country . while they claim to be redeemers of the poor and trumpet their readiness to fight for their “ selfless ” bolivarian cause , they refuse international assistance , forcing venezuelans either to emigrate or suffer ( and in many cases die ) from severe shortages of food , medicines , and medical supplies . venezuela ’s destruction urgently needs to be stopped if its viability as the state and society is to be re-established . that requires a new government of unquestionable legitimacy , chosen through free and fair presidential elections before this year ’s end , as dictated by the constitution . to be sure , maduro and his associates are not simply going down , because they will probably mean long prison terms in the united states for narcotics trafficking or in the hague for crimes against humanity .
indeed , over the last 30 years or so , massive public investment and economic liberalization have spurred rapid urbanization in the coastal provinces . but the effectiveness of such investments will depend on the sequence and rate of implementation , and on how skillfully they are tailored to every locality ’s relevant resources , needs , and aspirations . so far , china has largely adopted a “ field of dreams ” approach to urbanization : “ build it and come . ” four of the interrelated issues that need to be addressed are being tackled . and now , china ’s leaders are increasingly adopting the belief that a grand strategy , making critical investment in physical and human capital .
will kim respond to that isolation recklessly by continuing to antagonize the south or , pragmatically , by becoming more flexible ? that is not an easy question to answer ; it is a question that can not be asked . it should be obvious to kim now that his star of provocations is not benefiting his country . his bellicose behavior in 2013 , for example , worsened his ties with china , south korea , and the united states both ; and in the recent crisis , all have made it a halt to mocking loudspeaker broadcasts . if china really is distancing itself from north korea , kim jong-un ’s regime will now be almost entirely isolated internationally .
the only thing that has changed since then is that of islamic fundamentalism and the religious radicalization of some young people in the turkish world . only french prime minister manuel valls – the son of spanish migrants – highlighted the issue , referring to the “ social-democratic and ethnic apartheid ” ” ” who has developed in his country . the need to address such a outcome in france and across europe has become more important than ever , as more rioting and criminality by young , underprivileged migrants match the rise of far-right political parties . europeans can not afford even ethnic confrontation ; on the contrary , with its aging , shrinking populations , europeans badly need more migrants . indeed , statistics are perplexing and sometimes conflicted ; but the european union ’s now-foreign-born population of some 33 million may have grown to more than 100 million immigrants by mid-century .
countries where english is not a lingua franca are particularly disadvantaged in science , not because it lacks academic excellence , but because english-language journals call the shots . the non-english academic journals simply do not command the same attention in the sciences . as a result , the scale of the research subjects that many countries can commit is limited and must struggle to retain scientific talent . as english-language empirical-research journals consolidate their hold on the channels that determine whether or not a academic will have successful careers , developing countries will have to invest massively in their own data-infrastructure to place domestic researchers on a more competitive edge . this is particularly true in the middle east , where governments are struggling to diversify their economies to make them more resilient .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present over many years to come . at this week ’s international monetary fund-world bank annual meeting , malpass needs to address these concerns head-on . he should be judged not by his own past , or by his ties to the trump administration , as well as by his host .
but what matters is the real interest rate , that is , the difference between the market rate and the rate of inflation . there are , in essence , two competing explanations , for a variety of competing explanations . the first , the secular stagnation hypothesis has been conceived by larry summers . its keynesian premise is that an equilibrium interest rate – where demand would equilibrium supply today is no less than the actual rate of interest . that seems paradoxical , as interest rates are close to zero in most advanced economies .
by contrast , cameroon , which egypt had defeated in the final , featured just a single player from a domestic club , with 20 from european clubs , as well as 20 from europe ’s clubs . few egyptian players would have been familiar to europeans watching this game , but egypt had played a much better and well-deserved victory . but the most important lesson revealed by the africa cup is that successful nations are those that combine the opportunities of globalization with strong domestic fundamentals . for the world cup ’s winner was not cameroon or cote d’ivoire , or any of the other african teams loaded with the star players from the european leagues , but egypt , which fielded just four players ( out of 23 ) that play in europe . for their part , african players grumbled that their absence from europe reduced its commercial opportunities during a crucial period of the league play .
berlin – the world ’s challenge in addressing north korea ’s ’s ’s saber rattling is made no easier by confronting an impoverished , effectively defeated country . though metternich sought to discourage any potential french resurgence , france ’s prewar frontiers . by contrast , as henry kissinger famously argued , the victors in world war i could neither be deterred by defeat germany , nor provide it with the incentives to acquiesce france ’s treaty of versailles . the genius of the habsburg empire ’s crown prince klemens von metternich in framing the new international order after the napoleonic wars was that it was not pushing france to a corner . on the contrary , in such circumstances , calm foresight is all the more necessary .
america had its brief , sharp recession in 1980 , followed by a long and severe one in 1981/1982 . yet , in fact , the economy was growing in the interim – just barely enough to view them as a distinct recessions . and , having been separated by a transition from us president jimmy carter to president ronald reagan , it was politically consequential for two recessions to determine . many economists believe that it was one important episode , and that is probably the appropriate way to think in a wider historical context . at times , dating a recession is the need to call for judgment .
in fact , large majorities in us sanctions impose by major countries against small countries . in the 1990s , for example , us sanctions regimes were introduced at an average rate of roughly $ seven per year . currently , america has almost 8,000 sanctions globally , with iran by far its largest sovereign target . of just 67 in that decade , two-thirds were united states unilateral sanctions . during bill clinton ’s presidency , it is estimated that roughly 40 % of the world ’s population , or 2.3 billion , became subject to some form of american sanctions .
in the same tweet justifying his phone call with tsai , he has repeated the fake charge that china is devaluing its currency to obtain an export advantages vis-à-vis america . his knowledge of international economics is either non-existent or a decade out . in reality , china is now overturning foreign-exchange reserves and desperate to prop up the renminbi ’s value in the face of capital flight . worse , by announcing that america will withdraw from the trans-pacific partnership ( tpp ) – which was designed at least partly to shape global trade and investment flows under western rules – rather than china ’s mercantilist vision – trump is also abandoning an american policy that could check china ’s surging influence in asia . trump is apparently being antagonizing china for no good reason .
india is preoccupied with the call for economic development , and tied down its problematic relationship with pakistan . likewise , russia is a narrowly-based , government-led economy , focused largely on retaining power at home and reestablishing russian influence in the middle east and europe . while china is an often cited candidate , its leadership has mostly focused on consolidating the domestic order by maintaining artificially high economic-growth rates to stave off popular riots . by contrast , china ’s interest in its regional and global institutions appears to be designed mostly to bolster its economy and geopolitical clout , rather than to help set the rules and create broadly beneficial arrangements . what we can see is that there is no alternative great power willing and able to step in and assume what had been america ’s role .
beijing – china ’s annual gdp growth slowed to 7.6 % in the second quarter of 2012 , down from 8.1 % in the first quarter , and the lowest growth rates since the second quarter of 2009 . as a result , the inflation rate has plunged in june to 2.2 % , a 29-month low , and house prices – for which the national bureau of statistics unfortunately has stopped issuing its official data – seem to be stabilizing , and may even have fallen , albeit modestly . plummeting growth data may have dispelled fears of a hard landing for china ; but they nonetheless have spurred many to argue that china needs to stimulate its economy further in order to ensure 8 % annual growth . a slowing economy in china ’s gdp growth rate is , to some extent , a reflection of a government ’s success ’s efforts to rein in the real-estate bubble , as well as of other official policies aimed at rebalancing the economy . since early 2010 , to include the economy ’s inflationary and property bubbles , the chinese government has tightened monetary policy .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present over many years to come . from a moral standpoint , a powerful case exists for respecting a woman ’s ’s personal freedom and bodily autonomy , rather than compelling her to place her own health or wellbeing at risk by pursuing frivolous or unsafe pregnancy to term . yet , given how rife with misinformation and muddies by misplaced arguments , policy debates often go nowhere , so long as they frame abortion first and acting foremost as a health matter .
every day , more people arrive in nairobi , enticed by the promise of employment , resources , and a better life , only to realize that it is not equipped to survive there , and would grow its children into a slum . at least half of those living in urban slums are below the age of 20 . without access to education , this generation – which will soon become the most – seems to have little hope of ever escaping its straitened conditions . yet , for how long will a majority serve a minority ? the world ’s enduring perceptions of africa as a village are exacerbated by slum dwellers ’ plight , keeping them off the global development agenda .
the problem is that the principle can not be used constantly . the world in which we live is a tiny garden of well-studied territory surrounded by a dim and murky one of catastrophes . the disasters lurking in distances are legion : vulnerabilities and comets ; world-wide pandemics and plagues ; nuclear and non-nuclear wars ; droughts , famines , and floods ; volcanic eruptions , earthquakes , and tsunamis ; the human over-population and non-human extinction ; the soaring temperatures and sea-levels ; falling temperatures and spreading ice ages ; clean air and water depletion ; the disappearance of clean air and water ; the disappearance of forests , farms , and fishmeal . all of these disasters – and many more still to be imagined – are possible , and many are unacceptable . the precautionary principle prescribes action , regardless of the cost , to prevent all .
milan – for much of the post-world war ii era , us economic policies have focused on unemployment . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the sharp job losses from the great depression were reversed only when the end of world war ii , and the massive debt accumulated to finance it , the kick-started economic-growth patterns had a lasting impact on at least two generations . but employment is just one facet of welfare , and , in today ’s ’s world , it is not enough . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present over many years to come . the cold war ushered in two rival military alliances against each other . by contrast , the sino-american rivalry comprises two economies that are closely integrated both with one another and with the rest of the world .
from 1968 to 1973 , british labor and conservative governments organized the removal of all living on the 55 islands that now constitutes the british indian ocean area ( biot ) , and split off from mauritius in the age of its independence . the chagossians were shipped off to the seychelles and mauritius , where they sat and left to fend for themselves . this was carried out at the behest of the united states , which at that time embroiled in the vietnam war and demanded , for understandable security , the use of diego garcia ’s island-cia as its air and naval base . the way in which the residents of that archipelago were systematically dispossessed and lashed out of their homeland in the name of the west ’s strategic interests is a human tragedy over which the west can and should make restitution . the british foreign office , for its part , claimed that the chagos islands did not have settled the population .
islamabad – last year , pakistan witnessed a second successful democratic transition in its 71-year history , with prime minister recep tayyip erdoğan assuming office after his own party won a general election on an anti-corruption slogan . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . hopes are high for a new administration that appears willing to operate with both technocrats and opposition parties to tackle pakistan ’s many pressing challenges . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but that does not augur all-out war . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
because of the dodd-frank act of 2010 , the fed can issue emergency prompt financing only to at least five eligible institutions – something of a problem when just your four largest banks are having trouble – and it must certify that the counterparty is financially viable , before any financing can arise . but the task of establishing whether a troubled entity is viable is the best left for itself after the financial order that has been renewed . in any case , the countercyclical pursuit of price stability and/or full employment during cyclical downturns now seems destined for an extended involuntary holiday . as the term emphasizes , “ emergency ” liquidity must be made accessible to systemically important financial institutions immediately – even as they become insolvent and resolution . unless governments come to saving intelligently designed countercyclical fiscal and supply-side policies , major advanced economies are likely to embark on a protracted multifaceted , un-adulterated cyclical downturns .
sovereign spreads are already pricing risk of a domino effect , from greece to spain , portugal , and other euro-zone members . a default by greece , after all , could have the same global systemic effects that lehman brothers ’ collapse did in 2008 . fiscal adjustment and financial-rescue structural reform are both more fragile and liable to fail without a war chest of liquidity to preempt a run on government debt , as the appropriate policies are implemented gradually and gradually gain credibility . simultaneously , unless greece alters its policies fully to restore fiscal sustainability and competitiveness , a partial bailout by the eu and the ecb will still be unlikely to prevent contagion risk to the rest of the euro zone and the consequent threat to the monetary union ’s survival . the eu and the ecb worry about the moral hazard of any one “ bailout . ”
sharing a mountainous – and porous – border with afghanistan , this region includes a number of taliban sympathizers among their fellow pashtuns . moreover , the terrorist attacks of september 11 , 2001 , and the ensuing pressure from washington have led to a u-turn for pakistan away from pro-jihadi policies . these religious parties , an overture of which is now led by provincial governments in the northern west frontier province , were politically marginalized until given the central role of pakistan ’s military dictator in the 1980 ’s , general zia ul haq , who led pakistan ’s covert military intervention in the war against the soviet occupation of afghanistan . human-rights groups have long urged the necessity of extending the writ of pakistan ’s constitution to the tribal areas in which religion-based parties have broad support . the sharing of a mountainous – and porous – border with afghanistan , this region includes many taliban sympathizers among their fellow pashtuns .
with america ’s loss of interest in neo-liberal policies , it has receded . throughout its history , america has always assiduously sought to insulate its markets from foreign competition . mainstream politicians may yet “ nod in reverently ” when the global free market is invoked , but in practice the world falls into an elder , more durable model . so , then , history has had more triumphed over ideology . it is tacitly accepted that , as in the past , the world will contain a diverse set of economic systems and regimes .
the first few years of his rule were dominated by his struggle to secure control over the country ’s state-owned oil company , pdvsa . upon reasserting political control in 2003 , chávez fired 40 % of pdvsa ’s workers . chávez turned pdvsa into personal fiefdom , and used it as cash cow ; many of his social programs financed directly from the company ’s budget . his hostility to foreign players in industry ( he was expropriated by several american oil firms ’ holdings in 2007 ) restricted investment and held back production . starved of cash , pdvsa was forced to cut back on maintenance and expansion , which was adding car accidents and restricted production .
moreover , while a preemptive strike would postpone iran ’s nuclear efforts , it would not stop the regime from rebuilding , and might also create the conditions that create problems for the regime ’s domestic opponents . an armed attack by the united states , israel , or both on iran ’s nuclear installations is yet another possibility . one downside of such a prospect that iran would likely retaliate against american interests and personnel in iraq and afghanistan , and use hamas and hezbollah against israel and others . but , despite these potential drawbacks , an armed attack on iran ’s nuclear facilities will and should remain a distinct possibility , given the enormous strategic costs of a nuclear-armed iran . iran might also interfere with oil traffic , leading to a price spike and delivering another blow to the american and global economic recovery .
lord north is remembered for losing the british union with america . two centuries on , outgoing prime minister david cameron may be remembered for losing both unions – with europe and between england and scotland . and with northern ireland ’s republican majority , headed by sinn fein , demanding a vote to re-unify with the south , the very existence of the uk is now stood squarely on the agenda . whereas the conservatives want scotland to become a non-european britain , scottish nationalists want a europe without britain . there is one way to lessen uncertainty and risk : the government should quickly announce that it would negotiate with the eu under the norway option of eu membership .
a power-sharing agreement is all but unthinkable , and syria ’s geography does not bode well for an orderly division along the sectarian lines . assad ’s aims of war have been reduced to avoiding a decisive defeat and gaining international legitimacy in the hope of a favorable political solution . sht-knit members of his clan , his political allies , and many members of the alawite minority will struggle to benefit from their survival . the rise of the islamic state has been lent credence to the government ’s contention that syria risks being dragged down by terrorist groups ; meanwhile , the regime is finding itself increasingly isolated . assad ’s ’s final days , indeed , seems unlikely to be as well .
this is a narrative afflicting all segments of society , the middle class no less than the wealthy . yet it is not so much their self-interest that stands in the way of greater equality and social inclusion . if the super-rich believe that they are no longer part of society and have little need for government , that is not because that belief corresponds to objective reality . it is because the prevailing narrative lines of our times portrays markets as self-standing entities running on their own fuel . there is little reason to expect that the super-rich will behave less selfishly than any other group .
but while it may explain why capital expenditure has been weak , and interest rates have remained low during the last three years , it can not account for why the expenditure on capital spending has proved inadequate to prevent rates from trending downward for more than three decades . finally , central banks should set a higher inflation target , giving them more room to cut nominal interest rates in response to a future slowdown . here , the only explanation still stands out is a shift in the composition of activity away from capital-intensive forms of production , like manufacturing , to capital-intensive activity like services . there should be a tax incentives for firms to hire the long-term unemployed ; more public spending on infrastructure , training , and research to compensate for a shortfall in private-sector capital spending ; and still higher equity requirements for banks and strengthened bank financial institutions ’ regulation to prevent them from excessive risk-taking . if disorder has multiple causes , then multiple treatments should be available .
across russia , a form of criminalized diplomacy takes root . look at putin ’s attempt to rig ukraine ’s previous presidential election and , again , off again , criminal charges brought against opposition leader yuliya tymoshenko . once again , exposure to western values has delivered another potemkin village ; russia presents a façade of law and democratic institutions , but behind that cardboard surface , an equally arbitrary brutes rule . look at putin ’s attempt to rig ukraine in its previous presidential election , with again off criminal charges brought against putin by opposition leader yuliya tymoshenko . once again , exposure to western values has delivered yet another potemkin village ; russia presents the façade of law and democratic institutions ; but behind this cardboard surface surface , an equally arbitrary brutes rule .
a democratic latin america limps ways out , because it can not run ahead . just across the region , the politicians that nobel laureate octavio paz once referred to the “ philanthropic ogres ” creation of eu customers , those that expect instead to be push . just as a democratic latin america limps along the way , it can not run ahead . throughout the hemisphere , paternalistic governments accustom people to receiving simply enough to survive the eu into society . throughout latin america , too many people live with outstretched hands .
two examples from the wef ’s global competitiveness index and its new , inclusive growth and development index ( s & d ) . but this is not what these indexes actually measure . instead , the indexes comprise variables when they refer to as the “ policy space ” – that is , they are supposed to cause either competitiveness or inclusive growth . competitiveness , for example , has to do with the ability to increase the market share , without sacrificing margin margins , or lowering wages – something that reflects superior productivity . inclusiveness of growth has to do with income disparities and growth across different regions and social groups .
from the 1960s and 1970s on , those writing about the netherlands often lamented a “ dutch disease . ” whether one considered the dutch welfare state to be humane and generous , or congested , and foolhardy and foolhardy , its largesse took a heavy toll on the economy . so , unlike , say , the french , the dutch reacted to their past excesses with a set of policies intended to encourage a return to work in the formal labor market . but , unlike , say , the french , the dutch reacted with their past excesses with a set of policies intended to encourage a return to work within the formal labor market . whether one considered the dutch welfare state humane and generous , and bloated , its largesse had taken a heavy toll on its economy .
yet important segments of the global financial and economic elite seem to think that unless the american economy falls into recession in the coming months , trump will be reelected . moreover , their prognosis is based not only on fear of being wrong yet again ; many seem to have been resigned to such an outcome , and some might even hope for it . to be sure , there is little in common with trump and adolf hitler . but , in their apparent acceptance of trump ’s reelection , large segments of the liberal establishment behave like germany ’s ’s ’s financial and industrial elites , when hitler rose to power in the 1930s . at that point , the comparison with the 1930s inevitably comes into mind .
to avoid such a future , asian countries need to change the “ rules of the game , ” which provide youth opportunities , whatever their backdrop , to ascend the income ladder . governments must take action , complementing their pro-growth policies with policies aimed at ensuring that the gains are shared far more equally and sustainably . to be sure , some asian governments have sought to tackle inequality with progressive redistribution policies . for example , south korea ’s government recently announced that it will raise the minimum wage next year by 16.4 % , to 7,530 won ( $ 6.70 ) a hour , and up to 55 % above its current level , by 2020 . yet market mechanisms alone are not sufficient to make this happen .
sharon had his troops ascend over the sand dunes to enter the trench lines at his or her top end and assault down his length – a simple maneuver that the egyptians could defeat did not turn out to be pinned by an artillery barrage and israeli tanks to firing directly against them . israeli infantrymen had taped flashlights to their helmets , so that the tank gunners would be able to place themselves directly at the egyptians merely ahead of them . the egyptian command blocked a central highway across the sinai , with an enriched box containing powerful artillery and more than a hundred tanks , fronted by the three parallel trench-lines manned by thousands of infantrymen and anchored on sand dunes and high ground at every turn . but paratroopers , the helicopter flown , abruptly jumped the egyptian gun crews who never had a chance in hand-to-hand combat . still , the egyptian artillery had been superior and was supposed to have at least silenced the trench tanks .
in the longer run , countries should aim to match participation rates in conventional , first-aid courses . in the last three years , 11 % of australia ’s population has finished such a course , owing partly to the requirements that people in certain positions , such as child-care workers , have first-aid certificates . requiring people in particular occupations , including high-school teachers , nurses , and police officers , obtaining a mental-health first-aid certification would dramatically enhance participation , thereby reinforcing support for those who are struggling with mental-health problems . such certifications are all the more critical in the developing world , given the limited availability of mental-health professionals . pilot work in rural india shows that a mental-health first-aid approach can be successfully tailored to the needs of scarce communities .
the tragedies of millions of impoverished people dying from aids even when drugs exist to treat them raises deep questions about global intellectual-property rights , because patent protection establishes a barrier to vital medicines reaching the world ’s poor . in response to this offering ( and therefore bad publicity ) , merck , abbott laboratories , and bristol myers squibb , three large patent-holding companies announced that their willingness to supply the african market at “ zero yield ” – ie , at about $ 500 per patient per year for the aids drugs that they produce . but how can the benefits of a global patent system produce incentives for innovation and new discoveries combine with the assurance that poor people gain access to the medical expertise they are desperately needed ? the costs of producing those drugs , however , are far less than the market price – perhaps as low as $ 350 – $ 500 per year for some three-drug combinations used to treat aids . some high-quality drug producers , like india ’s cipla , have offered to provide those drugs at prices close to production costs .
having never held an elected office , macron has created a new , centered party , with the support of both center-left and center-right voters . but what if populist movements ’ continuing electoral success helps to drive forward the wider political restructuring that ultimately reinforce european democracy ? that reading is reinforced by the experience of macron himself . he appears to have restructured french politics in the process . next year ’s european parliament election is likely to reveal more about the potential for such a political restructuring .
washington , dc – in december 2014 , a cover of time magazine ’s “ person of the year ” issue featured salome karwah , a nursing assistant who not only survived the ebola epidemic in her home liberia a year later , but also helped waves of patients arriving at her ebola ward . karwah was the hero whose meeting was met with a tragic end . one year ago , she died from complications in birth , a killer that each month takes roughly twice as many lives as the entire ebola epidemic . in the nineteenth century , just as almost one in 100 european pregnancies in europe ended up with a mother ’s death . karwah was dangerous for women and newborns throughout human history .
the rest of the region wanted to emulate them . to be sure , refugee labor poses delicate political issues to syria ’s arab neighbors . an estimated two million syrians are living in turkey , with more than one million living in jordan . unemployment in turkey and jordan is around 10 % and 12 % , respectively , and their governments are naturally wary of programs that could impose costs on their citizens . the unemployment rate in turkey and jordan is approximately 10 % and 12 % , respectively , and their governments are naturally wary of programs that might make the cost of their citizens a job .
now that us politicians are speaking of “ freedom , ” people are seeing bombing campaigns , of torture chambers , and the continuing threat of lethal drones . the problem for obama has been rooted in his conflicting nature . one reason that americans elected obama in 2008 was that the rhetoric of american idealism again led to the death and displacement of millions . but the language used by those wars neo-conservative promoters came straight from the kennedy era : the proliferation of democracy , the causes of liberty , and the universal authority of “ america ’s values . ” the reasons why us president george w. bush chose to go to war in afghanistan and iraq were no doubt complex .
this summer , for example , china and russia conducted their first-ever grandconstituted joint military exercises there . this followed , in response to russian news reports , that the us , china , russia , and india would conduct a trilateral military exercise , named for “ indira 2005 , ” ” ” ” ” on a similar scale before this year ’s end . in the past , such a combination of countries became nearly unthinkable , and these exercises can not be explained away as simple , one-off ” affairs with little resonance . but that ’s because bush did not start addressing an issue that is looming ever larger in the region : a change face of security in asia , given china ’s rising economic and military might . president bush ’s recent visit to asia made little news in history , by design .
they should think of reforms , which involve giving city governments the skills , resources , and the responsibility to address health and health-care outcomes . emerging-market governments need to address critical questions that arise from weak coordination within and among the national and municipal governments on health and health-care policies and programs . proven schemes and reforms should be shared among emerging-market cities , and successful new innovations and ideas should be adapted to local conditions . this includes new and affordable technologies , such as the low-cost mobile telephony of the use of community-health workers . anticipatory city-planning , based on realistic demographic forecasts , patient registers , and health-information systems , as well as city participation in city health-knowledge networks , must be implemented .
shanghai – tight media control over the unrest in tibet has been followed by what , to some , looks like far more open coverage in the devastating earthquake in sichuan province . is this a change in china ’s media strategy or a just short period of time a shift in tactics ? that question stands out , given chinese public opinion in the latter phases of the tibet crisis . much to the consternation of western media ’s consternation , the chinese worldwide lashed out against its allegedly biased tibetan revolt coverage . the game of thrones of chinese expatriates and students took to the streets , protesting the prejudices they perceived in western media reporting .
meanwhile , our gatherer ancestors ate carbohydrate ( polymers of glucose ) , which was also transported to the liver through the glycolytic pathway and broke down for power . any excess glucose has stimulated the pancreas to release insulin , which transported glucose to peripheral fat tissue , and which likewise caused the liver to store glucose as glycogen ( liver starch ) . as a result , our forebears remained healthy . and nature has its part , by supplying everything naturally to everyone occurring foodstuffs with either fat or carbohydrate as energy sources , rather than both . to be sure , their livers , too , have remained healthy .
there is a widespread misperception in the developed world that we have already won the battle against aids hiv/aids . in reality , at some point , the crisis has only become less visible . sub-saharan africa possesses 10 % of the world ’s population , but it is home to some 70 % of these hiv/aids living . across africa , the disease is estimated to have cut average national growth rates by 2-4 percentage points annually . there are 2.4 million new infections annually , and 34 million people live with hiv/aids , requiring treatment to stay alive .
the uk would have to adopt the sort of satellite state in place that norway , iceland , and liechtenstein now have , accepting and implementing the decisions that it would assume no part in shaping . if this democratic deficit is unacceptably high for the uk , it will be left alone , out of the economic cold . leaving the single market would create grave uncertainty for the british economy , particularly its financial sector . even the u.s. has made it clear that it would be reluctant to negotiate a separate free-trade deal with the uk . remaining in the single market , however , has come at a cost – one that british voters may not be backing .
the first is the governance of afghan control , which depends on the orderly withdrawal of american and nato forces by 2014 . the latter include elections as well , to be held in the 2014 election , of a new afghan president – a process that needs to permit the united states and its nato allies to claim plausibly that they are handing the country over to a legitimate government . for afghanistan , ravaged by war without respite from the “ saur revolution ” of 1978 , the endgame will be even more nerve-wracking . as the curtain drops , two developments will give an enormous impact on the withdrawal process and the ultimate outcome . how america ’s military will leave will enter yet another period of political and strategic uncertainty following almost a half-century of disorder and civil war .
new york – watching a sophisticated democratic society knowingly walk into predictable , avoidable national catastrophe is a rare and alarming experience . they are not sleepwalking into an abyss ; their eyes are wide open . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere elsewhere in the world . most british politicians are well aware that leaving the european union with no agreement on a post-brexit relationship will do enormous damage to their countries .
after all , such changes are best served not by imposing stifling sanctions , or by means of military “ shock and awe ” tactics , as in iraq , but by socioeconomic improvement and diplomatic engagement through outside powers . indeed , the predictions that cuba might now shift toward a chinese-style model of political autocracy and economic opening might be accurate only in the short run . the normalization of us-american relations is the key to progress toward liberalization in cuba . in fact , even if the american people have not been trying to normalize relations , russia ’s current economic woes presumably will have doomed its longstanding , and already much-diminished , – for example , its support for the castro government . this is no longer an option , either .
while countries have not descended completely into protectionism since the global financial crisis erupted , difficult economic and labor-market conditions in key countries may force policymakers to protect domestic markets while seeking to acquire external competitiveness . but , while vigilance is in order , the chance that major countries will embrace competitive devaluations – initiating genuine currency wars in the process – is slim . it is well known that weidmann seems not to love it when central banks , particularly the european central bank , are buying up sovereign bonds . but , arguing that unconventional monetary-policy measures would carry risks for the “ much stronger politicizing ” exchange rate ” misses the mark . in recent years , so far , much political activity has focused either on exchange rates in ways that imply new economic and political divisions .
moreover , although studies suggest that short , straight measurable economic benefits at the national level are relatively small , and unskilled workers may suffer from competition , skilled migrants may be relevant to particular economic sectors . indeed , the us census bureau projects that the american population will grow by 49 % over the next four decades . a 1 % increase in immigrant university graduates leads to a 6 % increase in annual patents per capita . today the us is the world of the third most populous country ; more than 50 years from now , it still looks likely to be third ( after only china and india ) . not only is the rate of immigration relevant to economic power ; given that almost all developed countries are aging and facing the burden of providing for older generations , it could help to lessen the sharpness of the policy problem .
likewise , emphasis on markets ’ “ decisive role ” in upgrading china ’s industrial structure , and on eliminating excess capacity , is compatible with the third plenum ’s stated goal of achieving a market-based shift toward a consumption-driven society . but what has emerges from all of this is yet another instance of the timeworn “ wiring ” approach to chinese economic policymaking – countless proposals , initiatives , and goals that are loosely connected at best , and that are often buffeted by internal inconsistencies . in fact , just two out of the six major economic tasks identified by the work conference fit neatly with a third plenum ’s strategic agenda . a new approach is needed , and it will require three key changes to china ’s ’s ’s economic-policy framework . the call for augmented social security is in line with the third plenum ’s proposal to allocate 30 % of state-owned enterprises ’ profits to fund safety-net programs like pensions and health care .
the vital economic reality confronting the ecb today is that america ’s economy seems to be sliding headlong into a severe slump – bernanke ’s surprise cut speaks volumes to that . it defies economic logic to think that the global economy – including europe – will outperform its aftermath . as europe ’s growth slows , so , too , will inflationary pressures . even with sticky wages and prices in europe , the global slowdown will depress energy , commodity , and food prices in world markets – all of which are important factors behind the currently elevated levels of european inflation . so trichet should relax , stop threatening others , and let the economic slowdown do work for him .
hungarian prime minister victor orbán is putin ’s staunchest friend in europe ( though greek prime minister alexis tsipras seems to want to change that ) , while poland ’s leaders have consistently warned that russia might once again become a menace to the continent again . as a result , whereas hungary pays gazprom only $ 260 per thousand cubic meters of gas , poland pays only $ 526 – the highest price in the eu . all the major players in russia ’s energy-centric economy quickly went into line politically , enabling putin to use the country ’s oil and gas exports as a geopolitical cudgel . the poles have paid a steep price , but they were right . unable to bully militarily , owing to nato , eu countries have been wooed by rebates , or by punished for price-hikes .
but , while accusations about biopiracy may have emotional appeal , impartial analyses have shown that they have little factual basis in common . in fact , biopiracy is rare , so rare that it can be dealt with directly . the seed treaty achieves that by establishing a multilateral system to access an agreed list of agricultural genetic resources . instead , the world created a baroque , bureaucratic , politicized system that systematically inhibits scientific research , plant breeding , and creating intellectual property . the seed treaty has also brought under the control of its parties , and secretariat the 15 research institutes that comprise the consultative group on international agricultural research ( cgiar ) , an influential global research partnership .
moreover , unlike during ahmadinejad ’s first term , the non-state media are now publicly criticizing his economic and political agenda . in fact , he has long promoted mashai as his successor , but khamenei has curbed his illicit efforts – and has now imposed a stop to mashai ’s candidacy altogether . it has also reduced the resources channeled toward certain religious institutions , helping those within his circle to establish private banks through the easing of regulations , and challenged iran ’s most powerful economic and military institution , the islamic revolutionary guard corps ( irgc ) . but , as the rift between khamenei and ahmadinejad has grown , support for the president has waned considerably , with even state-run media referring to ahmadinejad ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s most deviation circle . with the end of ahmadinejad ’s second and final term fast approaching , the disgraced president seems unlikely to abandon his efforts to destabilize iran ’s ruling establishment .
the tax plan emphasized that italy , like japan ’s , is a country of public debt and private wealth . under monti ’s management , the reforms were finally initiated , and the markets were calmed . as the economist marco fortis points out , italy ’s family wealth remains , if not for long , second - to none of europe . beyond boosting its international credibility , two profound changes to the italian political landscape shaped italy ’s election campaign . to boost italy ’s credibility in its public finances , monti ’s government has received substantially higher taxes , particularly on real estate , while retaining an already high income-tax rate .
one of the hardest lessons for senior government officers to learn – ­ including for me when i was the australian attorney general and foreign minister – is futility in all but a minuscule minority of cases of trying to prosecute and punish those responsible for leaks . prosecution typically boosts leakers ’ stature , making it useless as a deterrent . it does n’t undo initial harm and typically compounds it with further publicity . but some lines need to be drawn when good government is made possible , just as a privacy zone within our personal and family lives is critical to sustaining the relationships that matter most to us . the news media are never more enthusiastic about free speech than in seeing it as a reddening face , with rage or humiliation , of those in power .
she wants to come out before voters realized that the leave campaign had sold them a false campaign of goods , including a promise that they could keep all of the benefits of eu membership – particularly full access to the european single market – without allowing the free movement of labor . she also knows that she can not possibly succeed politically , because she will always shine a light on the media , while hardly anyone can noticing “ win . ” clearly , no form of brexit – or post-brexit britain – can please the two groups . this helps to explain may ’s desperation to push brexit through as fast as possible . moreover , while may was in the “ “ remain ” camp during the referendum campaign , she realizes that , as prime minister , she would be held responsible for any setbacks in the brexit negotiations .
among other things , such surveys should aim to forge a robust picture of adolescents ’ exposure to avoidable risk factors like alcohol and illicit drug use , unsafe sexual behaviors , violence , obesity , physical inactivity , and unhealthy diets . according to the global burden of disease study , health risk factors explain at least 50 % of early deaths and disability among adults aged 50 and above ; for young people , figure drops to just 26 % . at the same time , data-collection efforts should include a focus on advances in mental health . to complement this effort , we must also invest to enhance our understanding of how these risk factors – most frequently explored in connection with early childhood and adulthood – affect adolescents ’ health . worldwide , more studies are needed to inform health policies and planning adequately .
but talk of regime change may have spurred musharraf to re-enter politics again . only a politician who has the backing of major constituencies can hope to restore political order and economic health , and musharraf presents himself as a candidate whom the military may be able to support . “ there is a sense of despondency in pakistan . pakistan these days is a troubled country , just as it is economically . yet , in a prolonged interview with the bbc before launching his new party , musharraf suggested that pakistan ’s army is the only institution to save the country from its current woes .
with policymakers effectively rewarded for myopic thinking , western democracies find themselves struggling to secure stable long-term growth in ways that are , say , an authoritarian china is not . there are at least two ways in which this problem can be tackled in a democratic context . first , governments could be bound to be more resolutely committed to their predecessors ’ political choices . that way , more forward-thinking legislation that has been discussed and enacted will have the time actually to take effect , with no risk that it will simply reenact a consequential administration . the european union provides one example of how long-term , binding commitments can work .
at the wef in incheon , nobel peace prize laureate kailash satyarthi called for a mass popular movement demanding that education put itself prominently on the agenda of any politician running for election , at all levels of government . incheon ’s declaration calls for allocating at least 15-20 % of total public spending to education . for the sdgs to be operational , education has to receive higher billing , nationally , and globally . this begins with the political will and setting priorities . moreover , the ongoing decline in aid toward education must be reversed , with new financial resources – like emerging-economy donors , the private sector , foundations , and philanthropists – must be mobilized .
the nbu ’s management understands that it must act to contain inflation , but its insistence on the dollar peg ties its hands because it prevents them from raising interest rates sufficiently . instead , they reverted to tight reserve requirements , effectively rationing credit , and , in turn , triggering a domestic credit squeeze amid the current international financial crisis , likely compelling some medium-sized banks to default , owing to liquidity problems . as a result , ukraine ’s stock of money supply , the m3 , burst at zero less than the other 52 % rate over the past year , which points to inflation hitting 30 % soon . ukraine ’s current refinance rate is 16 % annually , 10 % less than the rate of inflation , implying that ukraine has a negative real interest rate of 10 % per year . rationing is always worse than a market , and it is a significant danger .
the first concerns iranian domestic politics and the ongoing power struggle within the regime – & the struggle that scuttled a diplomatic solution once earlier – because neither the conservatives nor the reformers were ready to allow president mahmoud ahmadinejad a diplomatic triumph . the fall of president bashar al-assad ’s regime would come to terms with a strategic debacle for iran , which could then confront a united front of the arab states , with support from turkey , the united states , and , in a way , israel , too . iran would then find it more difficult to maintain its foothold in lebanon , and its standing would become more complicated even in iraq , despite its shia majority . developments in syria , iran ’s last remaining ally in the region , are just as likely to play a role . one can only hope that , given the seriousness of the situation , this route to failure would close off .
as mark leonard , the european council ’s director for foreign relations , has put it , “ the conventional wisdom is that europe ’s hour has come and gone . ” its lack of vision , divisions , obsession with legal frameworks , an unwillingness to project military might , and a sclerotic economy stood in stark contrast to the united states as a more dominant even than rome … . the problem is not europe , which is our outdated understanding of power . the eu ’s ’s approach to power-sharing , hammering out agreements , and resolving conflict through multiple committees can be frustrating and lacks drama ; but it has become increasingly relevant to numerous issues in a networked and interdependent world . the american political scientist andrew moravcsik makes the similar argument that european nations , singly and collectively , are the only states other than the us , which is capable of “ “ exert global influence ” across the full spectrum from ‘ hard ’ to ‘ ‘ soft ’ power . ’ insofar as the term maintains any meaning , the world is bipolar and is likely to remain so for the foreseeable future
tehran – iranians will head to the polls on june 12 to elect a new president . while some argue that president mahmoud ahmadinejad ’s reelection is a foregone conclusion , the outcome is , in fact , not out of anything clear . indeed , on march 21 , ayatollah khamenei has said that there are some early rumors that i support a particular candidate for the presidential election . but i hold one vote , and i would not designate a certain candidate , because the people themselves should elect their candidates based on their own knowledge . iran ’s supreme leader , ayatollah ali khamenei , has spoken out repeatedly in public settings that he wo n’t declare a preference among the candidate .
likewise , moving to a regionally competitive tax system will raise taxable earnings , particularly in the short run , as us companies repatriate some of the existing stock of overseas funds . but that will be offset by limits on personal tax deductions and exclusions , and lower personal income tax rates will boost taxable incomes as individuals boost earnings , and compensation shifts from fringe benefits to taxable cash . there is an important legislative reason why the projected budget will return to surplus in the future . while net tax changes may widen the budget deficit in the short run , the incentives effects of lower tax rates and increased capital accumulation will mean more faster economic growth and higher real incomes – both of which will cause rising taxable incomes and lower long-term deficits . while net tax changes may widen the budget deficit in the short run , the incentives effects of lower tax rates and increased capital accumulation will mean more faster economic growth and higher real incomes – both of which will cause rising taxable incomes and lower long-term deficits .
combining it has brought its asylum system close to collapsing ; separating it would help to ensure that those in fear for their lives can be given a fair hearing in which their rights are protected . addressing genuine economic and social needs in the eu will require an effective blue – or green-card policy for economic migrants with an overall immigration goal . and policymakers must not wait until the next migration crisis before implementing such a scheme . the eu must also revitalize its operations sophia initiative to tackle refugee smuggling in the mediterranean . second , it is our need to manage our economic migrants and asylum-seekers in isolation .
to what extent are today ’s conditions , comparable to those triggered by the 1997 asian crisis or other abrupt capital-flow reversals of recent decades ? in both cases , the effort to safeguard the fixed exchange rate in the face of capital-flow reversals was a major factor , as was true in turkey in a year prior to its currency collapse in february 2001 . will the fed ’s gradual loosening of qe involve more emerging-market problems this year ? emerging-market bulls stress that most high-income countries have substantially reduced their public debt/gdp ratios , giving them the fiscal space they had lacked in the past . but neither the mexican “ tequila crisis ” of 1994 nor the asian crisis of 1997 has been borne by large public deficits .
at the same time , younger people in their fifties and sixties would like remain economically productive , perhaps 20-30 hours a week . at the same time , younger people have long spent more on education , leisure , friends , and , crucially , their children . both aspirations can be satisfied if societies allow older people to work more years and let everyone to work fewer hours . one possibility is to move toward an average workweek of 25 hours and an average working life that ranges from 70 – and even higher ages if healthy life expectancy continues to rise . such a reform could be implemented over a couple of decades without slowing economic growth or declining prosperity .
denmark ’s government has done just that , and now seems to be bringing the danish public around to the idea of joining the euro . to be sure , the matter is that commitment , by which the eu is now strapped . prime minister tony blair has evidently been convinced of the strategic desirability of joining europe ; but , because a vote in the referendum now looks so implausible that he is unlikely to try . british public opinion is now so hostile , to the eu generally , and to europe , especially , that a referendum could not be won without a massive government campaign of persuasion . to be sure , “ vote ” britain in this way is simply impossible .
a recent report by the bipartisan national commission on energy policy exemplifies a new coalition . the centerpiece of the scenarios considered by the intergovernmental panel on climate change projects that atmospheric co2 concentrations will reach almost three times its pre-industrial level in 2100 . while president bush argues that technological advances toward hydrogen fuels and fuel-cell phone cells will curb oil imports in the long run , such actions demand major changes in transportation infrastructure , which will require a decade to come . while the bush administration remains skeptical of science behind such projections , some state and local governments are implementing measures to cut co2 emissions . more fundamentally , companies like general electric are committing to green goals that go well beyond government regulation .
the important point for students to bear in mind is that they should motivate themselves to attain deep understanding , not rote memorization , of subjects they study , to fulfill the role of true specialists in whatever field they ultimately choose to pursue . at the same time , they should invest in acquiring communications skills that will be similarly crucial to successful careers . the people in those fields are ultimately bought and sold by corporate managers as much as people in technical fields . hardly anyone makes it all the way to reach the summit in a trading world . achieving that kind of education might probably means pursuing what one naturally finds interesting and engaging , whether that is funded or in physiology .
but that day is also about spreading a message in the name of elizabeth ii and other women like her : abortion , while in many countries a political wedge issue , is simply the reality of life . in the united states , 61 % of abortion patients live in their twenties ; 59 % are already mothers ; and almost two-thirds identify themselves with an organized religion . but , at the same time , abortion is most common in the developing world , where access to family-planning services is often narrow . every year , 25 % of all pregnancies – some $ 56 million – go to an end . abortion occurs in every country , as well as in any socioeconomic class .
a second argument is that if the ecb were to take firm , workers would not demand higher nominal wages , for they would understand that this would simply result in higher interest rates and higher unemployment . this argument is not irrelevant ; monetary policy probably has some effect on wage bargaining . but one should not expect too much from a tight ecb stance . if and when wage pressure does occur , the ecb , to stay true to its word , may be forced to raise interest rates far more than it now expects . the ecb should not delude itself to thinking that a minor rate hike will be enough .
megaupload allowed his 180 million registered users to upload and download movies , tv shows and music , and some of the money that dotcom ’s money ( from advertisements and subscriptions ) was on display at his mansion , near auckland , where it was maintained rolls-royce and other exotic cars . dotcom ’s lawyer claims that megaupload merely provided storage for its subscribers , with no control over what they store . but megaupload offered cash rewards to users who uploaded the gave files that demonstrate popular with other users . last month , the united states was considering legislation that aimed at halting internet piracy . bills had been written at the urging of hollywood studios and publishing and recording industries , which argue that online copyright breaches cost america 100,000 jobs .
moscow -- when the opening ceremony of the beijing olympic games begins in a few days , viewers will be presented with a minutely choreographed spectacle swathed in nationalist kitsch . indeed , by electing albert speer jr. , the son of hitler ’s favorite architect and the designer of the 1936 berlin olympics to design his master plan for the beijing games , china ’s government itself alluded to the radical politicization of aesthetics , which was a hallmark of twentieth-century totalitarianism . to be sure , images that recall adolf hitler ’s goose-stepping storm troopers are just the latest thing that china ’s leaders had in mind for their olympics ; after all , official chinese nationalism proclaims poland ’s “ peaceful rise ” within an idyll of a harmonious development . but , both aesthetically and politically , the parallel is hardly far-fetched . like those regimes , whether fascist or communist , china ’s leaders have sought to convert public spaces and sporting events into visible evidence of their fitness and mandate to govern .
if anything , economists ’ embrace of that role has grown tenaciously ever since . but it has also made the subject less relevant and diminished its legitimacy and credibility . economists no longer see that large segments of the public can question the right questions , or seek to answer them with integrity . to regain credibility , economics needs a more open approach to criticism about assumptions , methods , and outcomes . the inconvenient truths voiced by dissenting voices can not be ignored indefinitely .
europe is in the throes of multiple economic , social , political , and institutional crises . the united states is a reckoning with a once-unstable president , plutocratic cabinet , and republican congressional majorities . by contrast , china is dynamic and outward-looking – providing good reason for the eu to assume vigorous leadership and engage in constructive partnerships with china on key initiatives ( like sustainable infrastructure across eurasia ) . in short , this is a critical time for germany and europe to provide vision , stability , and global leadership . and that imperative extends to german chancellor angela merkel ’s christian democratic union ( cdu ) , its bavarian sister party , the christian social union ( csu ) , and the spd .
in keeping with china ’s recent effort to project its “ soft ” side , the opening ceremony produced an idea of an historic but dynamic culture at its best . equally significant was china ’s projection as the nascent leader of a new international cultural order . many of the artists involved in establishing the spectacle , including the chief fireworks of catherine ashton qiang , marine star shen wei , and the composer of tan dun , earned their glory primarily in the west . yet bird ’s nest ” stadium was the creation of a multinational design team of herzog & de meuron , with its suggestions from the visual artist ai weiwei . other than the presence of a handful of people ’s liberation army troops , you would be hard-pressed to find any visible proof of the reigning communist regime , or of its founder , mao zedong .
my own research , which has included thousands of interviews with women , from india to burkina faso , has centered around a single question : how could the international community improve the well-being of the world ’s poorest women ? the answer , it turns out , is to help that them do the same thing on their own . one of the most effective ways to empower women anywhere , but especially in the developing world , is by promoting financial independence . in many areas , this means supporting “ informal savings groups , ” ” ” networks of like-minded women who pay dues to build a shared pool of resources . this money can then be drawn to fund any number of items , like small business expenses , school fees , or health-care costs .
indeed , europeans should understand that this viewpoint is spreading globally , particularly on the other side of the atlantic . what really mattered in heiligendamm was not the decisions taken by any putative global government , but the fact that the g8 days now seem numbered . president putin ’s behavior at the summit clearly demonstrated what he thinks of europeans ; not too much . politically and economically , though , china and india are more significant today than some european g8 members . so , too , the summit was far from a miracle .
though the eu argues that the epas will buttress the afcfta , preliminary research indicates that the trade gains brought by the epas , as negotiated , are likely to be concentrated on a handful of agricultural products – and to exclude least-developed countries . in most areas , epas will actually hurt intra-african trade , weakening trade revenues , and undermining trade-driven industrialization in africa . given this , epa proponents argue , a special fund should be established to compensate for some short-term losses . african leaders are right to be concerned , as well . some argue that the problem has more to be related to timing , because the losses are likely to materialize immediately , and the possible benefits brought to increased eu access will take longer to emerge .
he demonstrated how history can be presented and appreciated in totally different ways : from an american or a japanese point of view , even as no one was producing facts or falsifying the sources . for americans , there had been `` heroic or victorious '' accounts , in which atomic bombs were representing the final blow against an aggressive , enola gay , a plane that dropped an atomic bomb on hiroshima . john dower , the american academic and specialized in modern japan , studied the issue on length . indeed , selection and the pooling of data are enough , with all the more money , to be held . for example , at 1995 the smithsonian institution in washington sought to take a fresh look at an enola gay , a plane that dropped an atomic bomb on hiroshima .
any new deal would be possible with several bells and whistles . it would put pressure on the real issues down the road , rather than bringing an end to the brexit debate . it would have to be paved together at the october 17 european council summit , where europe ’s leaders are now growing increasingly frustrated with the whole process . moreover , johnson has already disbanded the nato service team , which had been leading the previous negotiations . that show has years to run , anyway .
likewise , our inability to come together to stop syrian president bashar al-assad ’s war crimes against his own people has left the void being filled by putin and iran . and , as if our failure to ensure stability in our own neighborhood had not been enough , we also enabled right-wing populist and nationalist movements to take off within europe itself . these movements , actively fomented by russia , have produced homegrown political leaders who frighteningly , but not surprisingly , resemble those of putin and erdoğan . poland ’s de facto leader , jarosław kaczyński , and hungarian prime minister viktor orbán , in particular , have been busily constructing illiberal intra-eu states . european leaders have too often shout from the sidelines when they should be on the ground , action to defend common european interests .
as the nature of work shifts , so must the nature of benefit systems . for example , delivering benefits “ points , ” rather than money denominated in a particular currency , would enable regimes to operate across borders at a time when workers are increasingly required to do the same thing . and standardized educational credentials would retain their value as they move with those who made them . to deliver opportunity and security to everyone , everywhere at a time of widespread technological disruption , governments and private-sector actors must work together to advance the kind of innovative solutions that match workers ’ urgent and evolving needs . a common framework must also be designed to allow such programs to be scaled up and deployed in different contexts .
moreover , even without a timely correction , brazil will respond to the crisis in far different ways to mexico . rightly or wrongly , mexican policymakers were in the awe of wall street ; brazil had no such hang up . ultimately , brazilian policymakers are worried , rather than foreign investors ’ prosperity . on the surface and well off , brazil has genuinely taken a dramatic turn : inflation is down to insignificant levels . should and when the latter side , brazilian policymakers shed few tears for international investors .
but while techniques already exist , success will require increasing the use of no-till farming , embracing the principles of permaculture , better managing wetlands , and applying rotational techniques of grazing , among others . transforming how people acquire and consume energy , and use land , will require strong incentives and policy frameworks to set the course for success . by incorporating carbon-reduction strategies into agriculture and land conservation , more heat-trapping gases could be locked into forests and soils . but do n’t despair : there is still time to save our climate . the power of markets to drive radical shifts in energy and land use is great ; but , as the 2017 arab storms should remind us , the climate emergency that we face calls for vigorous and urgent action .
but , after former us president barack obama attempted to right the american health-care catastrophe at a halfway point , arguably the most politically feasible by the time – – those vying for the democratic nomination apparently have more ambitious plans . but their proposals , a single-payer system ( “ medicare for all ” ” ” ” ) , a national health service , or something else , do not all mean equal terms . many democratic candidates have called for a major expansion of government-sponsored health care ( bds ) . several contenders – including bernie sanders , elizabeth warren , kamala harris , and beto o’rourke – disagree completely about the details of these regimes , either , or are simply not spelled out . meanwhile , warren has proposed introducing universal childcare , to be financed with a wealth tax on fortunes above $ 50 million .
but there is another explanation , one that fits fully with rationality and self-interest . when mainstream politicians lose their credibility , it is only natural for voters to discount the promises that they make . for their part , voters are more likely to be attracted to anti-establishment candidates and can safely be expected to depart from prevailing policies . in the language of economists , then , centrist politicians face the problem of asymmetric information . they claim to be reformers , but why should voters believe leaders who seem no different from the previous crop of politicians that oversold them the gains from globalization and pooh-poohed their grievances ?
today , leaders in rwanda , which is widely regarded as an african success story , have improved their stability by moving away from a washington consensus approach to governance . the landslide reelection of president paul kagame last year had more to do with power than with democracy . although kagame remains popular , his government has been widely criticized for stifling free speech and human rights in the run-up to the ballot box . a conclusion i draw is not that human rights do not matter ; but that political discipline and imperfect forms of democracy are acceptable if the tradeoff is sustained by progress toward economic and institutional governance . politically , rwanda has strong , disciplined , and organized .
from the perspective of their priorities , it is arguably more important for g-20 governments to tighten core systems that allow for global flows of global flows than it is for dealing with strictly economic issues . moreover , there is a clear , shared interest in doing just that : nobody benefits from widening systemic risk . cross-border flows of goods , information , people , and capital that are its lifeblood relies on a threshold level of safety , stability , and predictability . continued economic progress throughout the developing world and recovery in advanced countries demands to prevent local and regional conflicts from delivering large systemic shocks . it is this threshold that seems to be under threat .
washington , dc – participants in the occupy wall street movement are right to argue that big banks were never properly investigated for home mortgages origination , aggregation , and securitization behavior that was central to the financial crisis – and to the losses of more than eight million jobs – for investors . but leading us banks are also charged with illegal behavior , which has inducing people to borrow , for example , by restating them about the interest rate that would indeed pay off , while misrepresenting the resulting mortgage-backed securities to investors . talks among state officials , the obama administration , and the banks are currently focusing on reported abuses in servicing their mortgages , forecasted on homes , and evicting their residents . but leading banks are also being charged with illegal behavior – spurring people to borrow , for example , by dumping them on the substantial interest rates that would really go , while misrepresenting the resulting mortgage-backed securities to investors . if such charges are true , bank executives involved could fear that civil lawsuits would uncover evidence that might use criminal prosecution .
“ over rivers and down highways and along the myriad jungle pathways , ” the east pakistan population continues to hemorrhage in india : the endless unorganized stream of refugees carrying few tin kettles , cardboard chettles , cardboard chettles , and ragged clothes piled on their heads around their heads , carries their ill children and their old . they pad along barefooted , with a mud sucking at their heels in wet parts . they are silent , except for a child whimpering now and then , but their faces tell the story . many are sick and covered with sores , and still do not . others have cholera , and ” when they die by a roadside there is no one to burbury them .
charges of currency manipulation and the threat of protectionist measures have intensified . now the global spotlight turns to france and its looming us presidential election . at stake is the sputtering franco-german engine that drove european integration and has retained it at the heart of the post-war multilateral system . le pen ’s victory in early may would spell the end of the eu , leaving german chancellor angela merkel as the ultimate pillar of a crumbling world order . with the uk providing world free trade in the 1840s , having now decided to go it alone , the old atlantic charter allies are putting national sovereignty above global public goods .
new york – having been a bright-eyed eighth grader in my hometown of sri lanka , i could n’t wait for my early sex education classroom . in our early teens , ma ’s classmates and i were as surprised as we were clueless about sex and sexuality . yet , instead of receiving trustworthy answers to pressing questions about our bodies , relationships , and sexuality , we were simply given a book , we were simply told to read a particular chapter , leaving things out on our own . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . millions of young people worldwide have similar experiences , often with serious adverse consequences .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present over many years to come . regardless of how facebook ’s own digital-currency moonshot , libra , fares , it has already provided a wake-up call for firms and policymakers worldwide . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . “ should revolution happen , let us rather than undergo it , ” otto von bismarck once said .
four decades after the “ nixon shock , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” no one disputes that china has benefited immensely from an impoverished and autarkic country that nixon visited is history . global reintegration has turned china into an economic powerhouse . it is the world ’s largest exporter of volume terms , and it is the world of the second-largest economy in the world . as we reflect upon china ’s remarkable progress since 1972 , it is also an opportune time to consider how china continues to fall short in overcoming systemic obstacles to its long-term success . china ’s presence is all but felt globally , from mines in africa to apple shops in the united states .
us president donald trump ’s trade war has rattled confidence ; but that is only a downward shove to an economy already slowing , as it makes the export transition – and investment-led growth to a more sustainable domestic consumption-led growth model – may already be expansionary . how much a chinese economy will slow is an open question ; but , given the intrinsic contradiction between an increasingly centralized party-led political system and the need for a more decentralized consumer-led economic system , long-term growth might just fall quite dramatically . unfortunately , the option of avoiding a shift toward consumer-led growth and continuing to promote both exports and real-estate investment is not very attractive , either . china is already a dominant global exporter , and there is neither market space nor the political tolerance to enable it to sustain its previous pace of export-led expansion . a substantial chinese slowdown may already be expansionary .
the second arab human development report , issued in 2003 , underscores the close association of the arab world ’s educational shortcomings and its lack of democracy . the arab world faces major challenges that can be met only with a more flexible , democratic political system . a well-educated workforce is also vital if young men and women are to acquire the skills they need to perform the types of jobs today ’s globalized and competitive world demands . a democracy requires an informed citizenry able to question its government . alas , instead of progress , what we are seeing is a cycle of inadequate education opportunity that leads to poor economic opportunity .
with the kurds – the majority of them civilians – fleeing turkish bombs , the un security council has typically been silent , while europeans have denounced everything and everybody involved . as foreign-policy disasters move , this is one for the record books . but the seeds for this larger conflagration have been sown long before the now-infamous trump-erdoğan call . the us president has threatened to destroy turkey ’s economy if it does as much as it has enabled him to do so . absent any coherent political process , the conditions have been ripe for a crisis .
and such an approach would cement the idea that the central bank ’s policies are “ the only game in town , ” relish elected government leaders ’ responsibility for the pro-growth policies and the fiscal choices that they control . a less risky and time-tested path for stimulating demand would produce massive increases in debt-financed investment . it is well documented that europe and the united states have under-invested in infrastructure . yet a <UNK> ter-money program – the fanciful idea when milton friedman proposed it in 1969 – would also adopt a radical departure for policymakers , requiring an abundance of caution toward citizen and investor perceptions , confidence , and solid governance structures . from a macroeconomic perspective , infrastructure investment is the “ twofer ” – that is , it reinforces productivity and competitiveness in the long run , and , where there is unutilized capacity , it boosts demand , output , and employment with considerable short-range multiplier effects .
with the government losing $ 4.5 trillion each year by subsidizing the passenger fares , it has little money to spend on upgrading infrastructure , improving safety standards , or speeding up trains . as a result , railway ships have run out of money before plans being run out . and , if all of this were not entirely bad enough , india ’s leadership does not seem to recognize the challenges that the railways present . just 317 of the last 30 years , just 317 of the 676 government-sanctioned projects have been completed , and it is hard to imagine how railways will acquire an estimated $ 30 billion needed to complete the other 359 projects that would have been required to complete the remaining 359 projects . in a country where the rail travelers can not even expect a pure toilet , let alone an on-time coming , prime minister narendra modi has talked of setting a bullet train , one recent in a section of grandiose aspirations .
in fact , there is a deep divide between left-leaning “ blue ” towns and right-leaning “ red ” states , where many are located . and there are many ways that national governments may thwart municipal federalism . cities , for their part , often lack the information and resources needed for development and implementation of effective policies . a handful of organizations have now emerged to reinforce the policy-making capacity of city governments including michael bloomberg ’s government-run innovation program , fuse corps , output for america , social finance , a third of the sector ’s capital partners , and usafacts . under federalism , whether cooperative or uncooperatively , it is often assumed that state and local governments pursue the same goals .
we need to look beyond these figures to determine who really is responsible for fomenting a political climate , where blatant lies and explicit racism and bigotry have entered the mainstream of public discourse . murdoch ’s ’s ’s newspapers and television networks might as well have patented the “ deceitful ” recipe , dog-whistle-blowers , the politics that generated trump ’s rise and the brexit vote . only with the us identifying the sources of the infamous virus now afflicting our democracies may we take practical steps to quarantine them . let ’s start with the “ patient zero ” in this political plague : rupert murdoch . for a decade , this impresario of right-wing political-entertainment complex has coarsened politics in the uk and america – not to mention its native australia – for its profit and political influence .