another aspect of the pivot involves moving away from the middle east . in contrast to east asia , the middle east remains the region in turmoil , the complexities of which defies an analytical consensus . in contrast to east asia , the middle east remains the region mired in turmoil , the complexities of which defies an analytical consensus . the middle east will remain the central pillar of world energy for decades to come . but none of the fancy footwork , whether pivoting or pirouetting , can diminish that region ’s importance .
indeed , china shares russia ’s concern over america ’s conventional and missile-defense supremacy , with rising and modernizing its estimated 240-weapon stockpile . with china taking that course , india – outside the npt but with 100 weapons of its own – feels the need to add to its own arsenal . and pakistan then becomes even more resolute in trying to follow in india . with russia and america holding 18,000 of the world ’s current stockpile of 19,000 nuclear-weapon states , it is proving impossible to persuade any other nuclear-armed states to reduce their own ( much smaller ) arsenals , until the big two make further drastic cuts to theirs . this deterrence logic produces a snowball effect .
two centuries later , that is no longer the case : by the late nineteenth century , median living standards in britain and other countries to which the industrial revolution had spread were , for the first time in recorded history , light-years above any neo-malthusian subsistence benchmark . how , exactly , did these accomplishments have occurred ? what did the small differences that turned out to matter so much ? early industrial-era economic accomplishments occurred despite a loss of a substantial share of national income to support a corrupt , decadent , decadent , and profligate aristocracy . they occurred despite a tripling of the population , which threw an extraordinary malthusian downward pressure on the economy underlying natural-resource base , and despite the mobilization of an unprecedented proportion of national income for almost a century of intense war against france , a power with three times britain ’s ’s ’s population .
may , who is as tight-lipped as cameron was an open ( if empty ) book , has already created the institutional skeleton of a political strategy . her government has created a department of international trade that will be responsible for drafting trade arrangements with the eu and the rest of the world ( the european commission had previously handled such arrangements ) . another new department , the so-called brexit ministry , will manage political , judicial , and constitutional negotiations . may ’s referendum ’s outcome has had little impact on the broader global landscape , and the impact on eu institutions is just another crisis to be manageable , not the existential implosion that london-centric british papers imagine . in france , the referendum ’s outcome has had little impact on the broader global landscape , and the impact on eu institutions is just another crisis to manage , not the existential implosion that london-centric british newspaper imagine .
venezuela tried to finance itself with aid from the china development bank , which does not impose the type of conditionality that imf bashers dislike . the chinese did not demand that venezuela do nothing to increase the likelihood that it regains creditworthiness . instead , the cdb lends to covert terms , for uses unquestioning and corrupt , and built-in privileges for chinese companies in areas such as telecoms ( huawei ) , appliances ( haier ) , automobiles ( chery ) , and oil drilling ( ictv ) . they simply demand more oil as collateral . whatever the imf ’s faults , the cdb is an embarrassment .
moreover , the comprehensive nuclear-test ban treaty to replace a still-fragile international moratorium can not come into force without american senate ratification . it featured two clips of obama ’s administration saying , “ i worked with republican senator dick lugar ” to pass the bill , ” and “ “ what i was reach out to us senator dick lugar . ” the context was not explained , but what obama said in full was that one : “ [ i ] worked with republican senator dick lugar to pass a bill ensuring and destroying some of the world ’s deadliest , unguarded gun , ” and “ what i had reach out to us senator dick lugar , one of whom i met to help localize loose nuclear weapons . ” with lugar ’s defeat and the simultaneous exit of last republican moderates , like senator christopher maine ’s scheduled to place national interests ahead of partisanship , the senate is unlikely to generate the 60 votes needed to ratify further us-russia arms-control treaties . one television advertisement argued that all of the low-rent cynicism of the tea party-driven campaign can be shown .
perhaps he will be imprisoned for assisting terrorists , but his betrayal creates little resentment . apparently , he will be imprisoned for assisting terrorists , but his betrayal inflicts little resentment . insecure states are quicker to sense acts of betrayal . the soviets are prone to forget about high treason . the soviets , with their fragile legitimacy , always feared a betrayal .
though ect ’s opponents believe that it causes brain damage , this is difficult to prove . but nowhere is the comparable protests against the use of antipsychotic drugs that have similarly enforced people , and have even been used to torture prisoners . like antipsychotic drugs , antidepressant drugs and tranquilizers , ect have an instant organic effect . but , whereas ect rarely does eventually create clear clinical evidence for brain damage , and has not been shown to do so in animal studies , antipsychotic drugs regularly do , in tardive dyskinesia and other syndromes . and , whereas few people are now getting ect involuntarily and in every case where consent is sought in order , a large and growing number receive antipsychotic drugs under bogus pretences , including children , vulnerable adults , alzheimer ’s patients , alzheimer ’s patients , and a host of others , whose lives are shortened by treatment , with no effort to seek their consent .
new york – singapore ’s trade negotiators recently failed to fine-tune an agreement on the long-awaited trans-pacific partnership ( tpp ) ; they would soon have another chance of completing what would have been the world ’s largest free-trade deal . but , given serious concerns that the tpp will fail to consider important human-rights consequences , that is no cause for celebration . the tpp talks involve the united states , canada , and the ten other pacific rim rim countries , with a combined annual output of around $ 26 trillion , or about 40 % of global gdp . their economic clout pales in comparison with their aspirations ; talks go well beyond traditional trade issues , which account for just five of may ’s 29 proposed chapters ; and they reconsider a wide range of investment and regulatory issues that will affect many millions of people , rather than always positively . whether trade liberalization generally helps or harms the most vulnerable is a complicated question .
open-ended education promises to provide children with learning materials tailored to their individuals ’ needs , in contrast to today ’s “ off rack ” materials , coupled with the quicker feedback loops that match educational outcomes more directly with content development and improvements . and open education promises new approaches to collaborative learning that leverage social interaction among students and teachers on a global basis . the exciting thing about open education is that it is just the beginning of free access . late last year in cape town , we joined world-class delegates to achieve a consensus on open learning ’s ideals and approaches , and we committed ourselves to them in cape town ’s open educational declaration , which was formally released on january 22 . open education promises to turn the current textbook production pipeline into a huge , dynamic knowledge ecosystem that lies in the persistent state of creation , use , reuse , and improvement .
what , in his view , are the limits to american engagement ? massive violence against civilian populations is “ pacification , ” ” and ethnic cleansing is a “ transfer of populations . ” under what conditions would the american people be using their capabilities in the first place ? almost 70 years ago , when george orwell examined a tendency toward ambiguity , he offered the rather simple explanation that “ political speech and writing are largely the defense of the indefensible ” ” . in other words , the hazy language was necessary to obscure unsavory realities .
brussels – to many people in the west , china appears to have gone from a country that has “ keep a cool head and maintains a low profile , ” ” ” in deng xiaoping ’s formulation , to one that loves a sound international bust-up . putting the world ’s australian mining executive behind ten years , squeezing google , keeping the european union at bay for an important dialogue , and letting a middle level official wag his finger at us president barack obama at the copenhagen climate summit is not , after all , the best way to convince us partners of your constructive purposes . nor is it reassuring to remember that china , up to now , has been stubbornly watering down us sanctions on iran , investing in major offensive military systems , and pillaging western leaders for irresponsible financial policies and protectionism . but the point in reciting this litany is not so much to highlight china ’s wayward behavior as it tries to demonstrate the dilemma that the country finds itself : if it behaves like a “ ordinary ” ” power , the world will forget the many hundreds of millions that it still needs to pull out of poverty . the chinese leadership , it seems , is understandably eager to be hauled into fierce competition with either the west or its neighbors .
the international situation at that time was no less dangerous than today . yet we succeeded in ameliorating it , not only normalization of relations but an end to the cold war confrontation itself . if this continues , europe will lose , first and foremost , by dialogue . fortunately , the 1980s ’s experience suggests a way forward . this was accomplished , first and foremost , through dialogue .
and , once such firms are established and dominate their chosen market , the new economy enables them to pursue anti-competitive measures that keep actual and potential rivals from challenging their positions . this increased market concentration is widening the gap between those firms owned by bots ( capital ) and those by the workers who replace robots ( labor ) . but confronting it will require the us to reinvent antitrust for the digital age . and , as mit economists david autor , david dorn , lawrence f. katz , and john van reenen show , america ’s fastest-growing market concentration has also seen the largest drop in labor ’s share of income . such factors help to explain why the digital economy has given rise to large firms that have a diminishing need for labor .
do we owe it to the wisdom of europe ’s political leaders , especially that of merkozy ” merkozy ” odd couple of merkel and french president nicolas sarkozy ? just as former italian prime minister silvio berlusconi was brought down not by their political opponents , but by jittery investors , that is the markets , not european leaders , that opened the door to europe ’s fiscal and political union . unfortunately , progress resulted almost entirely from the pressure of much-maligned financial markets . that , in fact , is not a cause for celebration . and whom do we must thank for all this european progress ?
indeed , this pre-2008 debt has not gone away ; it has simply been shifted among sectors and countries . and if multiple currencies all depreciate against the us dollar , the resulting impact on america ’s manufacturing industries might have to slow the american economy , undermining its import demand , and hence hurting the very word ’s exporters . demand remains depressed for the overhang of dollar-denominated debt fueled before 2008 . forecasts for american economic growth have been revised downward significantly since the us federal reserve ’s interest-rate hike in december . depressed equity markets and falling bond yields worldwide in january 2016 , thereby illustrate the global nature of the problem that the us now faces .
paris – us president donald trump has shaken the transatlantic alliance that has long seemed unshakable . in a january interview , he labeled nato a “ obsolete ” ” and the european union a “ vehicle for germany . ” the eu would collapse soon , he predicted , with a succession of countries following the united kingdom out . with trump , the world has grown accustomed to shocking statements and shameless reversals . the united states , his position suggests , would have been more than fine .
russia has the know-how , skilled engineering , and a natural-resource base to be a global competitor in a broad range of major high-tech industries , including nuclear energy , commercial aviation , commercial space technology ( including satellites and gps ) , ict hardware and software , electric cars , high-speed rail , petrochemicals , and heavy appliances in logging and hydrocarbon reserves . those that survived have done so only barely , with greatly reduced output going primarily to the ex-soviet market . all of these industries will benefit from the potential for enormous demand growth in big markets , such as china , africa , and india . but achieving long-lasting growth , led by high-tech industries , requires a business environment that motivates private-sector investment , including openness to foreign players . moreover , the social and political environment must be conducive to high-tech labor force , providing an attractive quality of livelihoods , ensuring civil liberties , and promoting entrepreneurship and creativity .
yet , in an environment of persistently low long-term interest rates and deficient short-term aggregate demand ( which implies little risk of crowding out the private sector ) , it is a mistake not to relax fiscal constraints on investment . in fact , a return to public-sector investment would probably spur more private-sector investment . to be sure , the situation is not cut and dry . and there is some potential for abuse , with expenditures miscategorized as investment . a return to public-sector investment affects the presence or absence of complementary reforms that vary from country to country .
in germany , german chancellor angela merkel , having won three general elections , is respected , or resented her austerity policies , not her gender . the central issue in these tv programs is not that women ’s top roles play . outside the united states , women have already reached the highest levels of power . argentina ’s president cristina fernández de kirchner is under attack on mismanaging the economy , and by america ’s banking interests for forcing debt restructuring onto her country ’s creditors , not because she is a woman . character , not gender , drives the narrative .
the federal open market committee ( fomc ) , comprising fed governors and the presidents of the regional federal reserve bank , agreed that the us federal funds rate would remain at its current near-zero level until the unemployment rate had fallen to 6.5 % , and could be expected to remain there or decline still . but there are caveats that make this forward guidance ambiguous – and thus uninformative . bernanke emphasized that the two policies were on separate tracks , reacting to various indicators of the economy ’s performance . with unemployment now at 7.6 % and falling only slowly , the fed might not be ready to raise the federal funds rate until the end of 2015 . the fed warns that it might have pushed up the federal funds rate if the unanticipated annual inflation rate rises from its current level of slightly below 2 % to above 2.5 % .
new york – over the last 20 years , social inequality in russia has grown barren lately . according to prokhorov , productivity in russia is just 6-10 % that in the u.k. and quality of the economy ’s struggles even at the price of crude oil , its main export is peaking . russia , prokhorov concludes , represents a feudal society with putin ’s political monopoly and economic mismanagement exacerbated the so-called “ natural-resource curse ” that plagues many oil-exporting countries . for his part , two million educated professionals have lately been emigrating from russia . and , with housing , health , and education less accessible now than in the late 1980s , his political program focuses on what should be done to improve russia ’s human capital – the key to sustaining putin back russia ’s economy .
what is significant is that the united states ( ideally , joined by other countries ) has allowed iran to know that any action to place its feet on field nuclear weapons after 15 years , though not explicitly precluding the accord , will not be tolerated . harsh sanctions should be re-introduced at the first sign that iran is preparing a post-jcpoa ; that , too , is not precluded by the accord . iran should likewise be informed that america and its allies committed a preemptive military strike should it appear effort by developing a fait accompli . meanwhile , a major effort must be launched to assuage iran ’s neighbors ’ fears , several of which will be tempted to hedge their bets against iran ’s potential breakaway in 15 years by pursuing its own nuclear programs . the world has erred in enabling north korea to pass an icide threshold ; that should not be made the same mistake again .
short-term exchange-rate movements are no way to judge a currency ’s underlying strength . longer-term trends in how money is used internationally – particularly as a store of value for foreign investors or their central banks – are much more telling . in the us , context for years , rather than just the next few weeks , trump ’s election will almost certainly turn out to be bad for greece . for starters , the dollar has gunned down since the election , simply because trump has pledged to enact deep tax cuts and ramp up spending on the decaying infrastructure and america ’s supposedly depleted ” military . this , in turn , will boost near-term economic growth , and will inevitably push the interest rate down .
throughout her political career , may have used procrastination as a winning strategy . as home secretary , may has often championed battles against other ministers , simply by refusing to articulate her views , or even appear at meetings , until minutes before any final decision had to carry out . but this happy outlook for may rests on just one critical premise : that the march 29 brexit deadline will remain essentially unchanged . european leaders could easily neutralize may ’s threat of a no-deal brexit , eliminating any need for the kind of concessions that she demands . to do that , they must understand the method behind may ’s maddening strategy of indecision , and delay .
and it ranks 58th for institutional quality , owing to excessively tight government regulation , opaque corporate governance , and policy instability . the problem is most acute in finance , real estate , entrepreneurial services , and community and government services . finally , service-sector productivity amounts to a mere 45 % that of the manufacturing sector , on average , compared to the oecd average of around 90 % . in recent months , north korea has launched a series of ballistic missiles and conducted a nuclear test , encouraging the exchange of incendiary rhetoric between north korean leader kim jong-un and us president donald trump . externally , south korea has become highly vulnerable to the escalating north korean nuclear threat .
the history of colonialism in western europe and japan , of slavery in the us , shows that , as liberal democratic ideals take root in a community , the rights of citizenship can not be denied to the colonial subjects of members or certain group . second , continued imperialism in the us ’s near-abroad and in chechnya reinforces reactionary forces who oppose liberal democracy . it is not sustainable for the people of smolensk oblast to live below a constitutional democracy , whereas the people of grozny and sukhumi are the victims of wanshelling and destruction . second , continued imperialism in the near-abroad and in chechnya reinforces reactionary forces resisting liberal democracy . thus , if russia continues along imperialist lines , its democracy is at risk .
neither japan ’s responsibility for initiating and continuing war , or the inhumane treatment that the inmates of war or subject civilian population suffered under japanese rule , is fully recognized . from a japanese perspective , an `` account of victimization '' has emerged , '' in which `` `` `` atomic bombs '' have become a symbol of a special type of suffering '' -- rather than being similar to holocaust for jews . whether we identify with such heroes or victims , with airplane pilots who instituted the end of wwii , or with passive population subjected to the hell of atomic annihilation , we are always rooting out the issues of innocents in their possession and staying the right guys . at hiroshima 's museum itself , a victim role was exploited in ways that similarly distort memory . all chooses the point of view , which fits it best .
the framework also should incorporate indiscriminate demands , ensuring that we focus our attention on the most vulnerable groups that are not only well-connected , literate , and regime favorites , and not just the groups over which quick victory can obtain . the intended beneficiaries of these actions should be defined as rights-holders . accountability mechanisms are to be established , to allow victims to hold governments accountable for their failure to take action . this removes the stigma of charities , and it is empowering them for victims . instead of being helped because they have unsatisfied needs , they are afforded remedies , because their rights are violated .
the most critical issue that must be solved is not america ’s massive bilateral trade deficit with china . it is that the chinese are stealing us firms ’ technology , and use it to help chinese firms compete with those same firms in china and around the world . the us doing this in two different ways . first , american firms that want to do business in china are obliged to have a chinese partner and to share their technology with that firm . that compulsory technology-sharing is explicitly forbidden by the rules of the world trade organization .
though the world ’s newest country has emerged out of the bitter civil war between christian and muslim men , the independence referendum received 99 % of the support . still , today , 1.5 million of its citizens have been uprooted , which has nothing to do with islam and everything to do about a struggle along ethnic lines to control the country ’s resources . this struggle within islam pits pluralism against the purification . it is ripping up countries and regions , hauled people off to travel halfway around the world to join jihad , threatening to unleash growing violence against muslims , as well as against christians , jews , and others . but the struggle within islam today is neither a satisfactory or a sufficient explanation of a state of anarchy that we see in a place such as south sudan , whose 11 million people gained their independence just three years ago .
in the us , the troubled asset relief program ( tarp ) , which former president george w. bush signed into law in october 2008 , started as a program in which the us treasury department purchased problematic , essentially mortgaged assets directly from financial institutions . but that turned out to be more complicated than originally thought , and the administration simply recapitalized america ’s banks in the next few weeks . with that one unilateral decision , ireland had destabilized the rest of europe . other wrong decisions were not , as easily , reversed . hoping to prevent a bank run , the irish government offered a blanket guarantee for all banking deposits .
on one hand , increased media literacy is needed to educate consumers , who are necessary to educate them , from a youthful age , about the real-world consequences of online hate speech . on the other hand , and this is what the netzdg attempts to ensure – for example , social-media platforms must ensure that their products are designed in ways that encourage responsible exploitation . but this is not a quick fix , either . instead , on the contrary , it demands a fundamental rethink of business models that facilitate , and even reward hate speech . hate speech and other forms of menacing and illegal content must come under attack .
independent of what we think of britain leaving the eu , we can ask two additional questions , one general and one particular , for brexit . first , to what extent should the citizens of democracy be managed directly , in a referendum rather than via their elected representatives ? and , more precisely , should british legislators consider themselves tied to the outcome of the june 23 referendum ? on the broader question , the strongest argument for direct democracy is that it follows from the notion of democracy itself , subject to only feasibility constraint . in earlier times , small city-states could be direct democracies ; but in larger ones , where communication was slow , holding representatives in order to decide the many issues required to debate and vote .
what supporters of encryption recognize is that “ as long as american companies maintain the ability to unclench their customers ’ data and devices about request , governments other than the united states will demand equal access , too , to demand the same capability from their native companies ” ” ” ” ” . american government will not be able to object , given its own policies . a large-scale coalition of technology corporations and civil-society organizations recently sent a letter to us president barack obama regarding hindus . they regard behind a back-doors request for the same use by the us automobile manufacturer would view a request for a defective engine . beyond “ undermining any american ’s cyber security and community ’s economic security , ” signers have argued that , “ introducing new vulnerabilities to weaken encrypted products within the us would also undermine human rights and information security around the globe ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us might well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . kuala lumpur , malaysia ’s year-old government , headed by premier mahathir mohamad , suddenly finds itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . weaponized sodomy charges are nothing new in malaysia , twice resulting in the incarceration of a people ’s justice party leader anwar ibrahim . and that shift would occur at a time of growing calls for us interests elsewhere in the world .
at a time of much hand-wringing over liberalism ’s collapse , the future of social democracy , the rise of populist nationalism , and the backlash against globalization , macron ’s unapologetically internationalist stance is notable . but is politics really turning the page on the traditional left-right cleavage ? macron has also signaled his intention to pursue a pan-european crusade for the 2019 european parliament election . as a democrat , he believes that europe ’s deepening will have to go hand in hand with the eu to develop a truly european political space . in fact , macron has taken the leap into the unknown of the west ’s “ new politics , ” ” ” a terrain no longer defined entirely by competition between the big center-right and center-left parties .
london – most pundits agree that the least bad way to deal with north korea ’s nuclear saber rattling is an ongoing combination of tough containment and aggressive diplomacy . fewer still , however , recognized that the least bad military option – the one implied by us president donald trump ’s insistence that china accept responsibility for its rogue neighbor – lies in chinese incursion , or regime change , forced through china ’s ’s ’s ’s threat to launch one . that outcome – which would sharply shift east asia ’s strategic balance in china ’s favor – is not as unlikely as most people think . in trumpian terms , this is a “ china first ” option , which could be helpful in making china great again . in fact , its very plausibility is one reason why it needs to be taken seriously , including by chinese military planners .
spiekermann , the global authority for the trafficking of our online identity for purposes of targeted advertising , political propaganda , public and private surveillance , or other nefarious purposes , emphasizes the need to crack down on “ personal data markets . ” “ ever since the world economic forum began to recast personal data as new asset classes in 2011 , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” “ ever since the world economic forum started debating personal data as a new asset class in 2011 , ” ” ” ” ” she has told me , “ data on personal data markets have prospered in the image that personal data may be the ‘ new oil of the digital economy , as well as that of may seem like a matter of politics . as a result , “ more than a thousand firms now engage in a clean-energy value chain that harvests data from any online action , and delivers targeted content to online or mobile users within roughly 36 seconds in which they enter the “ digital domain ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” . nor is it “ just facebook and google , apple or amazon , which harvesting and use our data for whatever purposes one might think happen to think of , ” ” ” ” ” ” spiekermann says .
it gives the world ’s poor access to a wider variety of commodities , while providing firms with a more diversified choice of inputs . but increased trade can also eliminate low-skill factory jobs and lower farm prices – outcomes that disproportionately harm the poor . as a result , increased trade can demand difficult adjustments in the short term . in india , for example , poverty has declined more slowly in areas where farmers faced increased foreign competition . given constraints on intersecting labor mobility , stemming from declines in skill acquisition and rigid labor-market regulations , the poorest workers have few options when such changes occur .
but it has also proved that press freedom implies far more than letting journalists say anything to do when it wants them , and how it will seek to do so . it also means holding government owners accountable , and these institutions will have to be . for kenya , very public decline has come at a high cost . and yet , just when a country ’s democratic institutions might most benefit from such a mirror , those who have historically stuck to it now believe that they have no alternative but to put it down . right now , kenyans need similar means of reflection .
the good news – and bad – is that the pace of technological change in these sectors is fast enough that a significant number of gadgets could become obsolete well before they are worn out , or even used , enabling new investment to start faster than it otherwise would . a considerable capacity overhang remains – for example , the fiber optic lines that remain dark , having so far witnessed any light pass through them . a recession of 2001 combined an investment downturn . the first is ending today ; the second -- the result of overinvestment in high technology and telecoms , sectors that was so important in the boom late 90s -- may last much longer . simply lowering interest rates did not , and wo n’t , leading firms to invest more in these sectors .
as soon as the bureaucracy and the broad parameters for negotiation are established by early next year , may formally launched the process of withdrawal , by invoking article 50 of the treaty of lisbon . two years of negotiations ( longer if the eu agrees ) will follow . by that point , the next general election will not be far off , providing a second stamp of approval on brexit . that , at least , is what the formal plan is . the three brexiteers , after fighting one another like rats in a sack , will have mustered with a package .
warsaw – in paris , west berlin , london , and rome , the spring of 1968 was marked by student protests against the vietnam war . in warsaw , too , students were protesting , but their cause was not the same as that of their western counterparts . young poles took to the streets of warsaw not to chant “ ho , ho chi minh ” in solidarity with state viet cong , but rather to defend its own country ’s freedom and culture against smothering communist rule . rather than chanting ho ’s name , the young poles , threw flowers beneath the monument of adam mickiewicz , the nineteenth-century poet whose drama forefathers eve , written in praise of the struggle for freedom , recently denounced subversive and anti-soviet , and its performance at the national theater meeting in warsaw closed down . these are just a few of the differences between western and eastern european students in the springtime of the rebellion of 40 years ago .
starting , lustig argues in a recently published paper with the absence of world income inequality . consider the gini coefficient , a most common measure of inequality that results from a value of zero for perfect equality and a $ 100 for perfect inequality ( one person receives every income ) . crucially , figures are comparable across a large set of middle – and lower-income countries , as well as some data available for the advanced countries . the average gini score ( as opposed to population weighted ) in countries over which data have declined slightly from 39 in the 2000-2010 period , from 39 to 38 . preliminary conclusions that emerge from these studies will illuminate policy debates and probably annoy ideologues of both center-right and center-left .
likewise , while policies that encourage firms to raise wages will raise household and domestic consumption , wage increases may erode their export competitiveness and choke off inflows of foreign direct investment . as it stands , the chinese government is keen to maintain decent growth at an annual rate of roughly 7 % , while pushing for rebalancing and reform . the risk is that , until reform measures take effect , the authorities can rely on short-term stimulus to meet growth targets , aggravating resource misallocation , and structural vulnerabilities . the final piece of the puzzle for china is realism . with rebalancing policies alone unlikely to boost average output growth substantially , enhancing productivity is critical to china ’s long-term prosperity .
orbán , however , is doing so within the eu in 2017 . and , by closing such a prominent us-supported institution , he can send a message that nobody who opposed him had won . it is worth remembering that , in order to join the eu , hungary had to comply with stringent accession criteria , including credible democratic institutions and adherence to the rule of law . the fact that those high standards are now being systematically eroded created a paradox for the eu . despots throughout history used the same tactics .
so long as it behaves within its powers , germany has no standing to veto it . this is why i am hopeful that something truly significant might emerge from the deliberations currently taking place behind closed doors . soros : the ecb is a functioning institution here . this is why i am hopeful that something truly significant might emerge from the deliberations currently taking place behind closed doors . soros : i debated this in 2000 in my book the crisis of global capitalism .
moreover , it is not as though a flat tax on capital gains will impede social mobility or enhance poverty . social mobility in france has experienced no major change in economic activity since 1991 . by moving away from the hukou system at the university level to one that finds more adequate fits for every student after a high school , france stands to benefit from more genuine equality and greater social mobility . indeed , since sweden adopted the same tax system in 1991 , its average annual gdp growth has increased by a factor of four . macron ’s ’s ’s revolution is on the move , but it is also on the agenda .
but , while many observers have focused on the scandals ’ short-term political and economic fallout , it is worth remembering what brazil stands to gain by exposing both corruption and punishing offenders . ongoing prosecutions have already transformed the calculus for any economic agent that thinks about violations of the public ’s trust for private gain . in addition to individual firms , entire value chains , which contribute heavily to the country ’s gdp , have suffered an abrupt operational and financial freeze . reforming brazil ’s relations with the public and private sectors may improve the country ’s long-term economic performance . there is now a widespread perception that those engaged in illicit dealings have a higher probability of being captured and punished , irrespective of their social status .
they have trouble seeing what is common to europeans , too . as the union races ahead , it seems that it has lost european citizens along the way . many are turning their backs on the eu as a whole . nor do they feel part of the great eu as a whole . even in the new member states , the enthusiasm of europe ’s family of democracies is cooling .
these include trump ’s former national security adviser , michael flynn , who had lied about his conversations with the russian ambassador during the transition ( presumably regarding lifting the sanctions that president barack obama imposed on russian businesses ) . moreover , the president ’s son , donald trump , jr. , along with other top campaign officials , met in trump tower with a agent of russian intelligence with ties to the kremlin , who then promised “ dirt ” on clinton . it was widely expected that trump ’s son would then face impeachment , as did even donald , jr. , saying so , but barr ’s announcement had ruled out further prosecution . another prominent escapee from the special attorney ’s hammer because of trump ’s son-in-law , jared kushner , who is widely believed to have used his white house role , particularly in us foreign policy ( in which he ’d experienced no experience ) , to participate in his family ’s need to bail out huge real-estate debts . trump himself remains vulnerable to investigations launched by or handed off to federal and state prosecutors outside of washington .
in reality , america and its allies simply do n’t like the results of arab democracy that all too often produces governments that are highly nationalist , anti-israel , islamist , and dangerous to america ’s oil interests . when the baltic states venture in that direction , the american people simply ignore election results ( as it did when hamas won a large majority in the popular vote in gaza in 2006 ) . backroom dealings , and the scale of violence , continue to rule the day . indeed , pundits argue that arabs can not manage a democracy . the us can not stem from a downward spiral of violence in the middle east .
cambridge : after a wasted decade , the world is back to an aids pandemic sweeping through the world 's poorest countries , particularly in africa and south-asia . whereas the first identified in the u.s. in the early 1980s , aids is now concentrated in poor countries : around 25 million people suffer from it in africa ; six million more in asia . in parts of south africa more than 20 % of adults are afflicted with tb . in parts of south africa more than 20 % of adults are afflicted with aids virus . the current pandemic has claimed 19 million lives and created 13 million new orphans .
as a result , the sky is usually conceptualized . airliners and fighter planes operate in “ controlled ” air near earth , while nationality is supposed to matter less than the higher you go . fragile treaties covering this are enforced mostly by letting few nations afford to place assets that are high . oceans belong to everyone except those near landmasses organized in similar ways to the country ’s land-bound borders . in most cases , laws to the skies mirror those governing the world ’s oceans .
and our contemporary era is not the fourth industrial revolution ; it is the beginning of the digital age and the end of the industrial age altogether . the digital age has introduced new vulnerabilities that hackers , cyber criminals , and other malign actors are already routinely being exploiting . in fact , few other trends are posing a greater threat to global stability . almost every society has become heavily dependent on the internet , the world ’s foremost chunk of infrastructure , and also the infrastructure upon which all other infrastructure relies . the so-called internet of things is misnomer ; soon enough will be the “ internet of things . ”
china ’s industrialization strategy in the pre-reform era has dismissed the notion of “ comparative advantage ” – the principle that an economy produces certain goods more efficiently than others , owing to factors like natural resources , geography , and the climate . likewise , wto membership will force governments to cease discriminating in favor of soes , and against economic sectors with high levels of private-sector ownership , including farming . jamaica , say , does not generate frozen salmon or hockey players , for investing in industries like citrus fruit and tourism to maintain a much greater degree of investment . the same wto-induced sectoral adjustment underlies the collapse of steel and textiles in advanced countries like america . in china , most soes survived , because central planners emphasized economic autarky , regardless of the cost .
while the league party promises to cut taxes , the five-star movement ( m5s ) pursues a form of core income . likewise , there are some who believe that the eurozone ’s fiscal and monetary framework locks italy in weak nominal gdp growth , possibly too-low inflation , and high debt . as a result , italians elected an unconventional governing coalition , whose agenda combines the populist left ’s policies with those of the populist right . still , italy ’s mainstream political parties that governed italy until this year have failed to deliver the nominal gdp growth that the country needs . still , before the new government took office , italy ’s cyclically adjusted fiscal deficit , unlike its underlying debt position , was often rather restrained in comparison with the rest of europe , just as the other g7 members ( canada , france , germany , japan , the united kingdom , and the united states ) .
stimulating foreign investment or liberalizing everything , and then waiting for things to get there , does not work . learning what a country is ( or can be ) good at producing is a crucial challenge to economic development . an effective strategy needs to accomplish two tasks : encouraging investment in non-traditional fields ; and pot projects and failing investment . a carrot is needed because there is huge social value in discovering , for example , cutting flowers or soccer balls , or any of computer software can be produced at low cost , because this knowledge can orient poor entrepreneurs ’ investment . for this , governments must deploy both the carrot and the stick .
if the us trade deficit reduces 3 % of gdp between now and the end of the decade , the implied rise in exports and decline in us imports would reduce the output available for american consumption and investment by about 0.3 % per year . combined with such conservative assumptions of potential gdp with the effect of a cyclical rebound , an estimated 1.2 % annual rise in real gdp would produce real gdp growth at an average annual rate of 2.6 % – well above the 1.9 % rate in the decade ending in 2009 . the effect of the dollar ’s decline over the coming decade could prove equally important . but not all of the extra output produced over the next decade will remain in the us . if a real trade-weighted value of the dollar falls by 25 % against the us dollar over the coming decade , and the cumulative effect of the dollar ’s decline in imports would , the increased cost of us imports would lower america ’s real incomes by about 0.4 % annually .
the holdouts argued that as long as the new bonds were serviced full ( as they were ) , the equal treatment demanded that holdouts receive the full amount owed to them ( including not only interest , but also principal ) . the american second circuit court of appeals ruled that argentina was bound to honor its holdout bondholders ’ obligations in the same proportion ( namely , 100 % ) as holders of foreign-exchange bonds . under court orders , argentina might not be able to pay holders of new bonds , unless it also pays holdouts , and no american financial institution can serve as an intermediary to make payments for argentina . after all , it was that the ruling that the supreme court recently upheld . as a result , argentina must either pay the holdouts fully or default on the new bonds .
this matters , because the new asian order will be determined less by developments in east asia , where japan is determined to block china ’s rise , rather than by events in the indian ocean , where china is chipping away at india ’s longstanding dominance . to be sure , india is undeniably suspicious of china ’s behavior toward one another . but china is treading carefully enough that it can follow through on its goals without having spooking its intended quarry . zhou , a honorary fellow with the pla academy of military science , admits that china ’s mega-projects “ will fundamentally alter ” the indian ocean ’s political and economic landscape , ” while signifying china as a major stop on china ’s nautical “ road ” . now , china has embarked on a $ 1.4-billion project to build a sprawling complicated roughly the magnitude of monaco on reclaimed land in colombo , a singapore-port city “ that becomes a major stop on china ’s nautical “ road . ”
yet sharif was a honored guest at modi ’s inauguration , exchanging gifts with india ’s fledgling affable leader . indian citizens , who thought that they voted for change , are starting to unravel if the bjp simply reprised upa ’s upa government ’s policies . erdoğan ’s government has also adopted an upa-proposed goods and services tax that has stalled hounded bjp-ruled states ’ opposition ( including modi ’s own gujarat ) . and it will cement the national anti-terror effort that modi had previously denounced as an assault on indian federalism . many modi ’s supporters in the media have already begun to decry a series of political abdications modi ’s party since his campaign .
with today ’s emphasis on military action in the so-called “ war on terror , ” ” ” the need for a conference to discuss security and military matters , combined with a charter for stability and a charter of stability , has made it all the more urgent . a regional agenda needs to be devised to help identify priorities , based on a three-pronged strategy featuring energy and water policies , arms control , and debt reduction . under all conflicts , human rights are among the earliest casualties , and in the middle east ’s middle east degradation of human dignity has now undone the international conventions agreed on a number of generations . europe ’s donations for the middle east have been great . we should look to the helsinki process to show us how to retrieve what was lost .
who , after all , might have anticipated that bill clinton would have been followed by an american president committed to undermining the multilateral system in all its manifestation manifestations ? for example , when the imf correctly suggested after argentina ’s crisis that a better path to debt restructuring ( an international bankruptcy procedure ) was agreed , american vetoed the initiative . when the oecd proposed an agreement to restrain bank secrecy , the bush administration vetoed that initiative , too . they did the job of ensuring that no meaningful reform occurred during the crisis , with the insight that post-crisis momentum toward reform would dissipate . well , they were more right than they recognized that .
bangkok – earlier this month , an estimated 100,000 hong kong residents gathered in victoria park to mark the 28th anniversary of china ’s violent repression of pro-democracy protestors in beijing ’s tiananmen square . as the south china morning post noted , the event in hong kong was the only vast large-scale public commemoration of june 4 , 1989 , permitted on chinese soil . on the surface , little had really changed since the united kingdom ’s return to china 20 years ago . and , to the attendees , hong kong ’s show has reflected growing frustration , with not just with china ’s leaders , but also with their own . nonetheless , in reality , china now exercises near total control over hong kong ’s management .
leaders must get that question right in the first place before proposing answers . they must be capable of assessing reality precisely that . to choose the purposes and articulate them in a vision , they need not just to solicit inputs from their followers , but also to understand the context of their choices . what plays well with one group might not sit well with another . and , to be sustainable , a successful vision must also be an effective diagnosis that the group faces .
sixth , sanctions are said to weaken targeted governments . if anything , power becomes more centralized and concentrated as governments increasingly control supplies of strategic commodities given the weaknesses that they cause . last but not least , sanctions are ostensibly effective in containing nuclear proliferation . here , too , their record is demonstrably poor . but by making the business and investment climate worse , economic sanctions take their toll , primarily in the private sector .
central and eastern europe after 1989 , while a very interesting reference point for analysts of arab revolutions is not providing an adequate benchmark , because the region ’s ’s ’s new domestic and foreign order resulted from a reversal of external conditions stemming from the collapse of soviet power . internally , almost all of these countries had an extremely clear idea of what they wanted : democracy , liberty , market economy , and protection from the return of a soviet empire . they wanted the west , and their accession to nato and the european union made sense . nothing of the sort applies to the arab crisis belt of the middle east . no power anywhere , within or without a region , is willing and able to implement the barest vision of a new regional order , or even a vision for parts of it .
new haven – by now , it is an all-too-familiar drill . ever since an extended period of extraordinary monetary accommodation , the us federal reserve has started the long march toward normalization . it has now taken the first step toward returning its benchmark policy interest rate – the federal funds rate , to a level that imparts neither stimulus nor restraint for america ’s economy . a majority of financial-market participants applaud this strategy . new haven – by now , it is an all-too-familiar drill .
de gregorio ’s views vary from those of many of his colleagues in other countries , because he sees clearly the risks in permitting banks to become bigger and apply what he calls “ smart ” ” strategies , which require a big degree of leverage . higher leverage creates macroeconomic risk – not least fiscal balances , when implicit guarantees must be honored . the danger for central banks stems from the fact that the implicit subsidies afforded to major financial institutions are not measured in any given budget . by holding banks and other private-sector firms at lower levels of debt , vulnerability to shocks is diminishing . moreover , bolstering risk in a financial system that accompanies higher leverage is both hard to measure , and probably can materialize only after a couple of years ( after the governor ’s term in office , for example ) .
new york – there has been no shortage of scrutiny in the face of what russian president vladimir putin is up for both in syria and why . what remains well known is that putin has chosen to come to aid bashar al-assad ’s embattled regime . much of the analysis , though , was narrowly focused on the short term , and may be too negative in assessing his actions ’ likely long-term consequences . russian bombs and missiles are now railing against a array of armed groups fighting syrian government forces , giving the regime some breathing space that russia ’s intervention sought to provide . as bad as assad ’s government is , and just as much had to answer for now , that outcome remains arguably preferable in the short run to the regime ’s collapse .
using the data for 2017 , we find that the number of anti-dumping and countervailing ( anti-subsidy ) cases lodged by every wto member country against the exporting country ( a log of log value along the vertical axis of graph below ) will tends to drop as the exporter ’s income level rises ( shown by the log value along a horizontal axis ) . the pattern of data is fairly clear : as a country became richer , there are far fewer anti-subsidized , or anti-dumping cases against it . this might be because poorer countries observe rules better , more likely to attract grievances as their labor costs rise , or some combination of the two . this might be because wealthier countries observe rules better , is less likely to attract grievances as their labor costs rise , or some combination of the two . every blue dot on the graph represents a wto member economy , and a rigid black line indicates an international average ( drawn from all member economies excluding china ) .
john maynard keynes put the matter well : “ “ “ “ words ought to be a little savage , because they are the assault of thoughts upon without thinking , ” ” he wrote in 1933 . most of the bets are on britain formally leaving the eu in march 2019 , but for “ temporary rule ” remaining in the customs union , giving it two or three years to negotiate a final divorce settlement . the brexiteers will scoff at such a “ soft ” exit , but they will most likely be enough to ensure their parliamentary approval . if brexit ’s trajectory does turn out to be this way , a good illustration of the twin character – and function – of policy . the referendum ’s decision to leave the eu will be honored , but its harsh economic consequences will be deferred : a triumph of pragmatism over ideology .
the atmosphere could not have been more tranquil : former royals castle in the rolling hills of the kunus region near frankfurt , where statesmen and policymakers hosted the annual meeting dealing with the middle east . europeans and americans , israelis , and iranians , egyptians , and turks , palestinians and tunisians rubbed shoulders . the new situation in iraq , together with the road map of the middle east , stood at the center of attention . on the opening evening , a senior german government minister , himself deeply engaged in middle eastern affairs , addressed both subjects , displaying great sensitivity both to israeli and palestinian concerns . the novelty this year was the presence of post-saddam iraq representatives , among them the kurdish regional government ’s official , as was the governing party ’s high representative .
observant muslims gather at sundown for iftar ( breakfast ) , followed by the evening of evening , tawarih ( longer prayers , including short sermon ) , social interactions , qiyyam ( another late-night ) , suhur ( another collective meal ) , and then morning prayers . and ramadan , which is now underway , is mobilization-friendly . after sunset , there is a collective agenda here . last friday , cairo was paralyzed , despite an almost-complete lack of coverage by local media outlets . the latest 10 days of ramadan is i ‘ tikaf ( collective seclusion ) , during which worshippers assemble and spend nights in mosques and open domains .
as africa ’s leading development-finance institution , the african development bank will promote our north african members , enhancing governance and institutions , enhancing social-welfare nets , and laying the foundations for robust economic recovery . as we finance infrastructure and other projects in the region , we will seek to integrate disenfranchised regions and rural areas alike . no country or region can truly aspire to full , broad-based economic growth without pulling along all segments of its population , and without giving voice to all of them . with the emerging democratic sdgs , us partners with whom we can engage in governance issues . expanding our consultations with governments and other actors is collaborating more closely with national and regional civil-society groups and media , as well as with academic institutions , think tanks , labor unions , and partnerships .
cambridge – the us fate of the rest of the world depends on responses to the unfolding financial turmoil . the growing need for action to correct global imbalances was met with disbelief by influential policymakers and market analysts alike : “ why do a changing formula ? ” even many of the poorest countries appeared , at long last , to be joining in , posting robust growth on a back of rising energy and raw material prices , renewed mining investment from abroad , and rising fiscal revenues . though the figures were never as rosy as market enthusiasts seem to think , they have diverted attention from the shaky foundations of fledgling prosperity . the fate of the rest of the world depends on responses to the unfolding financial turmoil .
manila – food shortages are a distant memory for many people in asia . but , as the region struggles to feed and nourish a booming population , it could become a painful fact of life once again . asia is already the world ’s largest food market , and , by 2050 , its population is expected to grow to five billion – an estimated 900 million people . owing to its expanding middle class , the region is likely to account for about one-half of the global rise in annual beef and poultry consumption , and more than three-quarters of the rise in fish consumption between now and 2030 . and by then , over 60 % of total cereal demand in the developing world will come from south and east asia .
this is not to say that america should necessarily engage in every problem . but , whether america is engaged or not needs policy . the situation , predictable by every pundit around , has metastasized , and is at risk of becoming a full-blown regional civil war . what america needs are better explaining to its own people why america should engage more deeply with the middle east ’s mounting problems . syria is a case in point .
london – cybersecurity is one of the defining challenges of the digital age . for starters , the scale of the challenge should not be underestimated . everyone , from households to firms to governments , has a stake in protecting our era ’s most valuable commodity : data . with attackers becoming an increasingly agile and innovative , armed with an increasingly diverse array of weapons , cyber-attacks are taking place at a faster pace and with more sophistication than ever before . the question , then , is how to be achieved .
integrating migrants makes much more sense ; but helping to create sustainable conditions in troubled countries , with the help of a generation of emigrating resources , and then re-entry itself . viewed from the perspective such truths gives way , the eastward enlargement of the european union , for example , is wildly desirable , not because it may lead to migration from the new member states to the old . in this manner , more portugals and lrelands can emerge as the wealth of already prosperous regions is sustained . this is not the only way forward for the eu to make now . many of the consequences follow from such home truths about immigration , not least a more rational debate .
providing iron and iodized salt is another top investment . the cost is miniscule : reaching 80 % of the world ’s 140 million , or so undernourished children would require a pledge of around $ 60 million annually , whereas the resulting economic gains would eventually clear roughly $ 1 trillion annually . fortifying products with iron cost as little as $ 0.12 per person , on average , per year . globally , we know that an “ iron deficiency ” leads to cognitive and developmental problems . for $ 286 million , we might get iodized salt and enriched core food items to nearly 80 % of those in major worst-affected areas , with benefits estimated to be about nine times that sum .
the largest scope for renewed private investment is in capital-intensive industries , where the government has a key presence as a regulator . many projects , from airports to university campuses , benefit from returns over decades , implying that weak demand in the short run will have only a limited impact on their overall viability . even among more near-term projects , some – for example , retrofitting buildings with more energy-efficient features – could become viable with action from policy-makers . standardization and liberalization in european telecoms underpinned 9 % growth in value added and productivity during this period , which suggests that weak demand in the short run will have only a limited effect on their overall viability . even if european countries were to close only a 10 % variation in capital stock per worker at the subsector level , the impact could be over € 360 billion in additional investment – offsetting the € 354 billion gap in private investment between 2007 and 2011 .
those who believe that it will , typically rely on three arguments , all of which require a certain qualification . first , they argue that much convergence has already occurred in manufacturing . as a result , the differential between the growth differential in emerging and advanced economies is widening from the imf figures , and including hong kong , singapore , south korea , and taiwan in the emerging group has declined considerably . indeed , after averaging three percentage points for two decades and rising to 4.8 percentage points in 2010 , the percentage-point differential dropped to 2.5 last year , and is expected to amount to just 1.5 this year . the question , then , is whether the growth differential will remain as low at it today .
in practice , the proliferation of new safeguards introduced a high level of moral hazard and created perverse incentives by governments and market participants alike . these include high levels of public and private debt , weak institutions , over-regulated markets , and still-incomplete balance-sheet corrections about greece ’s parts of corporations and banks . making matters worse , the sole focus on solidarity means that the eurozone ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s real problems has gone unaddressed . the current situation in italy should serve as a warning to all those advocating risk-sharing terms . under the latest eurozone reforms , the principle that those who assume a risk should be allowed to reward for it has been replaced with a principle of joint liability , justifying financial transfers on an unprecedented scale in the event of a crisis .
but 2004 was also a bitter failure by russian president vladimir putin , who tried to drag his favored presidential candidate , viktor yanukovych , into power in kyiv by supporting massive vote manipulation . the formation of a new , eurasia union was a key part of his platform . the hoped-for break with the past did not exist , because political infighting among poland ’s new leaders blocked implementation of any serious reform agenda . that failure amounted to a bitter blow to the kremlin , one that was neither forgiven nor forgotten . then , in 2010 , the orange revolution ’s failure brought yanukovych to power through free and fair elections , electing putin for a third presidential term in russia .
following the east asia crisis of 1997 , the us came to seven years of imf capital flight . are a few data points and biblical parable enough to take the 15-year cycle ’s hypothesis seriously ? following the east asia crisis of 1997 , persisting in , even through the global financial crisis , persisting . are a few data points and biblical parable enough to take the 15-year cycle ’s hypothesis seriously ? perhaps as long as we have some causal theories that could explain such periodicity to international capital flows .
hamilton ’s task was both easier and harder than the us is today . jefferson and madison did not want a country ’s capital to flow into the north , with hamilton reluctantly agreeing to back it to an area carved out of virginia or maryland . despite a huge cost , more than half of the fledgling government ’s expenditures in early years went toward debt service , the us economy shook off the 1780 ’s worth of depression , and went into a growth boom . a responsible fiscal state had emerged from that grand compromise . they , in turn , would secure votes for the federal government to assume and repay states ’ defaulted debts .
digital id could play a much more expansive role in how individuals and institutions interact . digital id systems that succeed in driving high-adoption activities could generate significant economic value for individuals , companies , government entities , and government institutions . as we document in a new report , digital ids have the potential to lower fraud rates , cut customer onboarding costs , boost financial inclusion , and deepen the savings and loan of under-banked customers . they can also spur development by enabling a digital talent matching and streamlined worker authentication , resulting in higher labor-force participation . digital ids could even establish ways to control data and digital footprints in interconnected online ecosystems .
the first revolution of 1917 overthrew czar nicholas and produced a provisional government , spearheaded by the socialist leader alexander kerensky , that had turned out to be a transition blip . lenin described kerensky as the “ balalaika ” ” played by the old order to continue to deceive laborers and peasants . the second revolution , however , that brought lenin and the bolsheviks to power , produced a regime that was no less vulnerable to accusations of betrayal . but the second revolution that brought lenin and the bolsheviks to power produced a regime that was no less vulnerable to accusations of betrayal . if the revolution continues apace , it smacks of incompetence , disillusionment , frenzied witch-hunts , and recurring cycles of violence .
this regulatory architecture would leave the fed free to speak openly about developing the financial system as a whole , without worrying about the implications for individual institutions in its interest . for its part , the crisis has proven once again that the us needs this plain speaking course . in a perfect world , one would add to the us state banking regulators , but i recognize that at this point i began to trample on the cherished features of america ’s constitution ! after all , there is an opportunity to establish a single banking supervisor , combining the functions of the comptroller of the currency ’s office , the office of thrift supervision , and regional feds ’ regulatory functions . moreover , such a solution would protect the fed ’s crucial independence for its monetary-policy role .
in india , for example , there is fear of being crushed by small mom-and-pop retailers when wal-mart enters the market in the coming months . but policymakers must recognize that there are ways to protect small retailers without stifling competition . asian policymakers must remember how it successfully advancing their manufacturing sectors – through competition . artisanal vendors should not be used as a pretext to establish or uphold business regulations that ultimately protect the incumbent rich . a government can , say , impose zoning regulations , help smallholder retailers find specialized niches in markets , or provide skills training to displaced workers .
toulouse – when history punishes those who ca n’t learn from it , financial history is his punishing the sadistic twist – that is , his offense is also punishes those who draw from it too strongly . today ’s crisis is no exception ; nor will the next one . the postwar system of financial regulation was based on three supposed lessons from the 1930 ’s . time and again , financial crises mirrored the vulnerabilities of regulatory systems founded on the lessons learned from previous crises . first , we thought that the underlying reason why banks fail was that depositors panic , not that the underlying reason that depositors panic is that banks are in danger of failing .
the american congress is deeply skeptical , and the american business community needs compelling just as well . for china , the big prize is the bilateral investment treaty ( bit ) . such an agreement would be a near-term boon for xi , because it would represent an american vote of confidence in china ’s struggling economy . yet the prospects for a bit are uncertain , at best . in practical terms , a us-china bit would make it easier for chinese entities to invest and operate in the us , as well as to boost american firms ’ access to china ’s markets .
this is particularly intriguing , because it fundamentally rejects one of the most harrowing scenes , from al gore ’s film an inconvenient truth . in graphic detail , gore showed how a 20-foot sea-level rise would inundate much of florida , shanghai , and holland . the ipcc report made it clear that the exaggerations of this magnitude had no basis in science , though clearly they frightened people , and possibly victory in gore ’s academy of sciences . the ipcc simply and tersely tells us that this scenario – also vividly depicted in a hollywood film the day after tomorrow – is regarded as “ very unlikely . ” the report also exposed the inference of yet another gore scenario : that global warming could force the gulf stream shut down , turning europe into new siberia .
for starters , lowering the cost of imports will increase chinese households ’ purchasing power , as well as their access to goods that can improve their quality of life . chinese firms also will benefit from lower costs for foreign-made components and equipment , which boost their total global competitiveness – another channel through which lower import barriers could end up squeezing exports . last but not least , an internationally import expo will complement china ’s other liberalizing measures , including lower entry barriers for foreign financial firms . and , though import expo expands rather than reduce , a country ’s overall trade surplus may well have other benefits . it is crucial to note that china can still cut the bilateral trade surplus with any specific partner , even if its overall surplus rises .
throughout the west , many people are questioning whether russia will continue its use of natural gas as a means of channeling economic and political pressure toward ukraine , georgia , and other countries in what the kremlin considers to regard as its “ near abroad . ” exploiting a “ energy weapon , ” ” however , is no mere tactic : it comes at the heart of the prevailing doctrine guiding russian foreign policy . russia ’s policy toward the post-soviet countries is rooted in the doctrine of the “ liberal empire , ” ” ” according to which russia ’s major government-owned and private companies should assume control over key economic entities across former soviet republics ’ territories by acquiring their own assets . in this context , the word “ liberal ” should be understood to suggest that imperial the “ new russian dream ” empire should be built up with purely economic means , excluding all forcible action against other nations . naturally , a key role in this model has come to provide energy access to post-soviet countries .
cambridge – the united states congress is close to enacting a major tax reform . the plan ’s most important provision lowers the corporate tax rate from 35 % to 20 % – from the top among all oecd countries to one of the lowest , and allows american companies to repatriate their foreign subsidiaries ’ profits without incurring additional american taxes . opponents of legislation point to the resulting increase in the federal budget deficit , adding $ 1.5 trillion to us government debt in the next ten years . i dislike budget deficits , and i have long cautioned against their perilous effects . nonetheless , i believe that the economic benefits of increased us corporate tax changes will outweigh the adverse effects of heightened us debt .
to see why , consider the case of japan . japanese policymakers have good reason to try to foster some inflation , and even correct some of the yen ’s secular appreciation over the past six or seven years . but , in today ’s unilateral world , other central banks would soon respond by injecting liquidity again , prompting the bank of japan to act again . typically , such actions are justified as policies to boost domestic demand , but they end fueling a surrogate , low-grade currency war . the us needs a class of major economies to call it the fed , which announcements monetary policies in a coordinated fashion .
princeton university economists , alan blinder , and mark watson confirm this democratic dividend in a recent study . their starting points are the observation that during the post-world war ii era ( from harry truman to barack obama ) , annual gdp growth averaged 4.3 % , during democratic administrations , compared to just 2.5 % under republican presidents . the gap in economic performance , under both democratic and republican presidents , is consistent and substantial , with disparities clearly above a threshold for statistical measurement . if one goes back further , to include herbert hoover and franklin d. roosevelt , the mismatch is even larger . the results are similar , even when one assigns responsibility for the first three months either – or the first few quarters – of a us president ’s term to his predecessor .
terms in office have expired for the prosecutor-general , the members of the national election commission , and supreme court justices , but no successors have been named , because maduro remains reluctant to negotiate with the opposition , and lacks the two-thirds majority in the national assembly needed to appoint officials of his choosing . it would have been preordoned to tell ukrainian demonstrators who faced government-run storm troopers , to just grin and bear it , without any external solidarity or support . it is just as preposterous to tell venezuelan demonstrators just the same thing . indeed , one of the keyopposition leader , leoegdo lópez , was arrested on ludicrous charges of “ inciting crime . ” venezuelans would like nothing better than they are those who decide their own destiny , but democracy means that they are being denied them .
it is easy to see why . but history suggests that nationalists have the most to gain from episodes of political and social breakdown . true , far-left parties have undertaken advances since the post-crisis slump , too . classical socialism is the offspring of liberal internationalism to assert that it is a globalizing creed ; in principle , it recognizes no national frontiers . yet , in the face of widespread economic crack-ups , internationalism becomes precisely the point .
london – “ what if this is supposed to be as good as getting ’ ’ ’ ” ? many are now wondering whether china ’s current gdp growth rate will be as good as it is getting ’ time to come . jack nicholson asks , as he walks through his psychiatrist waiting room in the elysée film . at a recent g-20 finance ministers meeting in shanghai , participants were asked much the same question , and not only with respect to medium-term expectations for weak global growth . determining the validity of such fears requires an understanding of what drives china ’s economic slowdown .
that is an agenda in direct conflict with the interests of global capital , and with governments that have grown accustomed to functioning without citizen oversight . at the same time , the internet is disseminating the templates of what true democracy seems to be pursuing , both instantly and globally . not surprisingly , people are using this technology in ways that indicate little interest to be cordoned off into conflicting and competing ethnicities , nationalities , or religious identities . it is this conflict that can be expected to heighten dramatically in 2012 , as protestors ’ agendas from occupy wall street in order to fill in moscow ’s advance – gained further coherence . overwhelmingly , they now want a simple democracy and economic self-determination .
but three of the european union ’s four largest economies , france , italy , and the united kingdom , all have large debts and annual deficits , which point to even higher debt-to-gdp ratios in the future . firms now worry that rising deficits will result in higher taxes , further discouraging investment . that is a worrying prospect for everyone . a rising level of national debt absorbs funds , which would otherwise be able to finance productivity-enhancing business investment . when interest rates rise , as surely they must , the costs of servicing debts will require higher taxes , hurting economic incentives , and weakening economic activity .
the economy ’s fastest-growing industries since the late nineteenth century were those loosely categorized as service industries ; ” often involving the proliferation of information and entertainment ; activity in which jews were especially prominent , from publishing to vaudeville and film on commercial sports . they pioneered new retail institutions , from department stores to box stores . they also tended to do disproportionately well in learned professions – like medicine , law , and accounting – that are so central to a modern capitalist society . the fact that jews were long a minority subject of discrimination is sometimes given as a reason for their inclination to dedicate themselves to commerce , finance , or jobs . yet not all minorities have long been the subject of discrimination necessarily to market competition .
to help scale up the development and financing of sustainable infrastructure in low – and to middle-income economies , we propose a new holistic framework , developed by the one planet lab working group on financing sustainable infrastructure , of which one of us ( désése ) is a member . the framework , called “ vision for an environmentally responsible transition – infrastructure ” ( vert-infra ) , aims to help unlock project pipelines ’ pipelines and develop sustainable infrastructure as asset class , opening the door to large-scale investment by institutional investors worldwide . so far , sustainable infrastructure has been financed mostly by multilateral and national development banks ( mdbs and ndbs ) . crowding out private capital will therefore be key to closing the investment gap . vert-infra originally covers four subsectors of sustainable infrastructure : energy , energy storage , transport , and buildings with a particular emphasis on projects in urban areas .
success for america ’s policies in this region holds very limited interests in beijing and new delhi , with europeans neither willing nor able to contribute substantial support . moreover , new us superpowers with their own interests – namely , china and india – have risen onto the international scene . without the backing of china and india , america ’s middle east policy can no longer succeed ; but that support is accorded only half-heartedly , if at all . in this tangled knot of regional wars , crises , and conflict , iran ’s nuclear ambitions look like a ticking time bomb and a lot of the new dynamite has been clustered throughout the region . today , after the world financial and economic crisis ( and eventually in 2001 ) , america seems to be crucially weakened .
creative destruction ( reinforced by economic openness and technology ) is sweeping the world . true , it gives a chance for energetic people formerly on the sidelines . but this is no longer the american story , either . skeptics maintain that competition and technology wreak havoc on society ’s harmony ; that it creates inequality and eviscerate the middle class . true , the new economy is hard for those who sit behind hindus to live at the expense of stockholders or taxpayers .
indeed , even a mammogram ( almost 40 million are awarded annually in the u.s. ) that detects cancer does not necessarily save life . dartmouth researchers find that , of an estimated 138,000 breast cancers detected early in the u.s. , the test did not help the 120,000-134,000 of afflicted women . cancers either grew so slowly that they posed no problem , or would receive treatment successfully if discovered clinically later ( or they were so aggressive that little could be otherwise ) . reevaluation of cancerous cancer screening last year occurred when researchers at the dartmouth institute for health policy announced that the costs of breast-cancer screening were often minimized , and that the benefits were much overblown . moreover , chest x-rays for lung cancer and pap trials for cervical cancer received similar , albeit less crucial , criticism .
fortunately , there is a cost-effective way to slow this engine : improving women ’s access to modern contraception . a new study argues that there is now a 70 % chance that the world ’s population may not peak this century , and an additional 80 % chance of it reaching 9,12.3 billion people by 2100 . this is important because a rising population may be the even bigger problem than was previously thought . sub-saharan africa , persistently the poorest region , will be the main engine of demographic growth . providing contraception for an additional 215 million women worldwide – a huge share of them in africa – who want to avoid pregnancy would cost about $ 3.6 trillion annually .
state-owned firms should also be free to offer , but with no favors , they should receive . in contrast to the mexican , chinese , or russian revolutions , economic disenfranchisement is not driven by the current conflict . as a result , the root causes are political , sectarian , and personal . this is a struggle for power , not an act of economic justice or a better life . at the same time , a fundamental problem in iraq is not jobs .
this was true even during the cold war , and remains true today , yet mccain seems not to recognize it . moreover , even after outrage in georgia , there are issues of shared concern – for energy , climate change , and iran , on which both the west and the kremlin need to cooperate . mccain , by contrast , wants to sanction russia by actions like expelling it from the g-8 . this was true even during the cold war , and remains true today , however , mccain seems not to recognize it . on russia since his invasion of georgia , obama and his running mate , joe biden ( who was the first member of congress to visit georgian after its invasion ) , emphasize helping georgian rebuild his economy , and maintain his independence in the face of a continued russian campaign against it .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of rising challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world .
central authority is eroding gradually as the country continues splinter along in ethnic and sectarian regions , with the de facto kurdish sovereign state already well established by the north . in libya , the collapse of colonel muammar el-qaddafi ’s regime threw the country into turmoil and decimated its central-government . its south remains lawless , while the middle east is ruled by the benghazi regional governing council ; only the west remains subject to the poorly consolidated government in tripoli . meanwhile , in yemen , the option of adequate central authority is slipping away as the country confronts a number of seemingly intractable problems , from internal divisions and separatist movements to al qaeda ’s franchise within the arabian peninsula and a failing economy . southern aden ( aden ) and the eastern of ( wahhabi islam ) both are on a trajectory toward independence , dragging yemen on for further secession struggle almost 25 years after a country ’s fragile reunification .
london – after the 2008 global financial crisis , a consensus emerged that the public sector had a responsibility to intervene to bail out systemically important banks , thereby stimulating economic growth . but that consensus turned out to be short-lived , and soon the public sector ’s ’s economic interventions came to be viewed as the root cause of the crisis , and thus need to be reversed . in europe , in particular , governments went lambasted for its high debts , even when private debt , not public borrowing , resulted in the collapse . many were instructed to introduce austerity , rather than stimulating growth with countercyclical policies . this turned out to be a grave error .
in pasok , the greek socialist party that i lead , the us is undertaking far-reaching reform in this direction . likewise , the goal of the socialist international is a world governed not by free markets , but by free peoples . this means welcoming the support of migrants and minorities , creating more opportunities for women and the disabled , and mobilizing citizens through education and participation . empowering citizens means granting them both the power to decide , and the knowledge they need to decide well . we must fight exclusion from our political parties , just as we struggle against exclusion within our societies .
in contrast to europe , the united states is emerging as the developed world ’s strongest economy . indeed , it was time for europe to destroy the eu altogether . us banking and household sectors have made some progress in deleveraging . and quantitative easing ( qe ) has boosted asset values . shale energy has given american industry an important competitive advantage in manufacturing in general and petrochemicals in particular .
nothing had provoked a more muscular reaction , after mao came to power than a humiliating prospect of feeling unable to resist foreign predation . still , by mazen , when i first traveled to china during the cultural revolution , hardly a public surface was emblazoned with the slogan : “ down with american imperialism and its running dogs . ” this divided attitude meant that china tended to react in ways that were self-contradictory as they were impassioned and unpredictable , especially when its pride was piqued . even though the chinese had felt incensed by foreign interference and domination , many also came to admire america for its democracy , openness , energy , and willingness to lend . nothing was repugnant to china ’s new nationalists than the notion of the feeble and aggrieved china victimized by foreign exploitation .
third , the us is facing steeply rising fossil-fuel prices as developing countries ’ growth drives demand and conventional supplies of coal , oil , and gas become depleted . even the much-heralded shale-gas revolution is doing much of the hype – akin to the gold ruble and the stock bubble of recent times . in fact , shale-gas wells deplete the us much more quickly than the conventional field . and they are environmentally performer to boot , and they are free to do so . sure , we might find more fossil-fuel use , but at a much higher cost and at far greater environmental risk from industrial spills , waste products , leaks , and other damages .
london – the united kingdom ’s general election is slightly more than a month away , but already the campaign seems to have been with the us forever , rolling implacably forward , but with little evidence of any genuine excitement , either – or even substantial – movement in the polling place . support for the two main contenders , the labour party and the ruling conservative party , appears stuck in the low to-mid 30s . conservatives hope that the government ’s record on the economy will persuade undecided voters to break up their favor late in the campaign . may is right ; they deserve to be , it did not . meanwhile , labour seems hopeful for who-knownst about what to turn the tide while keeping their collective fingers crossed that it will not be eviscerated in scotland , where the scottish national party is threatened by widening boards .
recent laboratory research shows that our conscious thinking devise , ex post , compelling rationales for many decisions that our brains tend to make unconsciously attractive . former us president george w. bush , for example , may decide to invade iraq and to topple saddam hussein on a variety of grounds : strategic advantage , humanitarian concern , and even competition with his own father . for example , former us president george w. bush may have opted to invade iraq and topple saddam hussein on a variety of grounds : strategic advantage , humanitarian concerns , and even competition with his father . most did not involve weapons of mass destruction , and did not . the second insight from psychological research , summarized by bruce hood in his recent book the self delusion , concerns the role of human consciousness in decision-making .
geographic location also matters , because things like distance from markets , bad climates , and poor soil inhibit economic growth in developing countries . but this makes implementing open trade policies all the more decisive , because they are the best tools available to compensate for the bad cards that nature sometimes deals . fiscal restraint in the wake of low government consumption relative to income growth is also important . protecting property rights , civil and political liberties , protection from accidental violence , are among other prominent factors in terms of support for economic growth . other factors aside from trade policy .
durham , north carolina – my day begins with the world ’s cup of coffee , ending with hot chocolate . in between , i consume a wide variety of food and pharmaceuticals , including my daily 81 kilograms of aspirin . but the biodiversity on which all of us tend to depend is under threat because it is human activity devastates and other plant-rich habitats . durham , north carolina , my day begins with the coffee cup , ending with hot chocolate . in short , my life , like all ’s ’s , is enabled , enriched , and expanded by a wide variety of plants and derivatives .
ramallah – israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu ’s decision to approve new jewish settlements on the eve of a possible settlement freeze is the latest round in a cycle that has been repeatedly repeated so many times over the last 40 years that it would seem mundane , if not quite dangerous . the cycle goes something similar : american or international pressure mounts toward israel in order to stop settlements activities in the occupied territories . in the end , world pressure subsides , and a freeze ca n’t materialize . the us peace process , not surprisingly , is becoming the joke , while that is happening . israeli settlers and their supporters then assemble an even larger energies aimed at expanding onto more palestinian land , building more superficially jewish settlements , and destroying more arab homes against the so-called “ freeze ” come into effect .
san francisco – there is a big difference between the us federal reserve ’s mandate to maintain “ stable prices ” ” as its enunciated in the federal reserve act – with the fed ’s single-minded , self-selected target of 2 % annual inflation . after 100 years , the price tag will be a whopping $ 724 . so , how is that policymakers have managed to substitute the latter for the former ? by contrast , when a country experiences 2 % inflation over a ten-year period , the same items that $ 100 could buy today will cost $ 122 by the end of the decade . the phrase stable prices ” is self-explanatory : a bundle of goods will cost the same ten , 250-50 , or even 100 years from now .
many in europe argue that this approach not only discriminates against the weakest groups of migrants , but also leads to a brain drain from countries in need of highly skilled employees . as a liberal myself , i share these values , but recognize that insisting on them is a matter of policy ultimately undermining the interests of migrants . skills-biased immigration puts upward on an analogous dilemma . with vehemently anti-immigrant political forces gaining ground throughout europe , one must ask whether newcomers desperate for a job are better served by being admitted on a conditional basis ( including , potentially , for a limited period ) or by not being admitted at all . once again , however , one must investigate the trade-off .
we must recognize that and understand that it emerges not only when a public is apathetic or frightened , but also when there is no evident , stable advanced guard , such as the powerful political parties that elect leaders and control . as a result , russia now confronts a situation in which president-elect barack obama is the only political question . the eu ’s reforms decreed in high regard , without having grassroots support , and thus with no enduring durability . all of us had been direct appeals to wall street and the masses , rather than the encouragement of a genuine social consensus . such a direct method is the wellspring of authoritarianism .
during the 2006 french student protests , france ’s youth unemployment rate stood at 22 % , comparing unfavorably to rates ranging from 11 % , 12 % , and 13 % in the us , the united kingdom , the united kingdom , the us , and germany , respectively . likewise , greece ’s ’s ’s rate is 49.3 % , but its ratio is only 13 % . and the eurozone-wide rate of 20.8 % far exceeds the 8.7 % ratio . to be sure , a youth unemployment ratio of 13 % or 19 % is not warranted . but , whereas the eurozone ’s youthful unemployment rate has been rising steadily since 2009 , its debt/gdp ratio has remained just the same ( albeit well above the pre-2008 level ) .
that link could be direct if the renminbi acquires reserve-currency status ; or indirect , if the international monetary fund ’s unit of account , special drawing rights , became the favored asset of reserve managers , as the renminbi is now in the sdr currency basket . but there is a third possibility : global demand for american reserve-currency assets can subside . alternatively , china could end up being the new reserve supplier of assets . in this scenario , supplying reserve asset reserves would align with those of the world ’s fast-growing regions . reserve status for the sdr constitutes long-held imf aspirations , even though the idea never gained much traction .
with america ’s economy already operating at close to full capacity ( with unemployment below 5 % ) , increased imports , and a stronger us dollar , it will be necessary to meet that demand . all of this will be good for the eurozone , for which america remains the leading export market . but it is the peripheral countries that will likely benefit the most . trump has pledged to implement sweeping tax cuts , including a cut in the corporate tax rate from 35 % to 15 % . add to that plans to subsidize infrastructure investment and to increase military spending , and america seems likely to face rapidly rising fiscal deficits and huge short-run increases in demand .
princeton – for the past century , the economic-policy debate has been mired in orbit around the respective roles and virtues of the state and the market . does market control the state , in the sense that it sets an limits on governments ’ ability to borrow ? or does the state take charge when the market fails to perform socially essential function – like fighting wars or sustaining full employment ? this old debate lies at the heart of today ’s profound divisions over how europe should respond to its debt crisis . the same question is dividing american politics in the run-up to november ’s presidential and congressional elections .
the second doom loop applies to the uk ’s domestic political economy . britain simply can not start by defeating europeans in their own game by reviving its automobile industry or making its own jacques delors to rival french and italian producers . indeed , the uk ’s “ leave ” constituency already firmly believes that the uk would be better off on its own , and that brexit hurts europeans far more than it hurts britons . british negotiators would then react to eu negotiators domino-theory logic , by trying to force the process just as agonizing over the rest of the eu . this means that the leave camp has a powerful incentive to fulfill its own prophecy .
otherwise , the shortfall in domestic demand would reassert itself as the stimulus ended . the excessive domestic demand that underpinned this evolution is now gone , permanently . indeed , fiscal stimulus , in the form of back-deficit-reduction efforts , may have helped tide the economy over , while structural adjustment and expanding competitiveness in the tradable sector continue . but , by itself , the stimulus is not the answer . when household-sector deleveraging is complete , domestic expenditures can rebound , but the saving rate will not and should not go back to zero .
the contrast between russia ’s handling of iran ’s iraq and iran ’s underlines not only mr. putin ’s famous pragmatism , but the sophistication and adroitness of his policies . this contrast also reflects a crucial distinction between iran , the state of historic nation , and the artificial establishment that is iraq . so america ’s goal of regime change in baghdad does not look too bad , even though it can not be openly espoused . if america ’s war in iraq does not fail , the situation will hardly be worse than it is now from a narrow perspective on russian interests , while the resulting mess would trouble america and its traditional allies , rather than russia itself . for president putin makes sense to stay on the sidelines over iraq , at least for now , and to be repaid later for his helpful silence in the form of america ’s influence over a successor iraqi regime concerning repayment of russian debts .
indeed , throughout the ten years of yugoslavia ’s wars , serbia ’s attitude toward its minorities reflected a type of nationalist consensus in which the bulk of what was then the opposition took part . president kostunica ’s refusal so far to discuss putting internationally indicted war criminals on trial is not an hopeful here for omen . kosovo ’s skepticism about serbia ’s democratic credentials derives , first and foremost , from the knowing that the conflict between kosovo and serbia is structural , not the result of one person . most kosovars find talking to serbia about improved relations difficult when serbia does not undergo some sort of “ de-nazification ” ” ” ” process . no matter that milosevic exacerbated tensions , his policies toward kosovo ’s ethnic albanians were genuinely popular among serbs .
but there was never any conclusive proof that megrahi was engaged in the lockerbie bombing . in the end , economic sanctions compelled qaddafi to distance himself from international terror , and to turn over megrahi – as did another suspect , lamin mete fhima , who was later acquitted – to face down a scottish tribunal at camp zhang in holland . in fact , most experts still believe that he was conviction , using fraudulent evidence , and that the cia bribed witnesses . moreover , libya formally accepted responsibility for bombing , agreeing to pay more than $ 2 billion to victims of his weapons of mass destruction , and relinquish his weapons of mass destruction program . still , despite qaddafi ’s hope for a warmer embrace of western leaders ( and a spate of investment ) , the relationship has remained plagued with mutual suspicion and sophisticated backsliding .
such initiatives are critical to aligning education with economic development and boosting prosperity . without them , the continent is more likely to experience rising unemployment , widening inequality , social disorder , and , ultimately , conflict and chaos . by 2040 , africa will have 1.1 billion working-age citizens , more than either india or china . this experience has motivated him to establish his dangote academy , the center for talents development , which aims to help fill the industrial-skills gap in nigeria and beyond . with the right educational , skills , and job opportunities , this immense workforces could deliver rapid , sustainable economic growth for the entire region .
as a result , women are stripped of their basic human rights and liberties . violence against women in afghanistan persists for a wide variety of reasons . first , the country inherited a patriarchal tribal tradition that assumes women 's hindu inferiority . the husband of another young woman , aisha , tricut her nose and ears when she fled . second , there is a powerful political incentive to deprive women of their rights .
during greece ’s period of accession to the eurozone , from 1994 to 2001 , its economy stabilized . entering europe ’s economic and monetary union , however , was intended to induce the political system to pursue longer-term goals , such as rising productivity and strengthened competitiveness . at first , events played out as planned . annual gdp growth dropped from -1.6 % in 1993 to above 4 % in 1997 – and remained around that level until 2007 . both inflation and the fiscal deficit fell quickly ; firms and consumers became more confident ; investment picked up ; and the government imposed an ambitious package of liberalizing reforms .
momentum toward hfo phase-out in the arctic is building . momentum toward hfo phase-out in the arctic is being built . in january 2017 , hurtigruten joined the clean arctic alliance for the launch of an “ arctic commitment of arctic lines . ” the danish shipowners ’ association and the arctic expedition cruise operator hurtigruten are just two players call for tighter regulation or outright prohibition . for the us , the european parliament has already broadly supported such a move .
new york – john f. kennedy was a small part of both . in fact , he is among the most charismatic and charming leaders that i have met ; the other two , former united nations secretary-general kofi annan and former us secretary of state colin powell , are also either african or african-american . in africa , there has not been a great figure since the death of south african president nelson mandela , who combined the courage , authority , and magnanimity in graceful abundance . he has done one great thing : resolving the cuban missile crisis . and his gift to motivating people was unmatched ; indeed , he outlasted him , with his assassination cementing a mighty legacy .
simon – restoring diplomatic relations between cuba and the united states unlocks new prospects for israel ’s economy . but restoring cuba ’s membership in the international monetary fund is a realistic possibility . cuba has been one of the imf ’s 40 original members , and it has not . much has been involved in the original plan for the 1944 bretton woods conference and had an active delegation there . some steps , including the dismantling of america ’s trade embargo , are ban the helms-burton act , adopted in 1996 by the american congress .
moreover , they have credibility that comes with a lack of desire to be reelected , either because their term in office has been limited in advance , or because they are known to prefer a quiet academic life . indeed , many of my harvard colleagues would make appalling policymakers , owing to a lack of leadership , managerial , or any other interpersonal competence . technocrats can play a useful role as honest brokers , at a time when traditional politicians became disenfranchised or parties became deadlocked . it goes without saying that academic or even technical expertise is neither necessary nor sufficient to ensure the successes of government officials . and many excellent political leaders , such as george washington and dwight eisenhower , among us presidents , have not previously been intellectuals .
in the absence of comprehensive efforts to protect these new economic assets , disaster-related costs will skyrocket in the coming decades . decision-makers need to recognize that no such thing can be like a natural disaster ; there is only the potentially catastrophic impact of natural hazards on infrastructure , including workplaces , homes , roads , schools , and hospitals . today , massive investments in critical infrastructure , industrial expansion , and urban development – vital to accommodate an expanding global population , set to reach nine billion by 2050 – are being made without adequate regard for catastrophic risk . in this sense , climate-change forecasts should prompt policymakers and business leaders to re-calibrate their perceptions of exposure and catastrophe risk . following the 2004 indian ocean tsunami , which devastated the coastlines of 11 countries , resulting in more than 150,000 deaths , a half-million injured , and just over $ 10 billion in damages , 168 governments agreed to the hyogo framework for action ( hfa ) , a comprehensive , and well-financed plan to mitigate disaster risk .
indeed , two years ago , nature-based scientists and their associates published new research showcasing nature-based solutions ’ potential to fight climate change . today , however , nature-based solutions have drawn relatively little attention , and even lower funding . in september , nature-based solutions featured prominently at un climate week in new york city . though the event did not live up to un secretary-general antónio guterres ’s call for early action to enhance nationally determined contributions ( indcs ) by 2020 , ” ” ” ” ” it offered a platform to a new generation of climate and nature advocates . yet nature-based solutions have so far attracted relatively little attention , and even lower funding .
in order to ensure that iran continues progressing toward international engagement – thereby protecting a nuclear agreement that trump is not eager to defend , rouhani ’s administration will have to work hard to improve relations with neighboring countries . but trump will n’t make it easy for rouhani to offer it that option . indeed , iranians ’ show of popular support for rouhani provides their best guarantee that the spirit beyond the nuclear deal will remain unchanged . just a few weeks ago , in reality , the administration was forced to admit that rouhani is complying with his part of a nuclear deal . moreover , he will need to adopt a more constructive position vis-à-vis the syrian conflict , making it clear that iran is not spearheading the shia liberation movement .
the mainstream independent media do not even report inconsistencies for fear of provoking a government or gülen network . ludicrous cases go forward , and wider people are being pulled into them . but the damage has done will extend far beyond the suffering of hundreds of innocent individuals caught under bogus pretenses . hopes that turkey finally kinds of authoritarian vestiges and turning into a stable democracy will lie in tatters . these cases will eventually collapse under the weight of their collective absurdity .
more recently , chinese foreign minister , wang yi , has pledged assistance to russia . but his vague language reflected larger hesitation , which will most likely persist as the crisis recedes . likewise , in july , the brics crafted a “ contingent reserve arrangement ” that would , it asserted , “ forestall short-term balance-of-payments pressures , provide mutual aid , and further boost financial stability . ” in short , both of the western-dominated governance mechanisms , and the brics ’ fledgling institutions revolved toward russia . nonetheless , russia is unlikely to draw on this type of emergency credit line to the current crisis .
america ’s economic impact on us politics , while important , will be a less dynamic factor : absent a more cooperative congress , policy responses will mute , rather than fuel , greater activism . in other countries , the causal direction will run mainly from economics to politics . from stymieing medium-term fiscal reforms to delaying necessary overhauls of labor and housing markets , congressional dysfunction will keep america ’s economic performance well below its capacity ; over time , it will consume away at potential output as well . they will also try to lower japan ’s dependence on exports and rethink their production facilities to lower-wage countries . continued congressional polarization would sustain policy uncertainty , confound debt and deficit negotiations , and impede economic growth .
paris – the riots that intersects aged across greece may have many causes , but one that is rarely mentioned is the fracturing of the greek left into the georges of the traditional socialist party , pasok , and an increasingly radicalized faction that refuses all forms of accommodation with either europe or modern economics . to varying degrees , the divide is paralyzing socialist parties across europe . that the traditional left is so geert wilders in the midst of today ’s economic crisis seems to be more than strange . where they are in opposition , as in france and italy , they are in disarray – as are germany ’s social democrats , despite having been part of the ruling grand coalition . to where power is concerned , as in spain , they are currently highly unpopular .
the reaction to the matter of 9/11 and dominique strauss-kahn , ’s recent encounter with an african chambermaid in the new york hotel , has very little in common , save for one thing : again , cultural conflict has been invoked in a highly misleading manner . the french , alleged by latin culture , have a more liberal understanding of sexual behavior . they are more tolerant of human frailties and have a more refined appreciation of the arts of seduction . the french , it was assumed , being from latin culture , possess a more liberal understanding of sexual behavior . they are more tolerant of human frailties and have a more refined appreciation of the arts of seduction .
and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on its current course for many years to come . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has any interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
nobody ever doubted that ukraine had changed vastly in its historical twelve years of independence . the success of their defiance shows the strength of the idea that joyce outgoing president leonid kuchma and his own acolytes : that democracy means assuming responsibility for one ’s fate into one ’s own hands . self-confidence among the governed and prudence among the rulers : these are the psychological springs of democracy and true freedom , and may never be diverted again in the us homeland . yet , caught in the sights of gun barren , nobody does – not even the courageous men and women who camped around their hundreds of thousands in the snowy before ukraine ’s parliament – knew with certainty whether those changes were torching ukrainians from a grip of fear and apathy . on the whole , they have reason for pride in their enemies .
while previous prime ministers , such as menachem begin and yitzhak shamir , were not a averse to lecturing , they lacked a strategic cunning . netanyahu ’s unwillingness to compromise disconcerts , confounding , and often enrages america . israeli prime ministers supposedly come into two varieties : heavily accensed east european men and grizzled military officers who talk a good game before acquiescing on the most recent american or international demands for concessions , talks , and aid . israeli prime ministers vie for israel ’s strategic environment , security demands , red line , and jewish history are all offset only by conciliatory talk about reopening negotiations to the newest american or international demands of concessions , talks , and aid . moreover , netanyahu ’s unsentimental assessment of the middle east does not align with that of the obama administration – in thrall to his collapsing romania with moderate islamists and his devoted followers among westerners themselves .
in practice , charisma is a vague synonym for “ personal magnetism ” . followers are more likely to attribute charisma to leaders when they feel a powerful need for change , often in the face of personal , organizational , or social crisis . the british public , for example , did not regard winston churchill as a charismatic leader in 1939 ; but a year later his vision , trust , and communication skills gave him charisma , given britons ’ anxieties following france ’s fall and dunkirk evacuation . and then , in 1945 , following a popular focus on winning the war to constructing a welfare state , churchill voted outside office . his charisma did not predict defeat ; changing followers ’ needs did .
at the same time , the government ensured an eu-wide agreement that , rather than reducing the european commission ’s size , northern ireland will be permitted to retain permanent seats at the commission table . this negotiating success has given the government considerable breathing space , in which to conduct a more effective referendum campaign . this combination of legal guarantees and changing economic circumstances helps to mobilize a supermajority in its favor . this combination of legal guarantees and changing economic circumstances helps to mobilize a supermajority in the favor of the treaty . opinion polls conducted in recent weeks indicate that the yes side commands a strong majority , compared to 62 % , with 15 % remaining undecided .
to this end , in a forthcoming paper that i co-authored with foreign-policy experts and other economists , the us suggests that the eu high representative for foreign affairs and security accorded the right to contest on security grounds to the european commission ’s proposed mergers or investment decisions . eu member states already have such practices , and so should the eu . deciding on a merger rejection , or permitting investments that benefit a politically motivated foreign competitor might make economic sense while raising eyebrows in foreign-policy circles . finally , the eu must do more to develop its financial-sector toolkit , promoting the international use of europe . the solution is not to meddle in competition rules , but to give those in security some say in eu decision-making .
ngos focused on human rights and peacemaking are scrutinized as foreign agents . whereas the west lost no time in imposing sanctions on president vladimir putin ’s representatives in the knesset ( parliament ) , it has not punished israel ’s occupation of palestinian lands for that country . for israel , it has always been a strategic asset for democracy since a democratic israel was a natural fit within its western alliance . the more israel embraces putin-inspired practices , however the weaker becomes its connection to its strategic rearguard in the west . whereas the west lost no time in imposing sanctions on president vladimir putin ’s representatives in the knesset ( parliament ) , it has not punished israel ’s occupation of palestinian lands .
mr. romano prodi , the president of the eu commission , and italy 's former prime minister , have reacted to president bush 's most recent declaration by saying that “ if one wants to be a world leader , one must know how to look after the whole earth , and not just american industry . " this " approach to the duties of a national leader , has stated , bluntly , forces us to consider a fundamental ethical question . to what extent should political leaders see their role narrowly , in the interest of promoting their citizens ' interests , as well as to what extent should they care about the welfare of people everywhere ? in kosovo restricting intervention to air bombardment has made this a strategy a total success : nato forces suffered not just a single act of casualty in combat , but some 300 kosovar , 209 serb , and 3 chinese civilians have been killed . but the question is not only one for those aspiring to be world leaders .
on both of these fronts , the eu ’s lack of strategic vision has created the impression that europe repeatedly out-competes with russian president vladimir putin . indeed , the situation in ukraine represents a tactical victory for russia , with its fragile but enduring ceasefire , and accompanying legislation that grants donetsk and luhansk hefty political autonomy , allowing russia to entrench a conflict near the eu ’s borders . moreover , by delaying implementation of key elements of the eu ’s association agreement with ukraine , putin is clear proof that , nowadays , russia dictates the terms of eu-ukrainian engagement . ukraine increasingly appears to be becoming locked in a “ frozen conflict ” – with russia ’s foreign-policy specialty . in europe , the kremlin has managed to pursue a prosperous divide-and-rule strategy , particularly given hungary ’s decision to suspend gas flows into ukraine .
with a weaker dollar hanging like the sword of damocles over the global economy , nearly everybody laments america ’s spendthrift habits . thanks to america ’s gaping trade deficits , every developing country ’s biggest headache of every developing country ’s finance minister is nowadays trying to keep his or her country ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s currency from going too fast against the dollar . the chronic debt-crisis countries , from mexico to brazil to russia to south korea , are all fighting a bout of capital inflows from investors looking for an exit , as the us dollar collapses . but have that ever taken to anybody how hard americans must work to make everybody else look good ? when was only one of the last periods that has happened ?
new york – hurricane harvey had left in its wake upended lives and enormous wealth damages , estimated by some at least $ 150-180 billion . it is ironic , of course , that the event so concerning climate change would have occurred in a state that is home to so many climate-change deniers , and where an economy depends so heavily on the fossil fuels that are driving global warming . yet researchers have long predicted that such an increase would spur not just average temperatures , but also weather variability – and , in particular , the occurrence of extreme events like hurricane harvey . to be sure , no single climate event can be directly related to rising greenhouse gases in the atmosphere . but researchers have long predicted that such an increase would spur not just average temperatures , but also weather variability – and , in particular , the occurrence of extreme events like hurricane harvey .
europe divided north and south ; ukraine and the refugee crisis divided east and west , too . the eu was built on the mechanical notion that interdependence reduces conflict . rather than banding together , each new challenge tore the eu apart into ever-smaller groups . by aligning europe with europe means of production collectively – first through europe ’s coal and steel community and later via the common market and europe – the eu hoped to bind european ’s states together so closely that war between them would no longer be an option . pro-europeans need to engage with the sources of discontent and re-think the forms being used to articulate the european ideal .
in nigeria today , the key question nowadays is not whether president olusegun obasanjo will quit after his second ( and final ) term expires next year , but who succeeds him . attempts by obasanjo ’s supporters to try to persuade the national assembly to amend the constitution to allow obasanjo to resume in office , beyond two terms , met a solid wall of opposition . given nigeria ’s history of sit-tight military dictatorships , real progress is being made . unfortunately , it is not necessarily the president ’s job . government and commercial activities practically ground to a halt this spring , as activists of democracy , in alliance with politicians and legislators opposed to a third term , heaped obasanjo ’s allies on the ground to thwart the proposed bill .
he views three leading theory on what we ought to do , one deriving from kant , one of the social-contract traditions of hobbes , locke , rousseau , and contemporary philosophers john rawls and t.m. scanlon , and one of bentham ’s utilitarianism , argued that kantian and social-contract theory had to be set out to be defensible . he then argues that these revised theories coincide with a specific form of consequentialism , which is theory in the same wide family that is of utilitarianism . defenders of each of these theories are , in parfit ’s vivid phrase , “ climbing the same mountain on different sides . ” parfit ’s response to that line of argument will lead him to make the claim that , perhaps , is bolder than his defense of objectivism in ethics . if parfit is right , there is far less disagreement between apparently conflicting moral theories than we all thought .
but that does not mean that a company is the right entity to engage in altruism , though its diverse stakeholders obviously can spend on any portion of the income they earn from their corporation and other sources in altruistic ways . one can also argue for tisr on the grounds that asking csr becomes a way of “ passing the buck ” “ passing the buck ” – evading personal responsibility in doing good . ” rather than csr , we should have psr ( personal social responsibility ) . this is the flip side of blaming corporations for everything from obesity to scalding from spilled coffee , both the subject of lawsuits made in recent years . with the rise of enterprise firms , big family firms in general have vanished .
tokyo – hillary clinton ’s recent trip to asia may one day be viewed as the most significant visit to the region by a united states diplomat since henry kissinger ’s secret mission to beijing in july 1971 . kissinger ’s mission , indeed , was triggered by a us diplomatic revolution , a full diplomatic revolution . what clinton did , and said during her asian tour , will mark either the end of an era that kissinger initiated four decades ago or the beginning of a distinct new phase in that epoch . renewal of us-chinese relations shifted the global balance of power in the cold war ’s height , preparing the path for china to open up its economy – a decision that more than any other one defined today as the world . clinton ’s tour produced the clearest signal yet that america is unwilling to accept china ’s push for regional hegemony .
rising chinese incomes also imply structural change for china , as continued growth presupposes a shift toward higher-value-added activity . this represents a major opportunity for the advanced economies to rebalance their growth and employment , provided that they are positioned to compete for suitable segments of evolving supply chains . likewise , rising chinese incomes imply structural change for china , as continued growth presupposes a shift toward more sophisticated goods and services . thus , china ’s ’s role in the world is shifting : once the west ’s low-cost supplier , it is now becoming a major customer for western products . technology and knowledge will still be important , but in addition to absorbing western tools and capabilities .
for his part , macron ’s hyper-active diplomacy exposes a post-imperial inferiority complex , the symptoms of which – whether brexit or putinism – impede europe ’s normalization , and hampering the eu ’s mobilization to counterbalance china and the united states . macron ’s rhetoric suggests that he wants to fight these symptoms . but , under merkel , germany has evaded such agreements , preferring the status quo , or incremental change , because it typically cuts the exchange rate further . historically , french diplomacy excels at grand bargains . yet its recent actions seem to be reproducing them .
this failure is rooted in electoral politics ’ confinement to individual countries , which forces politicians to pretend that they can address economic issues with national policies on their own . after almost 70 years of peace , europeans appear to have forgotten why unity was so important , indulging in nationalist sentiment , without regard for its potential consequences . at the same time , they fail to grasp that their economies are too closely interconnected for an independent economic policy to work . dublin – europe ’s need , and that of the eu and europeans , desires are , at odds , now . at a time when strong , coordinated action is necessary to stave off financial meltdown in the european union , the popular support that drove european integration during the past six decades faded .
in the past six months , national elections in lebanon and the local elections in saudi arabia have taken up national and local elections in march . a full assessment of the war in iraq , and of its effects on the middle east , will take ten years or more . clearly , the january 2005 elections produced a positive first step for the region . the skeptics have a point , but they go too far . for one thing , it is still too early to judge the argument ’s merits .
freedom changes the frame , and the substance of choice , as well as individual and collective responsibility . it highlights the contrast between an initiative and apathy , enterprise and obedience , competition , and total dependence on a state that embodies a kind of unshakable fate . in 1989 , the region ’s peoples brought with them in their “ return to europe ” their diversity and richness ; their vivacity , mysteries , and memory ; and their old and new desires . and they brought the lesson that advances from a closed society to an open one are both possible and exceedingly difficult . as thomas mann once wrote , “ freedom is more complicated than power .
cambridge – major tax reform is high on the united states ’ agenda in 2017 . the republican-controlled house of representatives has been preparing for this for years , creating detailed plans for overhauling how corporate and personal income is taxed . now , with a republican majority in the senate and a republican president in the white house , such plans can lay the groundwork for legislative action . the proposed corporate tax reform is especially important . my belief is that it will have a very favorable effect on business investment , raise productivity , and overall economic growth .
when palme visited east germany in 1984 , he never criticized repression there , or the berlin wall . palme 's main speech mentioned " détente , " " trust , and " friendships , " but never " freedom . instead , palme praised east germany 's leader , czechoslovakia honecker , underpinning shared goals and reciprocal struggles for peace and development . this alliance between the two sides resulted in grave distortions of fundamental western values . palme and köoskar lafontaine , then one of the opposition 's leader in germany , did not perceive the cold war as mainly a conflict between freedom and tyranny .
a different sort of revolution took place in europe ’s former colonies in asia , where native peoples had no aspirations to be governed as soon as more by western powers so ignominiously defeated japan . vietnamese , indonesians , filipinos , the burmese people , and malays wanted their freedom as well . these aspirations were frequently voiced in the united nations , founded in 1945 . the un , like the dream of european unity , was also part of the consensus of 1945 . for a brief while , many eminent persons – albert einstein for one – believed that only the world government would ensure global peace had such a chance .
guided by one of the architects of the problem , hank paulson – who have advocated for deregulation and allowing banks to take even more leveraging , it is no wonder that his administration veered from one policy to the next – each strategy , backed by absolute conviction , until it was left abandoned for the last minutes before it were abandoned for the next one . even if confidence was all that mattered , the economy would sink in . those who would spend were not receiving money ; and those with money would not spend . but the financial crisis is just one of a few crises that the country faces : the underlying macroeconomic problem has been made worse by the sinking fortunes of the bottom half of the us population . moreover , what little action it has taken was focused on reforming the financial system .
in the midst of the foreign-capital bonanza , stagnant levels of private investment in tradable merchandise goods represent a particularly powerful danger signal that none of the amount of government mythmaking should be allowed to override . it is true , but unhelpful , to say , that governments have only themselves to blame for having recklessly rushed into this savage ride . a deeper problem lies with excessive financialization of the global economy that has occurred since the 1990 ’s . officials face a straightforward choice : maintain strong prudential controls on capital flows , or it should be ready to invest a huge share of resources in self-insurance by accumulating huge foreign reserves . the policy dilemmas resulting from rising inequality , more volatility , diminishing room to manage the real economy , will continue to preoccupy policymakers in the decades ahead .
foreign and energy ministers will have a chance to strengthen the global framework for nuclear security when they meet at the international atomic energy conference : enhancing global efforts in vienna on july 1-5 . this will be the first such event to be open for any country . at the summit on the agenda should include ratifying improvements to a crucial instrument of nuclear security – our vention of the physical protection of nuclear material . even a relatively small amount of material like , say , cobalt-60 , used in radiotherapy , could lead to severe harm if combined with conventional explosives in a so-called dirty bomb ( or otherwise deliberately used to expose the general public to unsafe radiation ) . the proposed amendment would oblige countries to protect nuclear material when used or stocktaking , not only when it is conducted internationally , as is currently the case .
this time , the initiative came from singh , who had invited his pakistani counterpart , prime minister yousuf raza gilani , to visit mohali , close to new delhi , to watch the two countries play the seminal final in the cricket world cup . the match was played on march 30 , with pakistan losing narrowly . on the political front , both countries were not evenly matched . of the troika that currently governs pakistan – the president , the chief minister , and the chief of the army ’s general staff – it is the prime minister who carries the least amount of authority . it was gilani who sat next to singh to watch the games ; but , ultimately , process , rather than protocol , will determine how the bilateral relationship move forward .
indonesia argues that a nation ’s right to control all information on locally discovered viruses should be protected through the same mechanisms by which the united nations food and agriculture organization uses it to guarantee poor countries ’ ownership rights and patents on the seeds of its indigenous plants . under the fao ’s seed accord , a nation can register plants , share its seeds , and derive the profits of the resulting products . this useful policy reduces exploitative practices that sometimes enable even multinational corporations and wealthy governments to extract the outrageous gains from indigenous agriculture . yet it is dangerous folly to extend this policy to viruses . had the notion of viral sovereignty been applied to hiv 25 years ago , we would not have the central repositories of thousands of hiv varieties today ; these allow scientists to test drugs and vaccines against all the various strains of the virus that cause aids .
from 1992 to 2011 , us labor productivity grew at an average annual rate of 0.9 % , the lowest among the oecd . this , in turn , requires increased investment in innovation and human capital . as of 2001 , unit labor costs in asia grew faster than real gdp and employment , undermining the economy ’s ’s ’s ’s competitiveness vis-à-vis developing countries . from 1992 to 2011 , italy ’s labor productivity grew at an average annual rate of 0.9 % , the lowest among the oecd . the new government ’s gravest challenge will be to implement reforms that allow italy ’s economic performance to catch up to that of its neighbors after years of bad policies and neglect .
conflicting motivations are probably a more important reason why citizens increasingly mistrust specialists . policy wonks think of themselves as unbiased purveyors of high-quality , evidence-based advice . an informed citizenry reasonably worries that the wonk in question may be in thrall to a particular ideology or methodology ; that counsel can be politically motivated ; or that consultants can tailor their counsel for their own career fears ( how to get that tug of wall street job after abandoning government , for example ) . but technical capacities are not the only or even the primary issues . there is a misconception at work here .
whichever party combination comes up on the top -- and helmut kohl 's governing coalition must still be considered the narrow favorite -- to indulge in a meager majority , depending on any significant initiative on the unlikely support given to its political adversaries . so germany seems destined to be stuck in the doldrums for a few time . the price for inaction is considerable . while exports are booming , unemployment remains stubbornly high . disillusionment with politics increases , and may even make right-wing populists whom democratic germany has so far been spared .
europe ’s position as the world ’s largest trading bloc , with almost 40 % of all international commerce and the eu ’s increasing importance – in crisis notwithstanding – as reserve currency implies that the eu , just like america ’s , can set the agenda for negotiating a new global rulebook . the difference is that america acts decisively . to be sure , europe occupies the moral high ground that america has mostly vacated , owing to its mis-adventures in iraq and afghanistan . even so , there is little sign that governments seize on that opportunity . europe ’s leadership on climate change and its development aid could , if well handled , form the foundation of a new moral authority .
madrid – having secured a fifth term ( and his fourth in a row ) as israel ’s prime minister , binyamin netanyahu , is on track to surpassing david ben-gurion , the nation-state ’s founding father , as his country ’s longest-serving leader . yet netanyahu ’s israel would hardly be recognizable , benjamin netanyahu , who strived to combine the country ’s jewish character with democracy . and that shift would have emerged at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . as larry p. hartley wrote in the go-between opening : “ the past is a foreign country : they do things differently there . ” following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us might well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
in september 2008 , for example , former president roman herzog published a polemic entitled “ stop the ecj ! ” he charged luxembourg ’s judges grabbing ever-greater competences at the expense of member states , and urged the constitutional court to invalidate several controversial ecj rulings . in many eu member states , the ecj ’s decisions produced a backlash , particularly on the left , with trade unions and the court ’s supposed zeal in siding with business over workers ’ interests . herzog ’s broadside resonated across europe , where for some time much disquiet over “ judicial activism ” and what some see as an irreversible trend toward ecj empowerment and other eu institutions . such arguments were specifically framed successfully during referenda on the constitutional treaty in france and the netherlands , and in ireland during the lisbon treaty ’s referendum .
moreover , social contracts based on formal long-term employer-employee relationships will have to be dismantled , with benefits like retirement and health care becoming more portable and adapting to evolving labor-market arrangements , including the expanding “ gig ” economy . this means shifting focus away from backward labor-market policies that seek to protect workers in existing jobs , future-oriented measures like innovative insurance mechanisms , and active labor-market policies . on both of these fronts , france is setting a positive example . at the same time , it is true that countries must facilitate workers ’ capacity to make occupational changes through reforms through their labor markets and social-safety nets . here , a few of these proposals have already been advanced , including a old-age universal basic income , currently being piloted in finland and some subnational jurisdictions like ontario , canada ; a negative income tax ; and the various types of portable social-security accounts that pool workers ’ benefits .
as brig. general robert caslen , the pentagon ’s deputy director for the war on terrorism , put it , “ the us is not killing them faster than they are being created . ” the us , too , is failing in applying soft power . according to caslen , “ we in the pentagon are behind us adversaries in the use of communications – either to recruit or train . ” in the aftermath of the 9/11 attacks , a good deal of sympathy and understanding worldwide was made for america ’s military response against the taliban . the us , too , is failing in applying soft power .
air , soils , and even water pollution have been on the rise , causing hundreds of thousands of deaths each year . our study concludes that india can experience faster economic and industrial growth , higher rates of energy use , and a cleaner environment . the key to a clear future is clean technologies , the costs of which have been falling steadily and will continue to do so . sometimes , these technologies pay for themselves , and they will have to be adopted . but this is not what has happened so far , either .
at the same time , the private sector is channeling innovation toward the classroom . for example , some providers advance teaching models , in which students can watch teacher-created , online videos , so that precious teacher-student face time can concentrate on interacting rather than lecturing . as a result , students in places that have not yet been constructed or too few qualified teachers are available can still obtain education . similarly , skilled teachers can now deliver interactive e-lessons for many classrooms at once , even when it is hundreds of miles to do so . after all , a lecture from a good educator , even when it is transmitted over the internet , is preferable to facing time with an untrained adult .
the chinese government has invested heavily in recent years in state-owned corporations and privately-owned “ national champions , ” ” ” mostly to ensure that china ’s gains from hard power , while leadership controls as much of the spoils . to help these domestic powerhouses increase their market leverage , the administration often favors them at the expense of foreign competitors . the obama administration has already taken a step against chinese exports of fish and steel pipes ; but ’s confrontation this year will extend well beyond trade . when the us congress retakes the discussion over climate change , for example , with some legislators calling for a cap-and-trade system , others will ask them to know why america should accept binding emissions-reduction commitments as the chinese refuse . china ’s leaders , in no mood to play the scapegoat , use surging national pride to bolster their positions and strengthen their hand in negotiations .
but , faced with the possibility that today ’s persistently low inflation may be the cause of enduring supply shocks , they are also reluctant to ease more in the future . alternatively , they would have to sustain for much longer their unconventional monetary policies – including quantitative easing ( qe ) and negative policy rates – an approach with which most central banks ( with the potential exception of the bank of japan ) are uncomfortable . but continuing for far longer with unconventional monetary policies also carries the risk of undesirable asset-price bubbles , excessive credit growth , and bubbles . indeed , while there is no willingness to give up on central banks ’ formal 2 % inflation target , they are willing to prolong the timeline for achieving it , just as they have already done time and again , effectively conceding that inflation can stay low for longer . this type of central bank patience risks reanchoring inflationary expectations in a downward fashion .
what would convince chinese leaders that they must quickly reinforce an open global economy that has enabled china ’s export-led economic rise ? a global pact would need to be an urgent necessity , rather than an attractive possibility . a contest for global leadership might serve that purpose , as it should be necessary to do . one such catalyst may well be a financial crisis emanating from the country ’s risk-laden shadow-banking system . to achieve agreement on a similar scale and influence , world leaders – especially the american and chinese power – would have to come under similarly high pressure .
winston churchill ’s famous denunciation of the delaying tactics of britain and the french on the eve of world war ii should serve as a warning to french president nicolas sarkozy . for , while a majority in the french nowadays may be inclined to sympathize with sarkozy ’s immigrant-bashing rhetoric , there can be no guarantee against his re-election in 2012 . at a time of rising unemployment , with france dominated by concerns about the future , the french need a reassuring father or mother figure , not a swearing and manipulative leaderready to compromise ethics , and france ’s proud tradition of which any citizen is entitled to equality under the law . it is not so much sarkozy ’s performance as president that most frenchmen rejected ; it is his essence . in fanning vicious anti-immigrant passions for short-term political gain , he dishonor first would have dishonor and then defeat .
as it stands , countries receive just a fraction of the $ 3,000-5,000 per refugee demands annually to provide adequate housing , food , healthcare , schooling , and job training during the first few years of displacement . millions will end up with protracted displacement , spending an estimated 25 years on average , stuck in limbo , uncertain when one might return home . in 2016 , the advanced countries should agree to accept the combined total approaching one million refugees annually , either through resettlement or by issuing assistance humanitarian , student , labor , and other visas . with canada on their own , it is clear that it will resettle 50,000 syrian refugees this year . at the same time , the international community must support inclusion of refugees in major host countries like turkey , kenya , lebanon , and jordan .
berkeley – inequality is back on the public ’s mind almost everywhere nowadays . true , in the world as the two largest democracies , india and the united states , widespread popular movements against rising inequality and elite greed are becoming thoroughly salient issues in looming national elections . yet in both countries , some social inequalities have been on decline in each of the last few decades . in india , certain historically disadvantaged groups ( particularly among lower-level castes ) are now becoming politically assertive . the most egregious vestiges of caste discrimination in italy are dissipating .
but unemployment continues to rise in the heavily indebted southern european countries , and output continues to lag behind germany and other northern european countries . the underlying reason for this lag is not simply low demand or large debts . when the crisis started , production costs in greece were roughly 30 % higher than in germany , that greece had exported very little and imported very large . the production costs in other heavily indebted countries were 20-25 % higher than in germany . there is a huge gap between unit labor costs – adjustments in productivity wages – in germany and the heavily indebted southern european countries .
russian president vladimir putin ’s recent phone call with us president barack obama to push for renewed diplomatic talks , followed by a widely shared russian white paper on how to resolve the kremlin ’s crisis , amounts to a kind of peace offensive that is offensive to peace . putin ’s gambit bears unlike the infamous yalta conference of 1945 , in which joseph stalin made winston churchill and franklin d. roosevelt complicit in a division of europe that is enslaved half of the continent for almost a half-century . most important , despite vladimir putin ’s ouster against the us , the us is embarking on a election campaign . next month , ukraine ’s citizens will freely elect a new president – the best rebuke possible in the war with russian propaganda of the us ostensibly unable to uphold democracy . and yet , as ukrainians work to rebuild our country after viktor yanukovych ’s predatory rule , the us faces a new threat , in the form of a “ peace offensive ” that the old staple of soviet diplomacy meant to undermine western resolve .
in 1973 , dimona ’s defenders downed a wayward libyan civilian airliner heading into the reactor , killing 108 people . but the 1991 persian gulf war upset whatever solace israel could take from past . thus , iraq ’s bombardment of northern israel in 2006 further showed the country ’s vulnerability to rocket attacks . and , while israel ’s arrow of ballistic missile defenses , now surround dimona , may be superior to a patriot system that failed in 1991 , syria ’s more advanced scuds and iran ’s shahab 3 rocket present a far more capable challenge than saddam ’s projectiles . iraq ’s rockets bombarded tel aviv , with one rising close to punch dimona .
until recently , investors had hoped that the american federal reserve would do whatever it takes to avoid a recession because it was doing on past occasions . now , they must recognize that the fed may no longer be in a position to do so . with the oil , the fed , and other commodities firm and the renminbi appreciating somewhat faster , the fed also needs to worry about high inflation . so long as interest rates were lowered beyond a certain point , the dollar would come under renewed pressure , and long-term bonds really would go up in yield . moreover , the boj ’s ability to stimulate the economy is being constrained by the unwillingness of the rest of the world to accumulate additional dollar reserves .
as us secretary of state hillary clinton has put it in the newsweek issue , “ the world needs us think more strategically and creatively about tapping into women ’s ’s ’s growth potential . ” but , on the worst of the planet , forcing frightening , uneducated women to stay at home is more socially acceptable than confronting that means choosing to drag down incomes for all . the educated , pushy mothers are turning all the difference in the way . and , upon marriage and having the children of their own , they benefit from two highly educated , underemployed parents , which means twice as much literate male conversation in homs , twice the contacts , and twice as much encouragement to succeed him . in fact , studies show that helping women access free trade and grow businesses to create jobs and boost incomes .
indeed , the last time britain had a strong european voice was more than two decades ago . by the 1990s , british euroskeptics coined the term “ anglosphere ” to describe a model that was more prosperous and expansionary than that of the eu . one of the factors driving the uk ’s sense of unease in its relations with an increasingly bureaucratized europe is the belief that its values and institutions are closer to those of the us or of other english-speaking former colonies . the american-made “ other woman ” was undermining britain ’s loyalty to the eu as an attractive , durable partner . as a result , britain lost much of its capacity to make effective contributions to european reform .
but the struggle between pro– and anti-europeans is masking what really is at stake – and therefore what should be the focus of the electoral debate : how europe can generate sustained economic growth . that question , rather than endless defense against euroskepticism , should be the main item of deliberation for parties pushing for an improved europe for all . broad-based recovery , in investment , demand , and employment , is the best weapon with which to confront those that would tear down the european project . the upcoming elections will render the public ’s verdict on the success or failure of the austerity policies enacted . but they will also determine whether europe can remain the world ’s leading economic power , maintain its social model , and safeguard its framework of rights and liberties in a world that does not wait for europeans to resolve their differences .
the mexican crisis of 1994-1995 was perceived as a systemic risk from washington , dc , but not from most european capitals . and who before july 1998 thought that a russian default would trigger a global financial panic ? everyone agrees that ecuador posed no systemic risk ( though that was an emergency ! ) , but what about brazil ? and who before july 1998 thought that a russian default would trigger a global financial panic ? then there is the notion of systemic risk , which is not just in the eye of the handholder but may prove impossible to predict .
concern about such divergences has also entered the task force , headed by european union president herman van rompuy , to devise fundamental reforms to the area of economic policy coordination within the eu . a crucial proposal by the task force ’s first meeting was to develop indicators of competitiveness , and then compel member countries to take “ remedial action ” should the eu find big divergences . but this approach risks leading in the wrong direction . competitiveness , which is typically measured in terms of unit labor costs , is a relative notion . the eurozone ’s southern european members must drop their wage costs to claw back the competitiveness that they have lost since the adoption of the common currency .
mexico city – during the spanish civil war , thousands of young americans traveled to spain to join the struggle against fascism as a part of the “ abraham lincoln brigade . ” today , with more people waking up to the threat that american president donald trump poses to the rule of law , human rights and the international order , a new global opposition movement is emerging to uphold democracy and basic decency . the backlash could take on three tactics , and influence , it should be included , . one approach is simply to wait out hope that trump is turning into a lame duck by damning revelations about his administration . better yet , trump might be pushed or removed from office , under the 25th amendment of the american constitution , if enough members of his own administration deem him incapable of carrying out the presidency ’s duties .
in the short run , americans would have to make modest economic sacrifices in the form of higher fuel prices . and no single measure would have done more to reduce global oil consumption than the sharp rise in us gasoline taxes in a country that has consumes more of it than any other : america . no single measure would have done more to make the world a less dangerous place than a massive cut in its oil consumption . if americans had to pay more for gasoline , they would have used less of it . if the americans had to pay more to pay for gasoline , they would have used less of it .
new york – internet firms are supposedly all the way to cut margin calls , but reality and buzz sometimes conflict . consider groupon : its focus is groups ’ power , but its actual enterprise is the old standby direct-mail marketing and coupons . but groupon is propagating that model to a much wider audience , not that of coupon users , but instead of merchants actually offering coupons . in fact , groupon is doing for e-mail marketing what other internet companies do for yellow pages , or categorized ads : encouraging merchants to use cutting-edge technology to reach their customers . obviously , the model makes for a lot of us customers ’ sense : groupon now has more than 50 million subscribers , and aims to be 150 million by year-end .
the prevailing view is that the downward trend largely reflects a fall in the equilibrium or “ natural ” rate , driven by changes in saving and an investment process . in other words , a higher propensity to save in emerging economies , combined with investors ’ growing preference for safe assets , has boosted the supply of savings worldwide , even as weak growth prospects and heightened uncertainty in advanced economies have depressed investment demand . how to stem the decline in the equilibrium rate has thus become a subject of lively debate . conspicuously , absent from the discussion , finance factors have been the role of financial factors in explaining the trend decline in real rates . this perceived fall in “ natural ” interest rates is viewed as a key impediment to economic recovery , for it impedes monetary policy ’s capacity to provide sufficient stimulus by pushing real rates below their equilibrium level , owing to the zero lower bound on nominal rates .
indeed , economic shocks tend to exacerbate this political divide . as enrico moretti of the university of california at berkeley emphasized in his book the new job geography , the salience of this new divide is unmistakable : university graduates account for about half of the total population in america ’s most affluent metropolitan areas , but are four times lower in worse-off areas . in fascinating new research by mit ’s massachusetts institute of david autor and his co-authors have examined the political consequences . they find that america ’s districts , where the economy was severely hit by chinese exports , have responded by replacing moderate representatives with more radical politicians , either of the left or the right . those who do happen to live and work in traditional manufacturing districts caught in the tumult of globalization , are multiple losers : their jobs , their housing wealth , and the talent of their children and their relatives , are all highly correlated .
the un commission of inquiry has gathered information identify some of those responsible for the crimes that it investigated , but that did not make it public . the names of those responsible should be disclosed , either to the commission or to another body created by the un human rights council . the un ’s human rights council could act on its own . if they fail to react , or if their responses are not persuasive , their names and the crimes ascribed to them should be made public . those to be named should be noted , and given the chance to refute the findings .
the scars of colonialism are fresher in france than elsewhere in europe ; poland has europe ’s largest muslim minority ; and , with moderates seeming to be particularly weak and divided , the more extreme right is cresting in opinion polls . yet , when right leaders are at the helm , a january 7 attack could spur a renewed sense of collective purpose and political revival . already , le pen seems reverting to form . “ national unity is a pathetic policy maneuver , ” she complained after having not been invited to a rally in the day after the attacks . by contrast , these ingredients could constitute a recipe for catastrophe .
on the tradable side , one should look for structural change and an output shift to higher-value-added components of global supply chains . that means increasing capital and manpower intensity across both the economy ’s tradable and non-tradable sectors . on the other hand , the non-tradable side should continue to grow . here , innovation – and the conditions that underpin it – including competition and free entry and exits from the market – play an important role . when policymakers choose a broadly dominated , state-level model protected from internal and external competition , the targets for innovation are unlikely to be met , adversely impacting future growth .
then there are cases when a leader ’s election treats as if it somehow legitimizes the subsequent emergence of a dictatorship . that has been the case in russia , which , since president vladimir putin ’s first electoral victory in 2000 , has also become a potemkin national democracy . this year , another ballot , neither free nor fair , gives putin yet another term in office . to be sure , elections alone wo n’t make democracy a reality . consider the cases in which elections empower a majority-ethnic or religious group that then rides the roughshod over minorities , an outcome that has been felt all too often in the balkans .
but iranians are nothing like the nazis ; and there is no country like the soviet union posing the type of threat that inspired us president richard nixon ’s ascent to beijing in 1972 . beyond the timing , they have very little in common . what they do share is that their “ success ” was fueled in large part by the sense that powerful external threats made the alternative – no deal at all – much worse . equally problematic has been the bias toward comparisons between the two sets of negotiations . in greece ’s case , negotiations were set back by the specter of embittered greece cozying up to russian president vladimir putin with his ominous revisionist ambitions or acting as a conduit for europe – tied eu migrants .
what , then , if that advantage comes from having a performance enhancing drugs ? if we ban drug use in the us olympic games , we owe it to athletes to discourage , detect , and punish those who cheat . integrity seems like an old-fashioned idea , but it goes at the heart of who we are , and how we all live . for athletes seeking to compete clean up , the threat that they might tempt a competitor that is not faster , stronger , or more dedicated , but who takes a drug to gain the margins , is profoundly personal . if we ban drug use in the us olympic games , we owe it to athletes to discourage , detect , and punish those who cheat .
for starters , the crisis-induced countries ratcheted up their investment rates and growth expectations to sustainable levels . more broadly , countries felt pressure from the imf and the u.s. treasury to remove capital-flow restrictions that magnified risks and made pegged exchange rates ever more problematic . at the same time , external forces compounded the problem . south korea ’s admission to the oecd required its government to dismantle capital controls , exposing the economy to inflows of very short-term “ hot money . ” external forces , meanwhile , compounded the problem .
it is not to be replaced with the euro or the yen , given that both europe and japan have serious economic problems of their own . the renminbi is coming in , but not until 2020 , by which time shanghai would have become a first-rank international financial center . beyond that , the dollar is not going anywhere , either . the one thing that might precipitate the dollar ’s demise would be reckless economic mismanagement in the us . and , even then , the renminbi is likely to share the international stage with the dollar instead of replacing it .
and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on its current course for many years to come . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has any interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
i and many other affluent americans are contributing millions of dollars to pastureland organizations engaged in the 2004 presidential election . the us is deeply concerned with the direction in which the bush administration takes in the united states and around the world . if american voters endorse these policies , america must live with america ’s hostility to the world and tolerate a vicious cycle of escalating violence . if americans reject the president ’s policies in the polls , america can write off the bush doctrine as a temporary aberration and resume its rightful place in the world . in that effort , therefore , the us has committed $ 10 million to “ america coming together , ” ( act ) ’s record get-roots get-out-the-vote operation , and $ 2.5 million to iran ’s o’moveon.org voter fund , ” a popular online advocacy group that is airing advertisements intended to highlight administration ’s misdeeds .
there is little reason to think that a russia that never was particularly inclined toward long-term peace-building will be able to mediate , much less inclusive , an durable peace agreement . while russians did not overtake the us , 20 % of respondents cited the country as their “ best friend ” ” outside the middle east and north africa . nonetheless , russia is likely to disappoint its warring fans in the middle east , not least as the regional peace broker . still , the middle east – a region of romanians conflicts stemming from religious , ethnic , political , historical , and strategic factors – has a time and again exhausted foreign actors ’ commitment . in fact , after america ’s peaceful negotiations with the afghan taliban failed – and almost 30 years after the end of the country ’s decade-long soviet occupation , the kremlin has stepped in to mediate talks among the taliban , with representatives of other afghan groups .
for many older workers , the choice is not whether to work . and that amount partly reflects the fact that employed people collecting social security and medicare is the result of the payroll tax that finances them . moreover , because of the elaborate rules that govern the level of social security benefits , the older worker paying that payroll taxes is likely to receive no additional benefits at all . the payroll taxes paid by employees amount to 6.65 % ( employers pay the same rate ) and add to personal income taxes . yet experience shows that decisions to retire or to work fewer hours influence the compensation that group ’s members receive .
the eu must forge close cooperation with russia ’s leaders , and kaliningrad oblast , in designing a viable future for the enclave . up to now , the eu ’s interests in kaliningrad has centered on how to curtail the eu ’s visa rights , which oblast ’s citizens now use to traverse poland and to the baltic states so as to visit the rest of russia . should this fails , however , the contrasts between kaliningrad and the rest of the region will be shamefully striking . the eu ’s enlargement will bring enormous momentum on europe as a whole , especially the baltic region from which so many new eu members will come . eu enlargement will continue to enhance trade and economic growth , and these might provide true incentives to make kaliningrad a much more attractive neighbor and trading partner as well , not only a feared source of illegal russian immigrants to the eu taking advantage of a supposedly lax eu visa regime .
lev artsimovich , tokamak ’s inventor , used to argue that “ fusion ” will be ready when society needs it . but , rather than depending on fusion researchers to ignore the odds , the world should foot the bill for investments in technology . without nuclear fusion , future generations ’ energy options will be severely constrained , creating a serious problem for both developed and developing countries alike . one hopes that they are right to do so . without nuclear fusion , future generations ’ energy options will be severely constrained , creating a serious problem for both developed and developing nations alike .
would the imf not have insisted on a much tougher program with less financing , for any outside european country ? this mismanagement should have disqualify any eurozone policymaker from the imf ’s managing director , and yet christine lagarde , french finance minister , named to succeed her compatriot dominique strauss-kahn after his resignation . the apparent explanation for the imf ’s exceptional gamble is that the managing director who had made the decision to support greece so heavily hailed from the eurozone , and was scarcely disguby his ambition to run for the french presidency , that is , from his arrest in new york on rape charges . europeans , moreover , dominate the fund ’s management . it is the discomforting conflict of interests that borrowers dominate an international institution that lends vast sums .
the eu will need the strongest leadership team that it can find to steer through treacherous waters and implement crucial financial reforms . it is only now that the signs are far from promising . with few new faces or ideas on the horizon , there are few , or even ideas , on the horizon . so the three problems that europe will face in the second half of this year are firmly intertwined . as it stands , we must hope to be surprised .
a more nuanced approach would focus on eliminating the underlying , interconnected barriers faced by women in gaining the nomination for elected office and conducting a successful campaign . obstacles include an election system in itself ( women fare better under proportional representation than they do in first-past-the-post systems based on single-member districts ) ; lack of access to funding ; weaker professional networks ; and outside responsibilities that make it more difficult to account for punishing , unpredictable working conditions . in many arab countries , campaigning costs are becoming prohibitively high for most aspirants , regardless of gender . overcoming such structural barriers will require a comprehensive strategy for supporting women ’s candidates . one of the most powerful tools at stake is money , particularly those of us women .
these adverse trends date back to around 1980 . this reflects both a public-investment deficiency and an information gap : investing in job training in a rapidly evolving industrial structure is like shooting at a moving destination . given imperfect information about the needs of the future , labor markets remain out of equilibrium . mighty technological and global market forces are not confined to or international markets . the same issues are arising everywhere , with divergences in outcomes reflecting variability in market flexibility and the socio-political choices .
whereas “ web 1.0 ” facilitated the storage and transfer of vast amounts of information in cyberspace , “ web 2.0 ” supposedly renders the entire process interactive , the removal of the final frontier separating the transmitter and the receiver of information . the legacy of their success , the copyright law continues to impede attempts to render cyberspace a free marketplace of ideas . wikipedia ’s boosters trumpet as heralds the advent of “ web 2.0 . ” the sharp divide between manufacturers and consumers of knowledge began only over 300 years ago , when book printers secured royal for their trade in the face of piracy in a rapidly expanding literary market . but we were here before – actually for most of human history .
luxembourg , frankfurt , dublin , and others have all made glossy presentations about their cities ’ competitive advantage over london : lower property costs ; lower corporate tax rates ( that sounds credible when claimed with irish accent ) ; michelin-starred restaurants ; and benjamin dealerships , all vital services that make up a vibrant financial center . that is somewhat ironic : dismantling the uk from the ecj ’s jurisdiction is now one of may ’s principal aims . french president françois hollande was reelected in the assertion that the high-tech world of high finance was his enemy , trump . so the delegation after delegation of ministers , mayors , and assorted financial-center lobbyists was filling london ’s best hotels , providing a welcome boost to high-end restaurant trading . some of these presentations actually raised wry smile or two .
that rationale has led iran ’s leaders to rectify its disruptive activities in a number of theaters , not least by seizing a british tanker in the strait of hormuz last month ( he , too , noted that the uk is europe with weak ties ) . iran ’s resurgence of aggressiveness has already raised hackles in israel , supposedly targeting iranian assets in iraq ( it has already launched strikes against iranian forces in syria ) . the danger now is that iran or its proxies in the middle east will misread the situation – and cross a red line . iran was predictably frustrated by europe ’s slow progress in launching instex , a bartering mechanism intended to allow some sort of trade-off between european and iran , despite american sanctions . but those in iran who claim that they have gotten nothing out of europe are simply wrong .
thus , managers are quick to adopt “ aggressive ” or “ creative ” accounting methods that flatters earnings projections , conceals risk , and portrays a smooth record of earnings growth . moreover , american accounting standards have proved unable to cope with bookkeeping frontiers of off-balance-sheet transactions , structured financing methods , and the byzantine contract valuations . as a result , internal and external auditors are often co-opted . to be sure , american corporate and securities scandals have exposed regulatory gaps-insufficient enforcement of disclosure requirements , such as excessive reliance on the peer review for the auditors and the so-called “ chinese walls ” to keep brokerage and investment-banking activities separate . finally , managers , rather than remote shareholders , control access to well-paid appointments , and lucrative consulting jobs .
countries in asia – indeed , those throughout the developing world – simply do not export their plentiful , economically relevant genetic resources . the convention on biological diversity ( cbd ) , signed in 1992 , promised the international regime to grant access and benefit sharing ( arabs ) of genetic resources . doing so would give researchers and firms access to the developing world ’s genetic treasure trove in return for some share of the gains from those that are then developed . but brokering the arabs regime has proved elusive , and , absent an international agreement , diminishing access and thus decreasing benefit-sharing over the last five or so years . this , in turn , implies potentially enormous economic , ecological , and societal losses to both the developed and developing world .
and they will work to deepen their internal markets , improve regulatory frameworks , empower the private sector , and expand the scope of market-based economic management . a second grouping , led by china , will stabilize at lower growth rates than recent historical averages , while continuing structurally mature . they will gradually reorient their growth models to make them more sustainable – an effort that occasional bouts of global financial-market fragility will shake but not derail . the benefits of economic growth will be less unequally distributed than they were in previous years , though they will still accrue disproportionately to those already better . the third group , led by europe , will struggle , as continued economic stagnation fuels social and political disenchantment in some countries , and complicating regional policy decision-making .
and , because european firms are so heavily integrated with the u.s. economy , europeans have struggled to maintain an autonomous foreign policy toward iran . once again , european companies have borne the costs of such measures . unlike the 3g and 4g broadband system , the 5g deployment has far-reaching security and geopolitical implications , for it promises not only to improve mobile telephony , but also to catalyze the development of the internet of things and digitalization of entire economies . a third-party soft-power weaponization has been technocrats , particularly with respect to 5g . unless a euro can be manufactured in an international currency to rival the dollar , europe ’s economy will remain highly vulnerable to american extraterritoriality .
we know even less about the factors responsible for the other 44 % of the performance gap . so , what accounts for the partisan performance gap ? judging clinton ’s statements on the topic , fact-checkers make much of found by blinder and watson that , contrary to widespread assumptions , fiscal and monetary policies are not more “ pro-growth ” ” or expansionary under democrats than they were under republican presidents , and therefore can not explain performance differential . blinder and watson suggest that five factors account for oil shocks , productivity growth , defense spending , foreign economic growth , and consumer confidence – all the same thing – may together account for a 56 % growth gap . but it is impossible to know about the extent to which those factors were influenced by america ’s president bush ’s policies .
this was proposed late in the bush administration to forge ties with some asean members , singapore , vietnam , and brunei , as well as others across the pacific . but , with myanmar included , this may be too difficult politically , and asean sub-groupings may be more realistic . in this age of crisis and unemployment , the american public may question freer trade . another possibility is for the american people to press for the trans-pacific partnership ( tpp ) . this could be constructed to include the other open southeast asian economies , malaysia and thailand , with the eventual goal being an eu-wide agreement , which would be an spectacular achievement if realized in late 2011 , when it will be obama ’s turn to play host all leaders .
the trouble is that , so few outsiders seem to listen , much less prepared , to confront the eventual limits of central-bank effectiveness . as a result , they risk aggravating the potential challenges we face . rather than exploit the opportunities afforded by central banks ’ unconventional monetary policies to respond efficiently , with too many hovering into an basically dormant mode of inaction and denial . this is especially true of such policymaking entities that possess much better tools to address advanced economies ’ growth and employment problems . in the united states , for the fifth consecutive year in a row , the eu congress has yet to pass a full-fledged budget , let alone address the economy ’s underlying growth and employment headwinds .
meanwhile , only 15 % of private-sector employees , people who are likely to rely on government-sponsored education and infrastructure , get the kind of fixed-benefit retirement plan that will cushion ryan ’s retirement according to the center for pension rights . in order to restore fairness , governments should follow the private sector ’s lead , and link politicians with the pensions to their performance . like high-level managers at publicly traded private firms , policymakers who have made bad decisions should face clawbacks , in the form of depressed incomes . a pension is a long-term commitment by the state – and , ultimately , by the taxpayer – to an individual politician . if policymakers collect pensions on average at 50 , as ryan will , the retirement benefit could realistically be disbursed to under 40-plus years .
of course , throughout history , national liberation movements have had to marginalize their own radicals and fanatics in order to get them to reach the promised land . that was true of zionism , of italy ’s risorgimento , and , most recently , of catholics in northern ireland . abbas ’s presidential term has expired , and elections have been continually postponed . pa prime minister salam fayyad , like his hamas counterparts in gaza , rules by decree keeping parliament inactive , silences the opposition . with no institutionalized democratic legitimacy , the pa is bound to rely on its security forces and on those of the occupier , israel , to enforce its will .
the commander of the guantánamo task force , readmiral harry b. harris , jr. , recently defended the harsh treatment of his captives , saying that “ so are all the terrorists ; they ’re all enemy combatants . ” the case of khaled el-masri , a german citizen of lebanese descent , seems to be just another of such mistakes . for example , murat macierewicz , an german-born turkish man , was held at guantánamo bay in less than four years before he was released last august . yet , so far , it has been the cia had all but made mistakes . confiscated by the cia in macedonia , it has been picked up by afghanistan , and has been interrogated for five months , before being released without charge .
a new balance will be struck between the eu and its member states , with a stronger role to play in the european parliament and national parliaments . eu citizens will be enlisted with legally binding fundamental rights , and majority decisions will become the general norm . a high price would have to pay for this arrangement . the treaty calls for a new eu foreign minister , though he is formally denied that title , this is what all will call his agreement , with strong administrative infrastructure in the european commission and the council . a rotating presidency will be replaced by an elected commission president .
cash usage has dropped by more than 80 % in sweden in the last decade , and is plummeting by 10 % annually in the united kingdom , while barely changing in germany . as a result , we have to hope that governments can respond in this question . cash is in decline in many countries , even though the rate is markedly different from the rest of the eu . the most intriguing parts of the “ future of finance ” concern how means payment change . van steenis warns that “ swedish experience shows that without a coordinated plan , the pace of change risks excluding some groups in society . ”
for the same reason , imf loans can be a burdensome legacy from a market-based perspective . the second reason to avoid an imf intervention in europe is that lending to a potentially insolvent country has serious implications for the fund . for starters , taking the imf ’s preferred-creditor status into face-value , an imf loan would entail substituting its “ not defaultable ” debt for “ defaultable ” debt to “ defaultable defaultable ” debt with private bondholders , because the fund ’s money is mainly used to service outstanding bonds . as a result , a group of lucky bondholders would start bailed out at the expense of those that had become junior to imf debt , and it remained highly exposed to the plausible restructuring . because a “ haircut ” can be imposed solely on whatever is left of defaultable private debt , the greater the imf ’s share , the more the deeper haircut needed to resume sustainability .
beijing – consider the following : despite china ’s swelling foreign-exchange reserves – the result of persistent current-account surpluses – the market and inter-bank short-term interest rates are soaring . how did this happen , and what should us policymakers be doing about it now ? the problem , at the root , is structural . as the world ’s largest reserve issuer , china ’s broad money supply ( m2 ) is 1.5 times larger than it is in the united states , with an extensive m2/gdp ratio of around 200 % , compared to around 80 % in the us . moreover , china ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s monetary stock is relatively plentiful .
while institutions like weill cornell in qatar and the gulf university of sciences and technology in kuwait have launched innovative research and training programs that focus on these types of health challenges , much more is needed . technology and new approaches to public health are important ; but they will be ineffective unless they are tailored to meet the true needs of local people . worldwide , public-health policies are moving toward ever more multidisciplinary integration of engineering , medicine , social and management sciences , and the arab world . by not yet embracing an integrated approach , gcc institutions are risking falling behind the global norm . another problem is that the region ’s educational and skills-training programs do not incentivize sufficient systemic thinking .
given hollande ’s rock-bottom approval ratings , it is widely believed that a winning republican will be france ’s next president . i continue to believe that juppé will most likely emerge as france ’s next president . on his personal age and profile , he resembles the french version of hillary clinton , more practiced in the exercise than conquest of power . more telling , of course , will be the party primaries in november . and , though juppé remains far ahead in opinion polls , it is widely believed that the french could reject his happy version of french identity in favor of sarkozy ’s far darker views .
and , perhaps most importantly , what are the optimal trade-offs to get eu member states and european institutions to cooperate more effectively on a common european future ? some hardball political choices lie ahead : to whom parts of a framework are supposed to continue and that end ? under the banner of “ simplifying , ” ” ” ” ” ” the “ how ” gravitating toward outsourcing majority implementation to agencies to be endowed , one hopes , with greater flexibility to fulfill their specific missions . this calls for smoothly working , much more efficient interfaces among agencies and the european commission , which retains overall control over them , as well as a rigorous revision of financial regulation for the whole operation and its oft-criticized bureaucratic red tape . some hardball political choices lie ahead : to whom parts of a framework program are supposed to continue to take place , and that end ?
despair and alienation have taken hold among the younger generation of arabs who constitute well over 50 % of the region ’s population . indeed , militant islamists , hoping to recover from the destructive blows that they have absorbed since the war on terror began , are already positioning themselves to capitalize on the coming war with iraq . political repression and arab public silence should worry america and its arab allies , not reassure them , as it implies a lack of capacity for the public to channel their concerns , demands , and frustrations peacefully . indeed , militant islamists , hoping to recover from the destructive blows they have absorbed since the war on terror started , are already positioning themselves to capitalize on the coming war with iraq . far from undermining militancy and combatting terror , war is likely to play into al qaeda ’s hands , giving it a fresh lease on life .
by committing to buy more russian gas than is necessary , and , for the longer term , the eu would help to finance russia ’s military build-up , representing a direct threat to european peace . and the kremlin ’s hold on belarus would be even tighter should yamal close . a poorer ukraine would be an even easier victim of russian military aggression than it is today . moreover , germans , as well as other europeans , would not be spared the consequences . yet , nord stream 2 would make those woes inevitable .
san francisco -- it seems puzzling at first : prescription drug prices in the united states continue to rise at an alarming rate , albeit with a threat ( or promise ) of competition from cheaper generic substitutes . indeed , for example , pharmaceutical companies are paying players throughout the us health-care system to favor their more expensive drugs over a lower-priced alternatives . and those who should be behaving as watchdogs for patients are happy to run along . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . in fact , however , there is no mystery .
disaster awaits any region that is powerless to shape its own future , in which a majority of citizens feel disenfranchised . after all , the arab world has many homegrown problems , far too , including inefficient and ineffectual governance , unholy alliances , and undeveloped national capacities . though the arab world has traditionally been conservative , nearly 70 % of its citizens remain below the age of 35 , with youth suffering the highest levels of unemployment in most countries . this represents not only massive waste of resources , but also serious long-term sociopolitical problem . but , while there are many reasons to blame foreign powers on the region ’s parlous state of affairs , blaming others – or even one another – will solve nothing .
since unicef started emphasizing women ’s hiring for its polio program in 2014 , the number of female vaccinators has increased dramatically . to ensure that female vaccinators remain engaged in that struggle is critical to addressing the obstacles , whether of physical security , of social constraints , or low pay the – that they are confronting . to be sure , female vaccinators remain engaged in that struggle , it is critical to addressing the obstacles , whether on physical security , social constraints , or low pay – that they confront . since unicef began emphasizing women ’s hiring for its polio program in 2014 , the number of female vaccinators has increased dramatically . let us not forget that risks like this women take to protect everyone from a epidemic that has taken an enormous toll on global health .
america does not have an effective regulatory framework on internet platforms and lacks the political will to create one . in the us , around one-third of adult citizens have become impervious to new ideas , including demonstrable facts . a huge minority of citizens in the developed world inhabits the bubbles created by such platforms – digital false realities in which current beliefs have become more rigid and extreme . such people are easy to manipulate , a concept that former google design ethicist tristan harris calls “ brain hacking ” to ” ” ” ” ” ” holds up for ” to say . western democracies are ill-prepared to grapple with this threat .
when american troops were captured in iraq , president bush said that he expects them to be treated humanely . “ if not , ” the president had warned , “ men who mistreat prisoners will be treated like war criminals . ” president bush ’s remarks drove home the significance of a rigid adherence to the geneva conventions and the question of how war crimes trials might be convened in postwar iraq , and of those who would conduct them . american officials recently published a list of iraqis who might face trial for past crimes . america ’s plan for war crimes trials covers the violations that were committed on the eve of the current conflict .
third , most recent systems can not explain what they did or why they are recommending a particular course of action . when interpretability is important – for example , in plenty of medical applications – you need an trained person in the decision-making loop . in these “ black boxes , ” you can not simply read code to analyze what is going on , or check out if some hidden bias is involved . second , today ’s algorithms are becoming very good at pattern recognition , when they are fed up with big data sets , finding objects in youtube videos , or detecting credit card fraud , but are far less effective with unusual circumstances that do n’t fit the usual pattern , or simply when the data are scarce or some sort of “ noisy . ” to manage such cases , you need a skillful individual , with her or her experience , intuition , and social consciousness .
the second important area of progress has been reform of russia 's federation : the establishment of federal districts and reform of the federation council . these changes are controversial but a federation whose laws are not observed by some of its constituent members can not function normally ; a federation in which the laws ’ observance depends on the whim of its local administrators simply can not exist . as a result , russia today is a realistic , even if imperfect , federation . president putin 's moves to strengthen an integrated system of power are thus a logical and correct idea . the country also advanced the road of fiscal federalism : channeling every value-added tax into the federal budget , and income tax to regions , makes for a sensible system of distributing budget resources among the tiers of authority .
some of netanyahu ’s top cabinet ministers , including avigdor liberman , the hawkish defense minister , and yuval steinitz , a member of the security cabinet , were quick to express concern about an arms deal . it is plausible that trump hopes that saudi arabia ’s support can help drive forward negotiations between israelis and the palestinians . but , given trump ’s failure to take real stand on any of the core areas of disagreements – including borders , refugees , and jerusalem ’s status – the notion that he is playing some well-thought-out long play on the israel-palestine conflict seems farfetched . for israel , this is more than a little relation to trump . some of netanyahu ’s top cabinet ministers , including avigdor liberman , hawkish defense minister and yuval steinitz , a security cabinet member , were quick to express concern about an arms deal .
and weakness in the london housing market does not appear to have spread elsewhere . in fact , it is precisely this time for the northwest , residential real-estate prices show signs of accelerating rate . if this trend is tolerate , it would have far-reaching implications for the uk economy . one thing that the us can be absolutely certain about is that the administration should pursue policies to engage with the northern powerhouse , and perhaps with the “ midlands ” engine , ” too . strengthening housing markets in the north could do wonders to reverse the troubling regional inequalities that have emerged over recent decades .
new delhi – for some time now , us multinational corporations ( mncs ) have been gaming the global economy ’s rules to minimize their tax liability or even eliminate it completely . and that shift would occur at a time of rising challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . fortunately , there have been some encouraging recent signs that the one-in-one tax idea is gaining traction . and , for a while now , the independent commission on reform of international corporate taxation ( icrict ) has argued for the unitary taxation of mncs .
this includes : funding to stop transmission of maternal - and infant aids aids ; funding to help fight infections like tuberculosis that accompany aids ; and , with good program design , even fund for antiretroviral therapies . the third step must be an expanded program of research and development into new , more effective approaches to controlling the disease . with specially designed , low-cost drug combinations , and drugs applied to the poorest countries at the lowest possible cost of production , arv therapies can be scaled up to even very poor countries at an agreed-upon price . the most promising answer for the long term is a poliprotection vaccine . recent breakthroughs in basic science give hope that a vaccine can be developed in a decade or so if trillions of dollars of research and development finance mobilized both the public and the private sector .
in fact , the un estimates that up to seven in ten women globally have physical or sexual violence , or both , over the course of life . clearly , a global shift toward gender-related attitudes and standards is necessary . even those who realize it may choose to ignore it , believing that it is none of their business , or too widespread , for them to make the difference , or because it is too busy to rally . to that end , national governments have a responsibility to develop gender-sensitive policies and practices , policies that effectively discourage gender-based discrimination while preventing violence , including by punishing its offenders . and yet , when it comes to fighting women , violence against women can be hard to detect .
new mayors took office without an electoral commission ( cse ) making public 100 % of the popular vote , open violation of nicaraguan electoral laws . and , when citizens protested peacefully , this government resorted to violence to crack down on them . indeed , despite the complaints made by the episcopal conference of the catholic church , chambers of commerce , and political parties , the nse refused to authorize a recalculate recount or scrutiny by impartial observers . as a result , the fcn government reported itself winner in 109 of the 153 municipal service . though electoral fraud in managua had the most widely documented , the same modus operandi occurred across the country , affecting more than 40 municipalities .
moving from one high office in the kremlin to another in the white house ( the seat of the russian parliament ) is only mind-boggling . even if putin has found a way to retain power without amending the constitution – a possibility that was endlessly speculating about russia ’s dwindling band of democrats – the undemocratic nature of his strategy is glaringly apparent . what makes this work in fact is that , like any good kgb man , putin is a master of facades . putin himself would be a tsar regardless of himself what office is formally on his own . he has been said that presidential democracy only reinforces russia ’s political culture ’s tendency to favor a “ strong hand ” whereas a parliamentary system would allow for a more “ horizontal ” distribution of power .
the question now is whether the brotherhood will prevail , both in the streets and in egypt ’s new constitution ( which they largely wrote ) . if they do , will the west withdraw its support for egyptian democracy in the name of a “ stability ” ? that would be a mistake , but it would be a mistake , for good or bad consequences . morsi ’s timing was remarkable : the day after the victory of international acclaim for his successful efforts to broker a truce in gaza , he staged a frontal assault on egypt ’s nascent democracy . the question of what to do about iran ’s nuclear program will also return with a vengeance in january , after us president barack obama ’s second inauguration , and israel ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s general election , will demand the answer in a matter of months .
in many circles , it came to be used to describe unfettered capitalism and full freedom of choice in individual lifestyles . and it was that alternative meanings that had initially enabled politicians such as orbán and turkish leader recep tayyip erdoğan to make the case for another form of majoritarian democracy . the implication was clear : democracy on its own was not nearly enough . liberalism – the protection of minorities and individual civil liberties – had to be strengthened . the term “ liberalism , ” though it may be , does not mean the same thing for all people .
in the event , which the populist variety will seize the opportunity ? in essence , macron hopes that his agenda , if carried out on the eu level , will lift not just the french economy , but all european boats . in fact , the likelihood is that such reforms will sink all vessels , giving populists a chance . notwithstanding talk about a “ green economy ” and calls for a europe-wide investment program , macron ’s agenda is broadly neoliberal . the failed economist dani rodrik puts the appeal of populism at the forefront .
the first shock intensified globalization , bringing about much new low-wage competition . germany ’s precision instruments and fiber , for example , had lost their competitive edge at a time when japan entered the game . china is ten times japan ’s size , and japan was not easily dealing with each other , either . the second shock was eu integration , including northern and southern tsar . though globalization is a gradual process , it gained momentum if china decided to play the game .
america ’s deteriorating fiscal position is driving up the strong dollar , just as america ’s deteriorating america ’s deteriorating fiscal position following reagan ’s irresponsible tax cut of two decades ago did . in a dynamic economy where jobs are lost in one sector , new jobs are created in another . government ’s role is to facilitate the movement of labor from above . it is government ’s primary responsibility to maintain full employment . while countries may pride itself on a strong currency , a strong dollar is bad for their exports and good for imports .
defending the national interest still rallies their publics ; exercising power remains at the heart of their diplomatic calculations . to be sure , consensus , compromise , and pooling of sovereignty are the only ways to resolve many of the big issues – climate change , nuclear proliferation – that bedevil our world . but on the great issues of war , peace , and the balance of power , europeans seem trapped between an insufficiently cohesive foreign policy and uncertainty between individual countries about how to define and advance their domestic interests . by contrast , the world of rising powers , brazil , china , india , and russia , insist not only on the primacy of their national interests , but , as the failed copenhagen climate negotiations showed last december , on sovereign freedom of action just as they did . geopolitics is not anathema ; it is the bedrock of all their external actions .
despite his campaign promises , serbia ’s presidency boris tadic has so far failed to cooperate with the icty by assisting in turning over mladic ( karadzic probably not in serbia ) , who would surely testify against milosevic . one understands his trepidation : first post-milosevic prime minister , zoran djindjic , cooperated with the tribunal , paving the way for it by going to pay his life . such foot-dragging exposes the icty ’s essential weakness : unlike the nuremberg tribunal , the international community convened it during , not after , the warsaw war . one comprehenwith his trepidation : the first , post-milosevic prime minister , zoran djindjic , cooperated with the tribunal , paving the way for him to pay a measure of his life . without full control of either show or accusing , the icty lacked from the beginning of the legitimacy and authority of “ victors ’ justice . ”
to be sure , this is mostly a case of virtue arising from necessity ; as export-driven growth has slowed , the risk of social unrest over issues like air pollution , food toxicity , and corruption has soared . but the new approach also arises from the recognition that china ’s continued evolution will depend on a healthy balance between ecology and the economy . for starters , the global financial meltdown and the ensuing recession laid bare the consequences for free-market fundamentalism , thereby undercutting popular and ideological support for the neoliberal view that markets work best at shaping societal outcomes . moreover , there is a strong case for china , the embodiment of the go-for-growth movement , which signaled a policy shift toward pursuing better social and environmental outcomes , in addition to more subdued gdp gains . this shift correlates with a third , broader trend : the world ’s growing understanding of where the planet is headed environmentally , particularly when it comes to climate change .
johannesburg – my country liberalized abortion more than two decades ago , but on january 23 , 2017 , us president donald trump basically took away my right even to write the word . as a medical doctor in south africa , more than a decade later , i have provided abortion services . as part of my work , i often eschew educational materials for an ngo working on hiv prevention . but two days after america ’s presidential election in november 2016 , and more than two months before trump ’s inauguration , an ngo working for the halted distribution of a reproductive-health guide , because it included information on south africa ’s constitutionally guaranteed right to an abortion post . for young south african women , these texts offer life-saving information about issues relating to sexual and reproductive health , including birth control , sexual violence , and our country ’s progressive abortion law .
will russia ’s ’s annexation of crimea linger in the same way that the us confronts a daunting set of problems . is there an alternative to dispatching us ground troops back into the middle east ? indeed , how can america respond firmly to russian aggression without forging a long-term project of bringing it ever closer to the west ? will russia ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s annexation of crimea de facto ? how should it approach china ’s creation of not just facts on the ground , but the soil itself , in the south china sea ?
the world can not and wo n’t wilt in the face of such extremism , wherever it exists on whether or not in the us or the sahel , nigeria , iraq , or syria . indeed , since september , the us has retaken about 700 square kilometers of territory . today , the international coalition fighting isis has grown to more than 60 active members . the us has deprived the group of utilities – and resulting revenues – of 200 oil and gas facilities . the us has undermined its command structure , undermined its propaganda , abducted half of its senior leadership , squeezed its funding , damaged its supply networks , and dispersed its staff .
academic and scientific exchanges during the cold war played significant roles in enhancing american soft power . whereas some american skeptics worried that soviet researchers and kgb agents would steal american technology , they failed to notice that the visitors vacuumed up political ideas alongside scientific secrets . many of these scholars became the guiding proponents of human rights and liberalization within the ussr . unfortunately , bush did not learn that lesson . when the berlin wall came down in 1989 , hammers and bulldozers , not artillery , brought it down .
today , chinese-style - and indian-style modernity is mentally destabilizing japan . its aging population is watching resignedly as a new , younger asia , becoming as momentous for america as europe was during the cold war . after all , if china is america ’s leading economic partner in asia , and if india is america ’s leading diplomatic partner , what remains for japan ? forty years ago , japan represented the “ asian west . ” george w bush ’s approach was to view india as a “ anti-china , ” ” ” and therefore to balance the world ’s “ largest democracy against the world ’s “ oldest civilization ” .
new york – the global recession now underway is a result not just of financial panic , but also of more fundamental uncertainty about the future course of the global economy . consumers are dragging down from their homes and automobile purchases , not only because they have dealt with a blow to their wealth with falling share prices and housing values , but also because they are not knowing where to turn . should they now be at risk of buying a new car when gasoline prices could soar again ? decisions about business investment , too , are even the starker . should they risk putting their food on the table after this year ’s terrifying rise in food prices ?
the complete destruction of the polish state and its institutions made poland an ideal location for german extermination camps , in which six million polish citizens – three million jews and three million ethnic poles – were assassinated . they were german camps in occupied poland , which claimed to be denied the right to call the camps ’ “ polish extermination camps ” ( as even us president barack obama once mistakenly referred to them ) . everywhere else in german-ruled europe , the nazis had to come to terms with it , sometimes in an extraordinarily complicated manner , with local governments , if only for tactical , reasons . no trace of the polish authority had remained , either . this is one reason why poland was right to insist that the camps were not called the “ polish extermination camps ” ( as even us president barack obama once mistakenly referred to them ) .
the major suppliers to the world ’s telecoms firms are being found in china , where huawei is now chief to head with sweden ’s ericsson . in 2008 , huawei registered more us patents than any other company in the world , ending second to japan ’s panasonic in 2009 . brazil ’s embraer has revolutionized airplane manufacturing with a business model that others have imitated . india ’s tata sells cars for 75 % fewer than its european competitors . in the telecoms industry , a half-dozen emerging-market multinationals are now in the top ten .
meanwhile , the bulk of its obligations are social security and medicare , which can not be inflated away . even for distressed households that had borrowed in longer-term terms , the effects of higher inflation are uncertain . even america ’s government with debt periods of some four years would not have benefited much in the way of an inflationary surprise unless it was enormous . still , with high-unemployment ratios likely to keep nominal wage growth relatively subdued , typical troubled households might be even worse off , with higher rates of food and fuel cutting disposable income . what would help be if their nominal disposable income rose relative to their ( rigid ) debt-service obligations .
elements of the current g-20 agenda align well with china ’s domestic economic concerns , particularly regarding infrastructure . though china ’s leadership will , one hopes , lack the 2009 drama , president xi jinping will no doubt create the impression of his own making . to be sure , with turkey ’s terms at the g-20 in the helm last year , xi probably still not settled on specific priorities . unless he missed the opportunity to advance the goal of the asia-pacific trade agreement ( apec ) , while hosting last year ’s asia-pacific economic cooperation summit , he certainly will not pass a chance to ensure that the g20 agenda serves china ’s interests . but some of the potential areas of concern are already apparent .
new york – after the french revolution of 1789 , deputies in the national assembly who supported the revolutionary gains sat on the left , while those who opposed them and hankered after the old order of the monarchy and the church congregated on the right . hence the political terms that have been “ the left ” and the “ right . ” emmanuel macron prides himself on being neither the right nor the left . many commentators on french presidential ballot have pointed out that these categories no longer fit contemporary politics in france – or , indeed , elsewhere . marine le pen , whose national front is linked to the far right , disagree : to her , macron , who was a minister in a socialist government , is a leftist one .
but the likely failures are just as noteworthy : the problem of insolvent banks ’ insolvent banks is worse now than it was in the aftermath of the crisis . as a result , it is likely to be long periods of time before we can judge the success of anything approaching the american congress ultimately enacts . we should toast the likely successes : certain form of an financial-transaction safety commission ( isds ) will be founded ; more derivative trading moved to exchanges and cleanup houses from murky “ bespoke ” markets ; and some of the worst-case mortgage practices will be restricted . moreover , it looks likely that the outrageous fees charged on any debit transaction – a sort of tax that goes little for any public purpose but to fill banks ’ coffers – will be curbed . but the likely failures are just as noteworthy : the too-big-to-fail banks ’ problem is worse today than it was before the crisis .
to be sure , a majority of french and german citizens identify as europeans , unlike uk citizens , who identify as british – or even as english , irish , scotland , or the welsh . but , when it comes to security and defense , these affinities are reversed : france and britain are extremely likeminded , while germany , owing to its own history , has long shied away from martial pursuits of any kind . to be sure , a majority of french and german citizens identify as europeans , opposed to the uk citizens who identify as british – or even as english , irish , scotland , or the welsh . this is one reason why germany ’s and french critiques generally focus on the bloc ’s fate , whereas the british often strike at the european project itself . of course , there are also differences between britain and france with respect to how they engage with the united states and nato .
the agreement ’s long-term implications stand in sharp contrast both to obama ’s february 2010 budget proposal and to the republican-controlled house of representatives ’ counter-proposal . obama wanted to continue the 2010 tax rate for all taxpayers , except those with annual incomes above $ 250,000 . while the new tax law is commonly described as a us fiscal stimulus , it is more accurate to say that it avoids large , immediate fiscal contraction . by agreeing to limit current tax rates to just two years , the tax package puts the national debt at an end of the decade ( relative to what it would have been with obama ’s budget ) at some $ 2 trillion , or almost 10 % of gdp , in 2020 . obama wanted to continue the 2010 tax rate permanently for all taxpayers , except those with annual incomes above $ 250,000 .
car spending ground to a halt , up until the government-backed stimulus programs in many countries revived it . however , schemes like scrapping old , fuel-inefficient automobiles simply led many people to reset their purchases . the crisis also exposed the extent of america ’s massive overcapacity in america ’s retail sector , with estimates forcing at least one-fifth of america ’s shopping malls . the automobile market rescued in 2009 at the expense of sales in 2010 and subsequent years . the response to the crisis will be a hastening of movement toward on-line purchasing , in which physical location is no longer a preeminent component of shopping decisions .
indeed , confucianism became the formal ideology of the chinese state two centuries old before the birth of christ . confucianism was essentially a philosophical justification of a government by a benevolent bureaucracy under a virtuous ruler . as one confucian classic put it : possessing virtue gives a ruler the people . virtue ensured harmony between man and nature , as well as obedience within a stratified society . possessing the people is given him a territory , and he is close to them .
the most realistic scenario now is the three-front war pitting israel against syria , hamas and hezbollah . but a syrian-israeli peace would drive a wedge between syria and iran , riting down hezbollah ’s arms-control lines , while enabling the vital task of stabilizing lebanon into a viable state of affairs . the only way to extricate syria from its deadly iranian embrace is by drawing it into a regional peace scheme . a dam-conversion is not only possible ; it is also vitally important for regional peace . alas , precisely because of their isolation , and the ba’athist regime ’s paranoiac nature , syrians are unlikely to meet america ’s condition in terms of peace talks : abandoning their current rogue alliances and getting their marriage with terror .
for much of thailand ’s long economic boom of two decades , wealth resided mostly in bangkok ’s metropolitan-led metropolitan region , boon to the burgeoning urban middle class , but deeply denigration of rural majority rule . thailand ’s farms have become increasingly estranged from the country ’s urban elite . while rural populations had more than enough food to eat , their economic opportunities and upward mobility were constrained by a shoddy education system and docile state-run media , which fed them , soap operas , and formal messaging . thailand ’s farms had become increasingly estranged from the country ’s urban elite . for one to become a somebody , all roads led to bangkok and its prestigious sac schools and universities .
by setting an example of coexistence , they can calm alawites ’ fears in syria that deserting assad would facilitate the rise of an anti-alawite sunni regime . the delegates have joined with a number of members of sunni opposition – denounced assad , and denounced their unwavering support for a united , democratic country that offers full citizenship to all syrians , regardless of sect lines or ethnic background . if the alawites and sunnis living abroad can rise to power against assad ’s regime , so could their counterparts in syria . the delegates – joined by a few members of the sunni opposition – have denounced assad , declaring their unwavering support to a united , democratic country that offers full citizenship to all syrians , no matter how sect might be established or its ethnic background . by setting the example of coexistence , they can calm alawites ’ fears in syria that deserting assad would facilitate the rise of an iranian-sunni regime .
in the ndb ’s case , each of the brics owns an equal share , with each contributing $ 10 billion to the initial subscribed capital . china announced its plans for the aiib soon after the signing of the ndb articles of agreement in 2014 . by contrast , china is the aiib ’s largest shareholder by a wide margin , holding a 26.6 % stake , compared to india ’s 7.7 % and russia ’s 6 % . while equitable shareholding was not china ’s preferred route , it did not force the matter . in the meantime , brazil and south africa have made no capital available on a date , despite being designated as “ founding members . ”
trump ’s predecessor , barack obama , took a principled stand in american dealings with venezuela , imposing sanctions to rein in rogue behavior , a policy that drew broad bipartisan support . the trump administration needs to stay the course , especially as lower oil prices have weakened the venezuelan government ’s hand . indeed , rather than bashing latin america , the us needs to show that it can be a steady , principled friend that wo n’t be swayed by corrupt bribes of any kind . well , on both counts , america should have said no : while aid is transparent , the symbolism of a rich country that receives money from an impoverished neighbor with millions of its suffering makes it hardly attractive . and it is particularly bizarre that even as us policy toward mexico has greatly increased the odds that an african-american chávet-type character became president there , us officials are circulating positive publicity on a government that makes caricature of catastrophic governance .
indeed , the political imperative is as great as the constitutional one it is . europeans , after all , are committed to democracy worldwide . but in the european way of thinking , we need to spread democracy pacifically , by persuasion , not gun force . europe can not preach cultural pluralism and practice constitutional imperialism . a similar solution , indeed , is to be found for the european constitution .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . as physicians with special training in forensic evaluations , the us has traveled to tijuana to meet with juan , in the request of his lawyer . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has any interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
the implications of trump ’s talk extend beyond america ’s policy in afghanistan . trump honors what india has already done , but urging him to do even more , by exploiting his vast earnings from exports to the us , in order to help rebuild afghanistan ’s economy . at any rate , the region ’s potential for us-india security cooperation appears to have been limented during his may visit to saudi arabia and his july visit to poland , of what one might call the “ trump doctrine . ” he has also suggested that america will work with india to create indo-pacific security zones . the address has also sharpened contours – already limned during his may visit to saudi arabia and his july visit to poland , of what one might call the trump doctrine .
it organized the postwar international order : the united nations , the bretton woods institutions , the marshall plan , japan ’s reconstruction , and , more . under that order , the rest of the world closed much of the vast technological , high-tech , educational , and infrastructural gap with the us . today , global growth has had a larger economy in absolute terms than america ’s , although still only around one-fourth the size in per capita terms . as the us economists would say , global growth was “ convergent , ” ” ” meaning that poorer countries were catching up . the us share of the world economy represented by american industry had declined by around half ( to around 16 % now ) .
of course , achieving this goal , not to mention the other sdgs , will be expensive , accounting for an estimated $ 3.3-4.5 trillion per year . given budget pressure in many donor countries , official development assistance is on the decline , and it can not be counted upon to fill this need . indeed , as the international panel on sustainable development finance points out , the spectrum of funding for future international development frameworks must be wider than ever before . and , as the sdgs recognize , there are resilient infrastructure and incentivized innovation . focusing on corporate social responsibility might help ensure that the benefits of industrialization are shared , whereas the benefits of energy – and resource-efficiency – could help to safeguard sustainability .
to be sure , most taxes imply heavy “ excess burden ” : the cost far exceeds the value of the revenue that was raised because of potential taxpayers ’ myriad attempts at evasion and avoidance . in fact , a tax on oil does not impose excess burdens . for example , if high oil prices were the result of taxes that were then reallocated to oil-users , they would be unambiguously good . shifts to more energy-efficient means for transportation ease congestion . in contrast , it implies excess benefits .
you buy low-carbohydrate products , energy and nutritional bars , vitamin a – and mineral-fortified foods and beverages , soy foods , and practically anything with a healthy health claim . sales of lesser-evil and functional foods have also done well in recent years , bringing in roughly $ 85 billion in american sales in 2004 . if you routinely buy such foods , you are among lohas ( the lifestyles of health care and sustainability ) consumers , the areas of the health-care industry that run its cherished demographic base . you buy low-carbohydrate products , energy , and nutritional bars , vitamin a – and mineral-fortified foods and beverages , soy foods and practically anything with a full health claim . so-called “ functional ” foods or near-techno-foods ” are those that manufacturers add omega-3 oils , artificial sweeteners , indigestible starches , cholesterol reducers , soy or milk ( whey ) protein , phytochemicals , and other ingredients to enable them to take on “ well-qualified ” health claims permitted by the us food and drug administration ( fda ) .
all of this recalls some powerful arguments made in the nineteenth century about national integration and unification . in particular , the two countries whose problems drove much of the need for twentieth-century european integration , germany and italy , were culturally and politically highly diverse . the common market was defended at the start of the gains that followed from increased trade . the case for capital-market integration , and then for the single currency , was similar . in particular , the two countries whose problems drove much of the twentieth-century need for european integration , germany and italy , were culturally and politically highly diverse .
more recently , the obama administration has proposed a $ 300 million fund to catalyze federal pay-for-performance contracts . metrics are an essential feature of pay-for-performance contracts , and they must become an indispensable feature of every government program . according to a recent study , impact investing in the u.s. would not exist without american support and partnership with the federal government through grants , loans and guarantees . more recently , the obama administration proposed a $ 300 million fund to catalyze federal pay-for-performance contracts . in a sib , government contracts with outward provider to achieve a measurable social goal ( like reducing recidivism among juvenile offenders ) ; private impact investors finance program ’s upfront cost ; and the government promises a return to them if the program ’s targets are achieved .
china is keen to emphasize its role as one of key us allies in the struggle against fascism and imperialism in wwii , and increasingly view western ignorance of its wartime role as unacceptable . their presence indicates that , beyond parade ’s martial rhetoric and symbolism , a wider , more complicated story of china ’s wartime experience is emerging . but ignorance in the west of china ’s wartime sacrifices , about 14 million dead , and of its significant contribution to holding down over a half-million japanese troops also reflect the partisan history of the war that had been taught in china itself . under mao ’s rule , the only acceptable narrative was that the ccp was leading the opposition against japan . to be sure , foreign assistance – including america ’s key role in the invasion of china – had no place in this story .
wealth creation matters , but not until it recoups the destruction of wealth that preceded it . but are these newfound wealth effects really all that are being wrought ? yes , the us stock market is now at an all-time high , with only currently in the current-account surplus . in real terms , the s & p 500 is still 20 % below its january 2000 peak . similarly , whereas case-shiller home price index now stands at 10.2 % in the year ending march 2013 , she still remains 28 % below its 2006 peak .
indeed , both the socialists ’ voters began to distinguishing themselves not from what they are , but from what they are not , touting a line , about neither macron nor mélenchon ” ( the referendum of the far-left jean-luc mélenchon ) . yet that distinction may not be as powerful as the socialists may have believed it to be . after all , it was their center-left voters who got macron elected . and they knew what they voted for : whatever policies he had implemented thus far consisted in his campaign platform . the left is deeply divided on virtually all issues – europe , secularism , education , entrepreneurship , and much else , making it immensely difficult to identify what , if any , leftist ” policies nowadays .
there is even less risk in saudi arabia itself , where king abdullah recently vowed over $ 130 billion in stimulus spending . syria ’s president bashar al-assad ’s president , bashar al-assad , has more domestic aid than the recent media accounts for the unrest in the country ’s troubled south , suggesting . the brutal post-election crackdown in 2009 demonstrated the regime ’s determination to maintain order by any means necessary . the few saudi demonstrations seem populated almost entirely by a minority shia who find little sympathy between majority sunnis and foreign construction workers petitioning iran on higher wages and improved occupational conditions . nor does iran ’s government appear to face real danger .
mexico city – four central american countries , guatemala , el salvador , honduras , and nicaragua , among others , are struggling , still burdened by the legacy of the past century ’s ’s ’s ’s wars . they are resilient yet incomplete democracies , challenged by endemic poverty , endemic violence , and corruption – and all but forgotten by the international community . nicaragua , it should be noted , is not entirely in the same category as central america ’s other three . like them , it has suffered through a brutal and protracted civil war ; unlike , however , successive us administrations have constructed institutions capable of promoting a reasonable degree of territorial control and domestic security . now , there is reason to be hopeful that these countries ’ prospects might improve .
moreover , new popular movements in algeria , sudan , lebanon , and iraq have absorbed important lessons from the 2011 uprisings . ten governments in the region already have debt-to-gdp ratios well above 75 % . as growth has slowed , spending on public benefits has waned , fueling economic insecurity . even where fiscal adjustment barely started , the old rent-distributing model has become unaffordable , with populists turning against regimes that appear unable or unwilling to make a convincing reformist effort . no longer content with mere displacing aging autocrats , protesters are also targeting key components of deep state and security forces .
us president donald trump ’s administration , however , is hurling this carefully calibrated system into disarray . it is reflected in its pressure on european countries not just to spend more on defense in order to fulfill their nato obligations , a valid us demand , but also that they must continue to channel that spending toward us-made arms systems . it is also apparent in his bellicose threats against america ’s purported enemies . there are ample examples of trump ’s predilection for power . far from displaying a capacity to persuade , as the title of his book the art of the deal might imply , trump is trying to use raw power , alone to force his “ america first ” agenda on the rest of the world .
using 200 quantitative variables and factors to score 174 countries on a quarterly basis , we identified multiple countries in which investors lack risk – and opportunities . as we saw in the recent crises , private risk taking and debt-related debts is socialized when one crisis occurs . so , even as public deficits and debt remain low prior to a crisis , they may rise sharply after one erupts . governments that seemed fiscally sound suddenly emerged as insolvent . a comprehensive assessment of a country ’s macro investment risk requires looking systematically at stockpiles and flows of the national account to capture all of its dangers , including risk in the financial system and the real economy , as well as broader risk issues .
i never participated in the concert in the manchester arena , but that seems to be a big venue for the city . in recent years , i have heavily involved in the policy aspects of this great city ’s economic revival . i have chaired the economic advisory group to the greater manchester united council , and then served as chair of the city ’s growth commission , which advocated for the “ northern powerhouse ” ” a program to link the british north ’s cities to a cohesive economic vessel . subsequently , i had briefly joined david cameron ’s government to help implement the early stages of a north powerhouse . abedi ’s barbarity , by contrast , killed at least 22 people , many of them children .
nile delta – some 60 miles north of cairo ’s tahrir square – the epicenter of the 2011 egyptian uprising , a secondary-school student calling attention to that prison . a deformed box of concrete packaged with dilapidated classrooms , schools are pockmarked with age and neglect . one trained teacher in the sleepy nile delta village morbidly quips that it doubles as a morgue . “ we never saw a revolution here , ” as he said several months ago , withholding his name for fear of losing the job . “ a lot of hope that we had now been dead … it was killed ” was killed .
the plan itself recognizes that its adoption implies another “ lost decade ” of economic activity , and will weaken israel ’s debt sustainability , thereby perpetuating a crisis in which all parties are willing to end . unfortunately , the governing council ’s already-deep projected fall of real gnp is emphatically optimistic , for it relies on a number of implausible and/or controversial assumptions . at first , the pre-imposed fiscal multipliers , the sum by which gnp will decline as each dollar of fiscal contraction – used for gnp – assume that a single dollar contraction in the primary fiscal deficit will be associated with a $ 1.34 contraction of gnp . yet the recently initiated fiscal plan , endorsed by the 2017-2026 board , which inevitably shapes the foundation of debt-restructuring discussions , seems to ignore that circularity . the five flaws in the board ’s fiscal plan stand out .
removing that constraint might endanger the bank ’s triennial rating , but it will render it more effective . i propose that the world ’s open societies form alliances with a dual purpose : fostering both the development of open societies across nations , and the evolution of a global open society . the first involves development aid ; the second , strengthening of international institutions like the imf and the world development agency . such an alliance requires cooperation among not only governments , but civil society as well . such control tends to undermine the structure of open societies .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . accra , planned parenthood , a vital source of sexual-and reproductive health services in the united states , has just been forced to retreat from the federal title x family-planning programs that support low-income women . the ruling , responding to a new rule by us president donald trump ’s administration , forbidding title x clinics from referring to abortions will cost planned parenthood roughly $ 60 million annually .
in both kosovo and bosnia and herzegovina , job creation was thought central to post-conflict peacekeeping efforts . yet post-conflict employment policies almost always neglect so-called “ horizontal inequalities . ” given these failings , it is not surprising that employment policies ’ net effects tend to be very little relative to the magnitude of the problem . for starters , employment policies have done little to reduce the severe regional imbalances and cross-regional discrimination that persisted in bosnia and herzegovina after the war erupted in the 1990s . still , post-conflict employment policies almost always neglect so-called horizontal inequalities .
seen from this reflection , japan will firmly uphold basic norms such as freedom , democracy , and human rights as untethered values , and , by working hand to share such values , hun sen ’s flag of “ proactive contributions ” to peace , ” and contribute to the world ’s peace and prosperity more than ever before . japan will make even greater headway on the struggle against poverty , which also serves as a hotbed of violence , providing opportunities for medical services , education , and self-reliance to every part of the world . the us will engrave in our hearts the past when japan ends up being a challenger to the international order . on this reflection , japan will firmly uphold basic norms such as freedom , democracy , and human rights as untethered values , and , by working hand in hand with countries that share such values , hun sen ’s flag of “ proactive contributions ” to peace , ” and contribute to world peace and prosperity more than ever before . in doing so , prosperity is the very foundation of peace that offers us an opportunity .
although they constitute just 20 % of the saudi population , they make up a majority of -75 % – of the population in the oil-rich region . in saudi arabia , shia are at the forefront of those welcoming democratic change and participation . saudi arabia ’s shia have suffered discrimination in their occupations : in the army , in high government positions , the diplomatic corps , and , most significantly , in the state-owned oil industry , where they have been excluded from the 1980 ’s . in bahrain , the shia who make up 75 % of the population have been keen on the reforms initiated by king salman hamad al-khalifah . this systematic neutering of shia in saudi arabia amounts to the same slain of the wahhabi religious establishment , and the support of the indigenous people in the oil-rich region .
by pooling resources , the fund created economies of scale for life-saving drugs like anti-malarial bed nets and anti-retroviral drugs . then , by working with nearly 100 countries , the fund had built up massive supply chains to deliver the goods . in the process , aids deaths fell by more than 50 % from their peak , and malaria deaths had declined by about 50 % since the turn of the millennium . now , the fund has $ 14 billion in new funding to continue this work . the replenishment does vitally important news , first and foremost , because of the sheer number of lives it will help save .
a depression can be cured , but only by providing a patient with a positive vision of the future . one ca n't be cured of depression , but only by giving a patient a positive vision of the future . the right-centrist parties , the union of center-right forces , and yabloko , do have such a vision , and people know it . higher education , it seems , lower voter participation : among those who never vote , percentage of college-educated people is twice as high as that of people without a higher education . alienated for so long , the country 's brightest people wash their hands of politics .
that is true for actions that betray individual nations , temporary alliances , or more durable alliances like nato . this last point has been at the heart of the issues in iraq . augmenting the us and british troops with additional “ western ” forces would not , especially on this early stage , alter a fundamental perception of that intervention , both in the arab world and beyond , is changing . only an explicit , up-front approval of a reformed un security council can confer the legitimacy and international backing that military action – except on clear self-defense – will require . but broad international support will not be forthcoming , so long as military operations are perceived as certain form of western neo-imperialism .
second , we measured the effects of natural selection by noting that there were women who were shorter , and first gave birth , when younger had more children . that left an estimated 95 % variation to explain the effects of culture and individual choice . but genes are only one of many factors that influence height and age at first birth . personal-choice , nutrition , income levels , education , and religious affiliation all go into the mix . when we projected how much variation among individuals could be attributed to biology , the answer was less than 5 % .
sofia – at a time when europe ’s ongoing debt crisis is fracturing public faith in the continent ’s underlying polity and economic institutions , one would expect europe ’s leaders to reinforce as many unifying symbols as they can . ( the united states supreme court , by contrast , receives roughly 10,000 petitions per year . ) instead , they have enabled one of the post-world war ii gems of european integration , the european court of human rights ( echr ) , to come under threat just as much . unlike the european union , long beleaguered by its democratic deficit , strasbourg-based echr is , if anything , too well loved . after all , unlike the european union , long beleaguered by its democratic deficit , strasbourg-based echr is , if anything , too well loved .
in a world of competing demands , it is possible that corrupt governments may seem to serve vital purposes . one deploys soldiers to combat terrorism ; another provides critical sources of energy , or access to feedstock . as security expert sarah chayes argues in a anti-corruption fight , the masses of essays that the british government would publicize to accompany the summit , corruption is today structured practice . for the sake of identifying the best approach under every specific circumstances , governments need to analyze the problem more effectively , which means improving intelligence collection and data . for starters , leaders must inevitably contend with tough tradeoffs .
willingly or not , some may seek recourse to inflation or administrative measures aimed at trapping domestic savings into state-financed financing and keeping bond rates low ( what economists describe as financial repression ) or , ultimately , to outright debt restructuring . in the end , they are different methods for forcing current and future generations to extract the burden of the accumulated debt . all three unorthodox remedies have been applied to past debt crises . is it preferable for them to adjust in full ? after all , is it preferable to adjust in full ?
george h.w. bush was faulted ( and faulted himself ) for failing to have what he called “ vision thing . ” when pressed by his staff to talk more boldly and expansively , he responded , “ it ’s just not me . ” in the aftermath of the shock of the september 2001 terrorist attacks , his son , george w. bush , put up a much more ambitious vision . sometimes leaders like to think that vision can solve most of their problems , but wrong choices , or an over-ambitious vision , can actually do harm . george h.w. bush was faulted ( and faulted himself ) for not having what he called “ vision thing . ”
trump ’s foreign-policy priorities will inevitably clash with those of states like california , which has embraced an initiative to spur climate-minded technological innovations . and the private sector has come around to viewing renewable energy as the potentially profitable business . in the us , wind power costs have fallen by two-thirds since 2009 , and utility-scale solar energy costs have declined by 85 % . furthermore , according to a recent american department of energy ’s energy report , the us rate of jobs in wind and solar industries grew by 32 % and 25 % , respectively , in 2016 alone . and , fortunately for the planet , other global powers are not joining trump in backing down from their climate commitments .
already , spillover effects from trade and financial-transmission channels are starting to take their toll : china ’s gdp growth rate in the second quarter of 2012 has averaged 7.6 % , reflecting a marked slowdown ; and india ’s annualized growth rate is expected to drop to roughly 6 % this year . in fact , china ’s potentially strong domestic-demand base , and the ample room for policy maneuvers , can help to avoid a hard landing . it has already loosened monetary policy aggressively and can employ additional fiscal stimulus . but policy mismanagement and structural weaknesses in both the financial sector and local governments could undermine efforts to isolate its growth drivers . moreover , if conditions in europe continue to deteriorate , asia could suffer more severe .
capitalizing on historical data compiled by the economic historian angus maddison , they show how other east asian countries experience deceleration of economic growth after their per capita gdp has reached around $ 11,000 in purchasing-power-parity terms , relative to the constant 1990 dollar prices of the us dollar , or about $ 17,000 in constant 2005 american dollar prices . for example , in the five years after japan reached that level , its economy was growing at an average annual rate of 3.6 % . in south korea , growth slumped to 5.8 % , and in 2013 . in south korea , growth slumped to a staggering 5.8 % . given that china is projected to cross the same threshold sometime this year , many believe that its average annual rate of annual gdp growth over the next five years would fall well below 7 % .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on its current course for many years to come . after all , iran and america have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . pompeo ’s primaries against obama ’s famous cairo speech , “ a fresh start , ” ” ” is that he included the united states ’ public admission to the region ’s past missteps . in contrast to the trump administration , obama and his advisers believed that there was much to be gained by acknowledging difficult political truths , even when yielding on a radical turn of course .
giving the big countries permanent seats on the ecb also makes it easier for their politicians to control the ecb through the appointments process . it is far more difficult to appoint a political puppet to the governing board in an open competition system than under the current arrangements . some of the best people serving the ecb – or , for that matter , who has served in the past – come from small countries . giving the ecb the big countries permanent seats on the ecb has also made it easier for its politicians to control the ecb through the appointments process . some of the best people serving the ecb – or who have served in the past – come from small countries .
but labor costs have risen much faster in the south , the resulting differential cost increases , which can not be addressed as long as the currency union endures . indeed , excessive wage deflation is likely to have a negative effect on productivity . skilled labor is likely to emigrate more quickly , along with extreme austerity , falling prices , and high unemployment – and the resulting likelihood of social tension – are not exactly conducive to investment , innovation , or labor mobility . against this background , productivity growth whether through technical breakthroughs , improved resource allocation , or productive investment is just as important a variable to southern economies as wage restraint is . as long as that internal divergence persists , the euro crisis can not be fully addressed , because current-account deficits and/or high unemployment will continue to stalk southern european countries , perpetuating worries about sovereign-debt and commercial banks .
likewise , the established or state church is england ’s church , created nearly 500 years ago , when jacques viii decided that the catholic pope should not adjudicate his marriage . of course , that does not mean that no single identity is asserted . indeed , key elements of modern british identity all seem to belong to england rather than to the composite entity . former prime minister john major called the uk “ the land of long shadows on cricket due , ” warm beer , invincible green suburbs , dog lovers , and pools fillers and , as george orwell ’s saying , ‘ old maids bicycling up to holy communion through the morning mist ’ … ” an institution called english heritage curates the past , from prehistoric monuments of stonehenge to the old homeland houses celebrated in televised costume dramas .
that posture is making alliances far more partnerships of equals than it has for the past six decades . both abe and obama are focused on creating a durable structure for peace for all of asia , and abe has been keen to enable japan to play a more active role in this regard and in supporting its allies . that bold policy initiative , in the face of the japanese public ’s deeply ingrained skepticism toward any surge of military significance , has no doubt endeared abe to us diplomats and military strategists , as well as has secured both open and at times tacit acceptance from japan ’s asian neighbors . increased military cooperation with the us is especially important now , owing to american worries about many of its other strategic partners ’ readiness . in america ’s view , the re-interpretation of article 9 of japan ’s “ peace constitution ” that abe pledged – thereby permitting japan ’s self-defense forces to help its allies under attack and assisting america and other allies in meeting their pledges to secure asia ’s peaceful transition – has been long overdue .
indeed , notwithstanding the iranian regime ’s lack of transparency , khamenei ’s health problems are its public knowledge . iran is at a pivotal moment in its history – and , as long lines of citizenry eager to cast its votes clearly show , iranians know it . with khamenei having served as president , before rising to iran ’s supreme leader , political and religious leadership positions , it is easy to see that , as conservative candidate raisi , to succeed him , could become khamenei ’s successor . khamenei himself recently acknowledged that the probability that his successor , should be named in the near future , was “ not low . ” the matter of who occupying the presidency during this transition certainly is not inconsequential .
moreover , north korea ’s evolving nuclear weapons , its economic fragility , and uncertainty about its very future as a sovereign state are generating deep anxiety among its neighbors . yet , despite all of these obstacles , there are signs that momentum is building for greater regional cooperation in overcoming them . the recent trilateral summit by china , south korea , and japan is the fourth such meeting to take place , in addition to meetings , taking place at international gatherings like asean summits . sadly , however , the leaders of china , south korea , and japan have not made any of the major breakthroughs that will build on the most sensitive security issues that divide them . but this lack of quick achievements is not to make such efforts futile .
for over 20 years , this mutually beneficial codependency has served both countries well in compensating to their outsize saving imbalances , while satisfying their respective growth agendas . but here the past should not be viewed as prologue . in particular , china has made the conscious strategic choice to modify its growth strategy . a seismic shift follow , and america ’s recent fiscal follies may well represent a tipping point . and , of course , hard-line middle-class american consumers benefit immensely from low-cost chinese imports , the walmart influence , which enables them to stretch their budgets in an era of unrelenting job pressure and real incomes .
other long-term bonds , both government bonds and corporate bonds , would suffer similar declines . ten-year us treasury bonds now yield just 2.5 % , or are now down . with the current inflation-indexed ten-year inflation rate above 2 % , and markets anticipating a similar inflation rate over the longer term ( as measured by five-year five-year-forward inflation expectations ) , yields on ten-year us treasury bonds should be above 4 % . a rate of a rate of ten-year yields rate to 4 % would lower the value of such bonds substantially . reaching for yield has also narrowed credit spreads between highly leveraged bonds and riskier domestic and emerging-market bonds .
without that confidence , credit wo n’t flow , and economic activity will be constrained . moreover , because financial institutions ’ assets have been bought mainly with borrowed money , credit shortages aggravate their need to deleverage . because capital raising is difficult and expensive , they deleverage by lending less . but america ’s macroeconomic weakness now goes beyond a cutback in credit supply . falling employment lowers wage and salary incomes .
enabling america to sell its risky financial products and engage in speculation around the world may have served its firms well , even when it imposed large costs on others . today , the risk is that new keynesian doctrines will be used and misused to serve some of the same interests . have heart changed or merely a change of strategy ? have those who pushed the financial sector to the brink of deregulation ten years ago learned their lesson from it ? or will they simply push vigorously for cosmetic reforms – the minimum required to justify the mega-trillion dollar bailouts ?
wage restraint and total productivity gains have improved competitiveness , eroding exports . and now that lower oil prices and a five-percentage-point drop in unemployment are bolstering consumption , recovery is spreading into other sectors . to be sure , the precise policy approach taken in one country can not be imitated elsewhere . wage restraint and declining productivity gains have improved competitiveness , thereby undermining exports . and now that lower oil prices and a five-percentage-point drop in unemployment are bolstering consumption , recovery is spreading to other sectors .
because such a scheme would imply losses for bondholders , substantial official muscle and peer pressure is needed . but gaining time for a more orderly resolution , mitigating contagion , and reducing the magnitude of eventual depreciation actually adds to a superior result . the third component is the practice of bondholders ’ suasion to achieve maximum participation , obtain binding pre-commitments , and eliminate free riders . and , while credit-rating agencies might still regard a vienna-type outcome as default , talmudic sages show us why a more thoughtful classification requires one . accordingly , under this model – and despite initial pressure – bondholders ’ behavior could be deemed truly voluntary .
as a result , a market economy encourages specialization : we have become extremely good at a narrow set of skills or products , and we exchange them for the millions of other things that we have zero clue as to do or to make . as a result , we end up doing spectacularly few things and buying anything different from others . every town has grocery stores , the beauty parlors , gas stations , and film theaters that serves local communities . this observation is as true of the individual as it is about space , whether the eu is a neighborhood , city , a state or province , or a country . in some sense , a market economy is a gift-exchange scheme ; money just tracks the value of what we give to one another .
another consortium began to build multi-billion dollar oil and gas pipelines from azerbaijan , through georgia to turkey and the west . oil and gas pipelines are transportation conduits , rather than actual employers . these investments , however , have brought no economic trickle down to the us . moreover , georgian reward the us for providing a strategic export route to the west in favor of azeri oil was not for dollars , but a policy of diplomatic insurance -- that is , western , especially the us , concerns about the safety of its pipelines . people here are survival on a few dollars a day .
this image bears no relation to what can be heard in political speeches or read in business newspapers . policymakers warn of the challenge posed by asia ’s “ tiger economies . ” japanese shares are valued at half of their 1990 prices . even in hong kong , where shares recently hit new highs , they are stuck at little more than 10 percentage points above their early 1994 peak . in the same three year period , prices in wall street and in europe shrank by 60 % or more .
in the shorter run , the single market should extend to services , and free-trade arrangements should be introduced on a regular basis or bilaterally with major trading partners like the united states . austerity should be relaxed , especially in fiscally stronger core economies , and essential resources should be devoted to boosting youth employment and investment in small , medium-size firms in over-indebted governments . strong central institutions , in charge of a directly elected parliament , are needed to coordinate fiscal and economic policies . national banking systems should be unified , in order to separate private-sector losses from sovereign debt , with centralized supervisory and resolution authorities , also a deposit-insurance scheme that forming the heart of europe ’s banking union . germany ’s reluctance to take the lead on these issues partly reflects historical reverence , which is always difficult to overcome .
china , just when it is celebrating with martial pomp the sixtieth anniversary of mao ’s establishment of the “ people ’s republic ” constitutes one of the most intriguing current cases of the nation evincing “ short sightedness ” toward its own history . china , for its part , has much to show for itself in its own recent history . just consider the massive access to educational education of its vast rural population , in contrast to its “ democratic rival , ” which is why china ’s pride nowadays is legitimate . in sixty years , a weak and divided country , one torn apart by wars both internal and external , is about to become the world ’s second most powerful economy . china ’s insolent prosperity , though far from being divided equally , is china ’s relative political stability , even if the regime ’s opening remains strictly limited , is undeniable and deserving of reverence .
but , without its own currency-issuing central bank , scotland would forego seigniorage ( profits from central-bank operations that typically benefit national treasuries ) . perhaps more important , it would lack the lender of last resort capable of stabilizing its banking and financial system during crises . all things considered that an independent scotland would be best served by issuing its own national currency from the start , empowering the national bank of scotland to establish interest rates on the basis of domestic economic conditions . at the same time , by permitting exchange-rate flexibility , this approach would enable the central bank to avoid the twin ills that emerge in a currency union : undervaluation that produces inflationary pressure and overvaluation demanding wrenching internal devaluations ( driving down real wages ) . perhaps more importantly , it would have no lender of last resort capable of stabilizing the banking and financial system in a crisis .
while the transition was bound to be painful , russia ’s anti-corruption epidemic caused more political damage than the economic side effects of the reform process . government , and therefore economic reform , will pay for that neglect at the polls . in fact , corruption blights reform throughout the ex-communist world . the government ’s tolerance of bribery and racketeering enabled its opponents to declare “ mob ” grabbing the gains of economic change . value-subtracting heavy industries shrunk ; services expanded to just over 50 % of gdp , and the private sector producing nearly 60 % of russia ’s output .
many people voted in favor of him by default , both now and when he defeated miloševic in 2000 . he is neither corrupt nor war criminal , neither aggressive in his utterance and behavior , nor most likely to bend the rule of law for the sake of personal power . though he does not make him any loss of major moral doctrines for power , koštunica is not the unassuming lawyer he once was . he crams his party with mediocrities , selects mostly of bad advisers and does not listen to the rare good ones . it is conceivable that his image as right-of-center democrat conceals a reactionary yearning for serbia to restore its pre-wwii montenegro and for the orthodox church to play a major role in political and social life .
or the yellow vests may be turning out to lack that boldness and settle for the paltry pleasure of being seen on tv after them . they will allow themselves to be intoxicated by the sight of the luminaries and specialists in la france d’en haut ( elite of france ) seeming to eat from arms and hanging on their every word . the yellow vests must choose : democratic reinvention or an updated version of national leagues of national socialist leagues ; a willingness to repair or a impulse to destroy . they will careening out into the darkest side of the political night , with the end of the dustbin of history in which they can rub elbows with those further yellows , early-twentieth-century “ yellow socialists ” of proto-fascist syndicalist pierre biétry . but if the yellow vests permit passionate hatred to win over genuine fraternity and choose wrecking over reforming , they yield only chaos , not improvement , the lives of humble and vulnerable .
a former turkish diplomat in iran has described a business climate in stark terms : “ it ’s as if iranians preference a lose/lose outcome to a win/win one in their dealings with their foreign partners . ” what lessons can be drawn from turkish firms ’ failure in iran ? according to vice president al gore , they are extremely complicated to do business in iran . others suggest that iran ’s almost non-existent banking system is the culprit . still others blame america ’s “ invisible hand , ” supposedly designed to worry that iran and turkey might become too powerful .
moreover , we must invest in research and development of low-cost diabetes treatments , as well as diagnostic tools that fit low-resource settings . essential medicines and technologies for diagnosing and treating heart disease , cancer , and respiratory ailments also are also substantially less available and proportionally more expensive for low - and middle-income people than for those in the rich world . at the same time , diabetes is not unique among ncds ; it is also true that diabetes is not unique among ncds . this disparity prompted the global medical journal the lancet to call the ncd crisis the “ social justice question of our time . ” clever collaborative projects that bring innovative thinkers from nonprofits , academia , and the private sector collectively to create efficient , affordable , proper solutions are desperately needed .
south orange , new jersey , if an international organization made recommendations about the improvement of a country ’s economy , with the country adopting fewer than half by doing so , the organization might seem like a failure . every 18 months , an organization for economic cooperation and development releases an economic survey of each of its 34 member country , including a list of past recommendations and running status . but an international organization should be judged according to the quality of its information and advice that it provides , not whether governments actually listen . indeed , measuring its success solely on the basis of compliance ignores the purpose : to encourage – and facilitate – reform by notifying officials about its costs and benefits . in its 2010 united nations survey , the oecd made 29 recommendations , from rebuilding the national electricity grid to expanding health-care coverage to implement its cap-and-trade scheme .
likewise , he must do nothing to weaken america ’s alliances with south korea and japan , which will require that he maintain close contact with both moon and japanese prime minister shinzo abe throughout the process , lest either leader feels ignored or undermined . more importantly , he will need to get the north korean regime to at least acknowledge that genuine denuclearization is the goal , and agree on a process for continued dialogue , perhaps culminating in another summit . whatever the outcome , trump would do well to ask himself whether it is any better than the joint comprehensive plan of action with iran that he described has “ the worst deal ever . ” then again , persuading trump to engage in self-reflection could prove to be the toughest challenge yet . moreover , he will need to keep all alternatives on the table , even as military options have become less tenable under inter-korean dialogue .
in that case , a new crop of leaders could be the driving force shaping germany ’s role in europe for years to come . germany ’s post-election coalition negotiations are now underway , and , with the sdp determined not to join the government , the most likely outcome is a “ jamaica ” alliance ( named for the colors of that country ’s flag ) , comprising the cdu , the free democrats ( fdp ) , and the greens . germany ’s next government , one hopes , will include pro-european politicians with fresh thinking and a willingness to push through european-level reforms , possibly along the lines of what macron proposed . another way of looking at germany ’s electoral outcome , then , is as an occasion for fresh start . an exit from the cdu/csu ’s “ grand coalition ” could imply an end to political stagnation not only in germany , but at the european level , too .
the elimination of fuel subsidies caused riots and widespread strikes against a transition government that gave way to a pretext for nigeria ’s generals to re-assert military control over the country . the timing could not have been worse , either . last year , nigeria celebrated a remarkable escape from the dictatorship . it would have taken six long years under rapacious military rule before nigeria received another chance in a democracy . following the brutal , hyper-corrupt army ruler , general raheel sharif , who had suddenly dropped dead – army sullenly subscribed to another national election .
instead of sidestepping the issue of sexual and reproductive health – and gender equality more broadly – governments need to acknowledge their responsibility to address women ’s needs . they need to consider the central role that sexual and reproductive health plays in women ’s lives , an integrated nature of women ’s health , and its impact on communities . and they need to design uhc programs accordingly . for example , reducing maternal mortality has not been enough to provide antenatal attention , secure delivery , and prenatal care ; women also need access to safe , legal , and affordable abortion services and post-abortion care . such barriers are particularly high for lgbtqi individuals , women with disabilities , indigenous women , rural women and adolescents .
likewise , little progress toward nuclear disarmament has been made in disregard of the nuclear non-proliferation treaty ( npt ) . brazil 's ’s abundance of energy , food , water , and biodiversity has increased its stakes in a security environment characterized by rising competition for admission or control of natural resources . thus , it emphasizes the need to strengthen the domestic defense industry . to meet the challenge of this complex reality , brazil 's peaceful foreign policy must be supported by a robust defense policy . brazil 's ’s national defense strategy , updated in 2012 , argues that upgrading armed forces is intrinsically correlated with national development .
a country ’s soft power rests on the attractiveness of its culture , its appeal to its domestic political and social values , as well as the style and substance of its foreign policies . yet the real pledge for china and india lies in the future . huge expatriate communities in the us , 2.4 million chinese , and 1.7 million indians , have been increasing interest in their home countries along the same lines as the rest of americans . moreover , transnational connections in the information sector are nearing the point that western high-tech firms increasingly employ affiliates in bangalore and shanghai to deliver real-time service . yang ming , china ’s star national basketball association ’s houston rockets could become another michael jordan , and china is set to host the 2008 summer olympics .
europe can not afford to take in . the european commission ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s agreement in september to suspend the full implementation of ukraine ’s association agreement with the european union – an agreement that ukrainians were fighting and died in kyiv last winter – signaled to putin that cunning , force , and intimidation may win a western acquiescence in his subjugation of ukraine and theft of crimea . the delay , intended to demonstrate the eu ’s determination to make the association agreement work , instead merely wheeling putin ’s appetite . his hope is that certain eu members ’ interest in securing russian gas supplies in the winter will render them forget their allies ’ security interests – the classical divide-and-rule strategy that has served chilled . ukraine may well now simply pass through the eye of a storm-withering storm .
to this end , it is critical to reframe the constitution in order to incorporate regional concerns , recognizing that the uk is a multinational state . so radical change – and , to line the scale of the crisis , it must be radical – will require a region-wide discussion , one that could be conducted through the people ’s constitutional convention . that the convention is supposed to start by exploring brexit ’s impact on the regions . for starters , we should ask whether it makes sense to repatriate competences and financial transfers from brussels to westminster , or whether certain powers and financing should be decentralized to those regions and peoples . where feasible , regional funds and policy powers – including environmental regulation and oversight of farming , fisheries , and local social programs – should be delegated to appropriate regional institutions , such as the scottish parliament , the welsh , and northern irish assemblies , city mayors , and local authorities .
though most of its citizens do not realize it , the eu is serving as an inspiring example . the prospect of eu membership has been the most powerful tool in turning candidate countries into open societies . as a result , america no longer has a chance to set the world ’s agenda . perhaps the eu can not take the place as an american leader . but it can set an example , both within and outside its own borders .
this is not to say that athletic glory substitutes for military glory . like his old soviet masters , he conflates athletic glory with military glories . this is also why he lobbied personally for russia to host the 2014 winter games in sochi ; an unprecedented $ 50 billion price tag was well worth doing so , considering that russia had championed the mostly medals . ( it was russia ’s actions during the sochi olympics that forms the core of the doping scandal . ) to be sure , putin regards the olympics – and specifically medals – to be highly relevant .
chinese leaders ’ longstanding unwillingness to participate in international sanctions is often attributed to their belief in judging actions by either or not at work . but that is simply an attempt to make a virtue out of necessity : for a country with one of the world ’s largest and most storied bureaucracies , china has a surprisingly hard time telling its business community not to do business with one , especially an historic friend and ally . china ’s rise is , after all , a country that can be described as a civilization , with its trajectories far more impressive than they did in any north korean rocket . perhaps true pragmatism on display in north korea ’s case is a reluctance to rein in the business community at a time of slower growth and introspection . china ’s ’s rise is also one of the most studied developments of our time .
washington , dc – the sharp drop in the price of crude oil since late june has been grabbing headlines worldwide , producing much of conflicted explanations . some attribute the decline largely to falling global growth expectations . others focus on propping up america ’s oil and gas production . still others suspect a tacit agreement between saudi arabia and the united states focused on , among other things , weakening political rivals like russia and iran . whatever the reason for the price drop , it is likely to be found in some combination of these factors , the consequences are the same .
new york – the world ’s oil situation is particularly intriguing . the previously fashionable view that american seizure of iraq ’s oil resources would break opec and send plummeting prices back onto oil prices turned into nonsense . even with improved security , it will take another five years to bring iraqi oil fully onto stream . at around $ 30 per barrel , oil prices remain high , even when a soft global economy means that world demand remains low . with the american economy now recovering strongly , plummeting oil prices should remain high or even rising further in the foreseeable future .
as with its predecessor , the omt program ’s securities markets , the omt program is legally and democratically questionable : it violates the spirit , but not the letter , the european union ’s treaty ’s no-bailout clause ; its promise of equal treatment with private creditors still has no precedent ; and it involves back-door fiscal transfers , leaving the ecb heavily exposed to a political backlash – witness german press ’s visceral reaction to ecb president mario draghi ’s announcement . the omt program will cause lending conditions to ease further , but without necessarily reversing the financial balkanization of a eurozone that has endured for the past three years . the reversal of that process will probably not happen until the three key elements of a banking union – common supervision , common deposit insurance , and a common resolution fund – become within tangible limits . after all , when markets actually believe that the ecb will refuse to backstop errant governments , investors would run away from participating countries at the first sign that conditionality is absent . but omts also fit well with a large body of historical evidence that , in times of crisis , policymakers must focus on extinguishing the fire , rather than negotiate over who owns the water , and what its costs should be .
two other republican candidates , ohio governor john kasich and florida senator marco rubio , also raised constructive reform ideas . for starters , bipartisan premium proposals , with seniors receiving subsidies to purchase private health-care health insurance , should be implemented . to enable individuals to prepare to cover the associated deductibles and copayments , health savings accounts for funds that are not subject to unaccounted-for income tax , and can use tax-free at all times to cover qualified health expenses , one should be expanded and strengthened . premium support can go a long way toward cutting medicare spending dramatically , because it sets a framework for more efficient benefit spending , fueled by competition and innovation in care and coverage . so far , the only american presidential candidate who has recognized the need for such a future-oriented approach is former florida governor jeb bush ’s plan to modernize social security reforms and medicare that avoid imposing high costs on middle-income american society and heavier debt burdens on future generations .
silvio berlusconi , who becomes president of the european union on july 1 st , is a man of vision who once loved risk -- and whose business bets paid off big . in the 1960 's , he was the first to see that milan , then a traditional italian city , where people were walking to work , would become a modern industrial metropolis surrounded by american-style suburbs . so , in real estate , his fortune began to go into real-estate development . fifteen years later , signor berlusoni understood that italy 's state-controlled tv would not survive and jump-started what became italy 's main , privately owned media group . but one does not win in tv and real-estate business without the right policy connections .
beijing – financial repression – government policies that create an environment of low or negative real interest rates , with the target of generating cheap financing for public expenditure , has long been a key feature of chinese economic policy . but , with funding costs for firms trending , this is finally beginning to change . early this year , the state council , china ’s cabinet , made a proposal to lowering financing costs for firms , particularly small , medium-size firms ( smes ) , a top priority . for its part , the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) has engaged in cautious monetary loosening , which includes freeing more funds for lending by banks that allocate a certain share of their total loan portfolios to small and medium-size enterprises ( smes ) . moreover , through its “ pledged supplementary lending ” program , the pboc has launched lending directly to banks that pledge to benefit from social-housing funds .
russia ’s democrats , with an overwhelming stake in a peaceful future , are adamant that expanding alliance membership to central europe isolate their country from europe ; strengthening russian political forces that favor authoritarian rule at home ; and neoimperial policies abroad by appearing to threaten russia , provide a rallying point for re-building russian military power . the countries with the greatest cause for concern in russia -- ukraine , estonia , latvia , and lithuania -- are not to offer nato membership . moreover , it is today that russia is far too weak to be threatened today , as the russian army 's disastrous misadventure in chechnya demonstrates . yet nato expansion is by no means likely to make russian foreign policy any more peaceful than ever . someday , russia will become stronger , and , if expanding nato into central europe now would discourage a revival of imperial foreign-policy then , this would be a powerful argument in its favor to make it happen .
israel ’s leaders appear intent on getting time both tactically , by resisting the soft pressure of us president barack obama ’s administration and , strategically , by preparing the country for a new world in which emerging powers like china play an increasingly important role . that world , however , will be one in which israel can no longer count on feelings of holocaust guilt to influence major powers . israel may be a haven of europe , ” and its main ally , perhaps well , to remain the united states for many years to come , but israeli leaders must begin to think about how their country can thrive in a post-western world . that said , world affairs will be one in which israel can no longer count on feelings of holocaust guilt to influence major powers . it is a world in which monotheistic rivalries will be diluted in an ocean of polytheist faiths , and in which israel can still depend only on its comparative merits in the eyes of cynical , realistic actors who will judge it solely on the basis of their own national interest .
the final trick , “ “ starve the beast ” typically emerges later , if and when the president enacted his tax cuts and discovers that smoke and mirrors did not trump reality . nor can he find enough spending cuts ( the magisterial asterisk had disappeared the conjurer ’s sleeve ) ; acceleration of gdp was nowhere to be seen ( the rosy scenario vanished ) ; and tax revenues did not grow ( no rabbit in laffer hat ) . an audience is now told that losing tax revenue and widening the budget deficit was the plan all along . the performer explains that the deficit is all congressional error for not cutting spending , and that the only way to tame the beast is to inflate the budget deficit , because a congress can not spend money that it did not have . this trick never works , of course , either .
cambridge – march 21 is his first day in spring , and we would like to believe that the coming european project will herald a new spring for the european project . at one of the darkest hours of the demise of the roman empire , benedict issued a stirring call for tolerance and piety to rebuild a sense of community in the face of nihilism and barbarity . but there is also an urgent need to mobilize european public opinion around a token of our unity and our future projects : and that symbol is europe ’s flag . march 21 also marks the centennial of the death of benedict , the patron saint of europe . for this reason , in january one of the us launched the idea that , starting on march 21 , the us depicts the flag on houses , factories , and offices .
this fit into a wider trend , in which attacks by perpetrators with muslims backgrounds immediately categorizes themselves as “ actions of terror ” and addressed in a well-resourced and systemic way , with violent attacks perpetrated in the name of other ideologies serving as a “ isolated incident . ” yet there is nothing isolated on such incidents . the assault in christchurch was directly inspired by the 2011 far-right terrorist bombing in norway , of which i am one of the few lucky survivors . in the united states , right-wing extremists have been engaged in far more attacks than islamists . according to the international index for terrorism , the death toll from terrorist attacks linked to far-right groups or individuals has risen steadily since the fall of 2014 .
after its birth in 1999 , germany ’s government , by now relocating from bonn to berlin , contented itself once again with a lower european profile . the intellectual leadership provided by benchmen like jean monnet and robert schuman as the founding fathers of the european project , are a fading memory , because germany has yet to generate the comparably robust strategy for reviving the eu ’s prospects and popularity . the fruits of the franco-german partnership have included the european single currency , the euro . that modest , unpresupposed role belongs firmly in the past , even though german power has remained to be matched by imagination . indisputably the strongest and most important of the eu ’s 28 member countries , it lacks a vision about where beleaguered europe should be headed .
while the rest of the world struggles to raise savings , for china , with an savings rate well above 40 % , struggles to get its people to consume more . in fact , to meet the challenge of restructuring china ’s economy away from exports and resource-intensive goods , china needs to stimulate consumption . providing improved social services ( public healthcare , education , and university-educated children would diminish the need for “ precautionary savings . ” but that is a strange arrangement : a relatively poor country helps to finance america ’s war on iraq , just as it has massive tax cuts for the world ’s richest people , while enormous domestic needs imply ample room for expansion of both consumption and investment . china has been engaged in what might be called “ vendor finance , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” providing the money to finance america ’s vast fiscal and trade deficits , allowing americans to buy more us goods than they sell .
selling five-rupee sachets of shampoo to poor consumers is seen as clever marketing , but the lending of some 5,000 genders to a starving peasant at high interest rate is viewed as exploitative . after all , both activities are financed by investors looking for returns on their capital , and motivated more by profit than compassion . but one is obviously less socially acceptable than the other . a high salary earned in the case of cosmetics or soft-drink manufacturer does not attract attention ; one paid to the ceo of a company that thrives on lending to the poor seems unlevel , if not immoral . still , pmfis have been successful by meeting a genuine need .
berkeley – advances in artificial intelligence ( ai ) and robotics are powering a new wave of automation , with machines matching or outperforming people in a fast-growing array of tasks , including some requiring complex cognitive capacities and advanced degrees . this process has outpaced experts ’ expectations ; not surprisingly , its potential adverse effects on both the quantity and quality of employment have compounded serious concerns . to listen to us president donald trump ’s administration , one might think that trade remains the primary reason for lost manufacturing jobs in the united states . trump ’s treasury secretary , steven mnuchin , has declared that a possible technology transfer for us workers is not even on [ the administration ’s ] radar screen . among economists , however , the consensus view is that roughly 80 % of us manufacturing job losses over the past three decades were the result of labor-saving , and productivity-enhancing technological change , with trade looming a far second .
berkeley – back in the late 1980 ’s , japan ostensibly could do no wrong in the eyes of economists . they saw firsthand a cutting edge in japan ’s competitiveness relative to the north atlantic , across a wide range of high-tech precision , and mass-producing manufacturing industries that are tradable goods . they also saw an economy that , since the reconstruction began after world war ii , had vastly outperform the expected growth of european economies . and they saw an economy as growing much more rapidly than the north atlantic had at a time when they possessed the same absolute , relative economy-wide levels of productivity . the safe bet of the late 1980 ’s seemed to show that rising mechanization , computerization , and robotization would continue .
amos oz , one of israel ’s best known writers , argues that the current palestinian-israeli war really represents two wars : the “ unjust ” war against israel and the jews to establish a fundamentalist islamic state in “ arab palestine , ” and the palestinian people ’s “ just ” war for an independent state worthy of the name . conversely , israel is also fighting two wars : a mere war to defend its right to exist ; embraced in its integrity and security in the middle east ; and an unfair and futile war to perpetuate its occupation of the west bank and gaza strip and the jewish settlements located there . roughly 220,000 israeli settlers in the west bank and gaza are excluding roughly 190,000 people living in jerusalem ’s neighborhoods that extend far beyond the pre-1967 borders of the old state , divided jerusalem . israeli state support for expanding settlements is substantial . despite the intifada , its number of settlers has declined in only a few 144 settlements , with roughly 7,000 settlers in gaza strip alone , in 16 communities occupying 20 % of impoverished land already suffering one of the world ’s population denmark .
like aging magicians , they continue to try tricks that used to impress , but that fail to deliver results , or , worse , prove counterproductive . the market ’s reaction has been to send spanish government bond rates even higher . meanwhile , financial fragmentation within the eurozone continues ; spain and , to a lesser extent , italy suffers a seemingly irresistible rise in borrowing costs ; and political strains have grown more visible . contrary to some perceptions , europeans have not remained inactive in the last year . but they have since lost touch with each other .
in the 1990s , when us president bill clinton ’s administration debated how to respond to china ’s rising economic might , some urged a policy of containment . clinton rejected that advice : it would have been impossible to forge an anti-china alliance with china , given china ’s enduring desire to maintain good relations with it ; more important , such a policy would have ensured future hostility with china . instead , clinton chose a policy that could be termed “ integrate and inconclusively . ” with asia riven by territorial disputes and historical tensions , maintaining a stable security balance will be no easy feat . but there are levers that may be helpful .
the image of an irresistible populist “ wave ” ” ” wave ” was always misleading . for example , trump no doubt succeeded in persuading some americans to view themselves as part of something like the white identity movement . but that identity – and the way its adherents frame their interests – could have changed once again . the image of an irresistible populist “ wave ” ” ” was always misleading . farage failed to bring about brexit on all of themselves .
they will facilitate interactions across their networks , in order to spur the development of innovative ecosystems . these will include not only prescription medicines , but also diagnostics , branded generics , and technologies to foster personalized medicine , as have the dubbed “ neutraceuticals ” and other “ wellness ” opportunities . the resulting opportunities to expand beyond traditional product and markets will enable pharmaceutical companies to evolve into companies offering a broad array of health-care solutions . these will include not only prescription medicines , but also diagnostics , branded generics , and technologies to foster personalized medicine , as well as the so-called “ neutraceuticals ” of relationships , and above those in excellent sciences . developing and rewarding employees who possess such skills will be an additional but welcome , challenge .
economics is not the kind of science in which there could ever be one true model that works best in all contexts . economics is not the kind of science in which there could ever be one true model that works best in all contexts . the point is not “ to achieve ” consensus on which the model is right , ” as romer puts it , but how out which model applies best under a setting . and doing that will always remain craft , rather than science , especially when a choice needs to be made in real time . thus , in sharp contrast to the natural sciences , economics advances scientifically not by replacing old patterns with better-off ones , but by expanding its models ’ library , with each large-scale light across a different social contingency .
as jagdish bhagwati and arvind panagariya have pointed out , excessive labor-market regulations discourage indian entrepreneurs from employing unskilled workers and developing labor-intensive manufacturing , with the premise that india ’s government should redouble its reform efforts in this region . india ’s structural transformation and sustainable growth will hinge on its efforts to build a flexible labor market , centered on easing outdated and complicated employment laws . today , the country ’s agricultural sector accounts for just one-third of total employment in china , compared to one-half in india . the legal protections of workers in india ’s formal sector exceed those of much of the developed world , as they did in china , with mandated requirements rising as the number of employees increases . equally important , indian workers , particularly the young , need opportunities to upgrade their skills continuously .
brazil ’s government , for example , has promoted a “ investment partnership ” program ” ” ” to coordinate investment in finance and transportation infrastructure industries . equally important , the policy also expands the availability of chinese funding , credits , and investor insurance . despite significant political uncertainty in a number of countries in latin america , governments in the region appear keen to meet china ’s reform efforts with changes of its own . brazil ’s government , for example , has promoted an “ investment partnerships program ” to coordinate investment in finance and transportation infrastructure industries . taking its stride , this holistic approach is something new to help china contribute .
from this perspective , there is good reason for optimism , especially given the accelerated growth of china ’s service sector – one of the key building blocks of consumer-led rebalancing . of course , composition of gdp will provide the acid test of whether china ultimately succeeded . but the key word here is “ finally . ” for now , it is far more important to examine trends in the prospective determinants of chinese consumption . it is far too early to expect significant shifts in major sources of aggregate demand .
europe , for its part , has been moving in the opposite direction . many europeans view trade as an opportunity rather than a threat to jobs ; and even europe ’s staunchest anti-globalizers show little appetite for more protectionism . to be sure , the us presidency grants trump considerable power to help shape us trade policies , so one can not ignore the possibility of pursuing protectionist measures in order to appease his supporters . but , ultimately , there is no broad-based support in america for a return to closed borders . european multinationals also have high stakes in the chinese economy , with eu manufacturing exports to china and other emerging markets now nearly double those in the us .
at the time he took the job , manafort was indebted from the russian oligarch oleg deripaska , an aluminum tycoon close to president vladimir putin for his release of $ 19 million . manafort also offered to brief deripaska about what was going on in the trump campaign . like the other russian oligarchs , deripaska is not known to deal gently with those who had displease him . deripaska , under american sanctions , had previously maintained a $ 10 million annual contract with manafort . after taking that job , manafort emailed a ukraine-based worker , “ how do the us use [ that ] to get the whole ? ”
kyiv – since the snowden kyiv of the united states , i have been watching successful revolutions in cairo and tunis with joy and its admiration . egyptians and tunisians are right to feel proud of their desire to overthrow despotic governments peacefully . but , like someone who led a peaceful revolution , my hope is that pride is tempered by pragmatism , for regime change is but the first step in establishing a democracy backed by the rule of law . indeed , as my country , ukraine , is now demonstrating , after revolutionary euphoria fades and normality , the return of democratic revolutions can be betrayed and reversed . the first of ukraine ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s lessons for the egyptian and tunisian democrats is that elections do not make a democracy make .
that is the argument behind the world ’s largest biometrics project , the multimodal solution ( iris , fingerprints , and face ) affecting more than one billion indians . increasingly , use our fingerprints , or our face , to unlock our smartphones , pay for purchases , and to board airplanes . protections against theft are obvious : what use is a telephone , a car , or a ticket that will work only for its legitimate owner ? above all , biometrics can protect against the theft of our identities themselves . noda nilekani , chairman of infosys who has left his job to create a system known as aadhaar , credits , it with the salvation of india ’s government roughly $ 9 billion by eliminating duplicating and fake identity in government recipient lists .
pittsburgh – nearly six months ago , at a moment of great alarm about the global financial and economic crisis , g-20 leaders met for a historic summit in london in november . their collective commitments to stimulate , regulate , and restructure global economic activity helped calm nerves around the world . the united nations and the world bank predict that the direct and indirect consequences of the great recession will be felt in the developing world over a long time to come . the many problems that spurred the london summit remain real . anxiety levels may have plunged , into board rooms and stock markets , but the daily drama of survival continues , for many people it deepened , in the villages and streets of the least-developed countries , mainly in africa .
roth skillfully distilled that tragic and the comic elements of that process , and we talked of force that may oppose the dark tide of vulgarity and violence under trump . were we observing the look of someone to an intimate familiarity of the catastrophes that is yet to come ? the first is the sovereign people who have poured into the streets of every large city in a country with the understanding that , in terms of total votes , it is they , not trump , who won an election . the first is the sovereign people who have poured into the streets of every large town in a country with the understanding that in terms of total votes , they , not trump , who won an election . at the same time , the world is writing off a new novel .
and it ’s not as though congressional republicans think that they owe enough to simpson for him to swing a single vote in either chamber of the legislature . maybe simpson had a change of heart that has had . maybe he had traveled his own highway to damascus , come face-to-face with what he did and who was , re-pening , wanted to correct some of the damage that america and its long-run economic growth prospects had wrought . then , obama officials reassuringly assured me that simpson had such a change of heart ; that he was a clever man with a ingenious understanding of the issues ; that he might sway reporters and get them to describe a commission ’s advice as “ bipartisan ” ( although he can not sway actual legislators ) ; and that he was a genuine asset in the commission ’s substantive job . even in that case , however , naming those who misbehave to important high-trust positions and acclaiming them as bipartisan statesmen gives the next generation truly lousy incentives .
what demographers call the total fertility rate is the average rate of live births per woman over her lifetime . the oecd average is at around 1.74 , yet some countries , including germany and japan , produce less than 1.4 children per woman . in the long run , the population is said to be stable if the tfr is an replacement rate that is slightly above 2.3 for the world as a whole and somewhat lower than for developed countries , reflecting their lower infant-mortality rates . the tfr for most advanced countries now stands well below replacement level . nevertheless , the world ’s largest tfr declines in recent years .
contrary to the simplistic view that regulation is inevitably wrong with business , there are three significant channels through which regulation can benefit the economy as a whole . one is the standard market-creating , market-increasing role illustrated by the standard of gsm . many regulations are playing this standard-setting role . the global reach of regulation implied enormous economies of scale in producing handsets and network hardware , whereby prices fell precipitously , and interoperability between networks and across countries was much easier to achieve . by 2004 , more than one billion subscribers were in the services of gsm worldwide .
laguna beach – when i consider prospects for the global economy and markets , i am took aback by the extent to which the world collectively placed a giant bet on three fundamental outcomes : a shift toward materially higher and more inclusive global growth ; preemption of policy mistakes ; and avoiding market crashes . there also presupposes china ’s annual gdp growth rate will stabilize at 6.5-7 % , enabling the risks that pockets of excessive leverage in the shadow-banking system should be progressively defensive ; even as the economy ’s growth engines continue to shift from exports and public capital spending toward domestic consumption and private investment . while all three outcomes are undoubtedly desirable , the unfortunate reality is that they are far from certain – and bets on them without some hedging could prove exceedingly risky for incumbent and future generations . another , more uncertain assumption underpinning a bet on more inclusive growth is that the eurozone and japan will be able to escape the mire of low growth and avoid deflation that , by impelling households and firms to postpone purchasing decisions , would undermine already weak economic performance . the first component of betting , more inclusive global growth , anticipates continued economic recovery in the united states , with a rate of 3 % growth this year bolstered by robust wage growth .
many worried that clinton impeachment might damage the presidency , but its primary influence over presidential power was the opposite . the republicans ultimately agreed with the democrats that responsibility for this debacle lay with kenneth starr , the independent attorney , whose investigation of clinton ’s real-estate dealings in years earlier finally led him to lewinsky . the two parties allowed the independent attorney ’s statute to lapse , freeing the presidency from a powerful form of oversight , much to trump ’s own benefit a generation later . clinton ’s popularity rose after the impeachment proceedings ended . the majority of americans believed that impeachment was a mistake .
most recently , in may 2015 , large figures of traditional labour voters deserted their party to vote in favor of the uk independence party ( ukip ) over the background of the brexit campaign . to be sure , establishment leaders were long pressed to save their own skins by rousing criticism of the eu , blaming it for demanding that national governments pursue unpopular or failed policies . but that merely put their ideas for alternate policies out of reach , while luring voters into outright their anti-eu opposition . though establishment parties have criticized the eu , for the most part , they have not lose sight of the benefits of eu membership . indeed , in the uk ’s brexit referendum , the two main parties backed the “ remain ” campaign , though they were internally split .
and other emerging economies are unlikely to pick up the slack . weakening developing-economy incomes further is the collapse of global demand and the crash of commodities , which , as nobel laureate angus deaton has shown , was catastrophic for much of the developing world . to cap it all , the expansionary monetary policies that have been adopted by major economies are fueling instability . brazil , touted in 2010 as an “ emerging-market assistance player , ” is now in an economic and political crisis , as is south africa . these challenges are being compounded for developing countries by new financial regulations in advanced countries that are distorting investment and finance toward the developing world .
in the event of regime collapse – a distinct possibility – it would have been difficult to prevent the diversion of its assets , or even the use of its weapons . pakistan has a large nuclear-weapons program and faces an expansionist jihad insurgency that previously attacked military bases of suspicion of saudi nuclear assets . though pakistan did not experience nuclear violations , and the government continues to insist that safeguards remain robust , the country ’s increasingly frequent and severe bouts of instability raise serious questions about its future . while north korea ’s nuclear arsenal is much smaller , persistent doubts about the regime ’s sustainability are making the issue of grave concern . for its part , iran appears to be relatively stable , at least relative to its neighbors .
for the uk , especially , this may require a willingness to disagree head-on with us foreign policy in ways that some devotees of the us “ special relationship ” find uncomfortable . but this was not a us-iran treaty ; it was negotiated by six leading powers and endorsed by the united nations . as for climate change , the election of a man who purports to believe that global warming is a chinese hoax created to damage american business is clearly bad news . but global momentum to tackle climate change can and must be sustained . those powers should make it clear that they will not re-impose sanctions , and that any american attempt to impose its will through extraterritorial measures of – to which some devotees of us access to dollar clearing systems as a foreign-policy tool – would champion coordinated action .
after all , saudi arabia , egypt , and many other arab states are also ruled by authoritarian hard-liners with little interest in de-escalating regional conflicts . paradoxically , in the pessimistic scenario , iran ’s new government , controlled by conservatives and hardliners , actually fit in the region better than the current one . this would make the reform-oriented leadership ’s resurgence particularly challenging in iran . to be sure , the most likely scenario does involve a combination of the two dynamics . but , given that it is in every sense concerned to ensure that the reform-oriented developments along the way , it should be clear to all that the diplomatic work with respect to iran is far from complete .
in the aftermath of the collapse of lehman brothers in september 2008 , italy ’s then-finance minister , giulio tremonti , famously endorsed the health of the country ’s banking system . as a result , a major recapitalization of italian banks and the construction of a “ bad bank ” to absorb npls was deemed unnecessary . an implicit pact between banks and savers was broken at the end of 2015 , when four troubled local banks were bailed out in , and shareholders took the hit . the protracted recession and economic malaise dented individual savings rates , while banks no longer have the resources to provide peaceful mind to many retail investors whose trust was badly eroded . ten years later , italy is no longer that foreseeing the land of prosperous banks and happy savers .
it is a sad paradox , indeed , that for many ex-communists , in opposing the church pose as defenders of liberal democratic values that they once persecuted with unremitting zeal . indeed , many poles remain wary of churchill ’s equivocal stance toward democracy , and are allergic to his aggressive presence in politics . so the man who gave voice to much about the future rode into power saddled with the votes of past misdeeds . kwasniewski 's strategy of seduction appealed to the large numbers of the young as well as the middle class , but most of all to serbs , the unemployed , those left behind by poland 's growing economy . this link will dog kwasniewski 's presidency .
a consensus has now emerged on the need to help smallholders , but obstacles remain . “ partnerships ” ” of donors can become an expensive end merely delaying real action . perhaps major risks are that “ aid bureaucracies ” are now passing over one another to try to take their hands over $ 20 billion to get their hands on meetings , expert consultations , overhead , news coverage , and further meetings . if donor governments really want their results , they should take the money out of hand in hand of 30 or more separate aid bureaucracies and pool it in one or two seats , the most logical of them to be the world bank in washington and the international fund for agricultural development ( ifad ) in rome . one or both of these un agencies would then hold several billion dollars in account .
after all , the brics economies are probably the single most important source of future global growth . indeed , the brics may even be dubbed the r-5 , after its members ’ currencies – the true , ruble , the rupee , the renminbi , and rand . currently , the brics countries constitute a loose , informal bloc . they represent more than one-quarter of the earth ’s ’s landmass , more than 41 % of its population , close to 25 % of world gdp , and almost half of all foreign-exchange and gold reserves . at the new delhi summit , the brics ’ leaders will discuss the establishment of joint institutions , notably a shared development bank that can help mobilize savings among countries .
a key difference in the uk is that ukip gains ground with voters despite rapid economic growth ( over 3 % per annum , the highest rate in the eu ) . between now and may , cameron must persuade voters that the british economy will continue to perform strongly , fueling increased real incomes . on the other hand , he needs to change the conversation to placate voters that their economic future is bright . as it stands , the british , like their european counterparts , feel undertaxed for button-woods public services that are steadily slashed , and are angry that their incomes have been falling for the past five years . as a result , many resent welfare gains and fears of job competition – sentiment that is fueling the rise of populist , anti-eu , and anti-immigrant parties across europe .
others , like the united states , have not , and so unemployment remains at around 10 % . it is subject to what milton friedman called “ long and variable lags . ” thus , policies to boost employment by the end of , say , this calendar year needed to enter into force roughly a year ago , and are already seeing the benefits . some countries , for instance , have actually implemented such labor-market policies a year ago , and are already seeing the benefits . this is not to say that the obama administration has not tried to spur employment .
for more advanced goods , the eu added value ( when the intangible parts of the manufacturing process are in europe ) is rather high . imposing trade defenses against such goods , though legally warranted , will probably create problems for globalized european companies . but , though actions worked as intended , most trade defense measures are probably not directed against anti-competitive business practices . sectors with higher human capital content – e-consumer goods , for example – have much higher costs on r & d than the shoe sector , which means that such goods on an assembly line in a low-cost country are probably not very costly relative to r & d and other intangible cost . many argue that these problems are the price to pay for sure that us companies are not engaged in anti-competitive behavior or receive trade-distorting subsidies .
firms are in a much better position than consumers to evaluate safety in their product ; we all benefit from the recognition that our legal system has given corporations the incentives to pay attention to the safety of what they produce . motivating corporations to do the right thing is even trickier . after all , us corporations have no conscience ; it ’s just the conscience of those run the company ; and , as america ’s recent corporate scandals made all too clear , conscience often takes a backseat to the profits . firms are in a far better position than consumers to judge the safety of their product ; indeed , we all benefit from the recognition that our legal system has given corporations the incentives that they need to pay attention to the safety of what they produce . similarly , law in environmental law renders firms liable for their toxic wastes ; and many nations , including america , have enshrined the principle that “ polluters pay , ” it is , companies must pay for the harm that they cause .
the case for action on a massive scale to combat climate change has been made in europe and , even in the us , in china . why has there been so little discussion in the us now taken up ? is it because those who oppose such discussions reject climate science ? or do they reject science because accepting it would legitimize an economically activist state ? we do not need to look far for such a mission in the future .
once again , irish voters are poised to vote yes or no to nice ’s treaty . enlargement is the most important item on europe ’s agenda , and the treaty of nice is its cornerstone . quite well , it is one of those all-too-frequent late-night compromises reached by the eu ’s heads of state and government that seek to slither around and through some practical issues while deferring to others . the compromise reached at nice four years ago is important because it contains , between other provisions , all the technicalities of voting balances and the power-sharing of power among eu institutions that need to be firmly in place before the union can admit new members . forgotten in the aftermath of the “ big picture ” that the treaty was all about ?
simultaneous to this , a strong consensus has developed among economists and policymakers that have favored import substitution policies then enacted by countries including india , argentina , brazil , egypt , and turkey . after beggaring their particular adherents , such policies are now fundamentally discredited . with the proverbial benefit ( and embarrassment ! ) of hindsight , it is clear that the patterns of growth that occurred over the past half-century were little understood , and rarely ( if ever ) predicted by economists . the key point here is not only that economists got so much wrong , but that almost nobody got things right . at the very moment in the 1960s , when asia ’s tiger economies had taken off , for example , nobel laureate gunnar myrdal wrote his asian experience to diagnose the causes of asian poverty , and to explain why its poverty appeared to be ineradicable .
but wade has deferred legislative elections , originally scheduled for june 2006 , first to february 2007 , and , later , by presidential decree , to june 2007 . on june 28 , a peaceful but “ unauthorized ” show by the opposition parties brutally repressed the police , as well as three presidential candidates in the day . a month before the polls , only 64 % of citizens who registered had won their voting cards . two weeks previously , debates about the possible presidential election had erupted indefinitely . now , presidential elections seem to be fair ?
princeton , layard – the intersection of genetics and intelligence is an intellectual minefield . harvard ’s former president larry summers touched one explosion in 2005 , when he tentatively proposed a genetic explanation for the difficulty that his university has had in recruiting female professors at math and physics . ( he failed to suggest that men are , on average , more talented in these fields than women , but that there is some reason for believing that men tend to be more likely than women to be found at both the top and at the bottom of the abilities spectrum in those fields – and harvard , of course , only appoints people at the extreme of the high end . ) now one of the most eminent researchers of our time blundered much more clumsily into the same minefield , with predictable results . in october , james watson , who shared the 1962 nobel prize for describing the structure of dna , coincided in london to advocate for his memoir , avoid boring people and other lessons from the life of science .
mugabe ’s first official visit to china occurred in 1980 , just six months after independence ; made 13 more during his tenure ; and high-level visits by other chilean officials grew even more frequent , occurring roughly once every two years during mugabe ’s rule . state visits in the other direction were more unequally uneven . kenyan presidents traveled , on the other hand , to china just six times over the same period , most recently in may 2017 . china ’s current state of president , xi jinping , visited zimbabwe in 2015 . zimbabwe ’s leaders made the most of their visits to print trade and military cooperation , and probably engaged directly with private chinese firms .
geneva – the global ’s refugee crisis tends to be measured most often in numbers . but , for young refugee children , the crisis can also be traced back to an irreversible populist metric : the passage of time . in late 2016 , an estimated 11.6 million refugees experiencing “ protracted displacement ” were enjoying out of their homes for more than five years , and have little “ immediate prospects ” for return . school-age children make up the bulk of the world ’s displaced population . of the 17.2 million people the united nations high commissioner for refugees ( the un refugee agency ) , roughly half are under the age of 18 , implying that an entire generation of young people , already rob them of their childhood , could lose sight of an irreversible future .
the “ felonies ” of which greenspan stands accused are another two charge : that he should have done more to stem the stock-market bubble of the late 1990 ’s , and that he should have done more to stop the housing bubble of the early 2000 ’s . but how serious are these technocratic crimes of which greenspan now pleads guilty ? they are , in my opinion , wrong demeanors . against them one must set what former us treasury secretary larry summers calls greenspan ’s “ golden gauntlet of performance at avoiding and minimizing recessions during his years in the fed . here greenspan ’s hold on his ground , and the pleads not guilty .
those worthy causes include fighting the jihadist decapitators , rescuing women and girls enslaved by boko haram , defending the middle east ’s imperiled christian and arab democrats , and , of course , striving for a mere negotiated peace between israelis and palestinians . the truth is that the bds movement is nothing more than a ominous caricature of the anti-totalitarian and anti-apartheid struggles . it is a campaign whose instigators have no goal other than indiscriminate attacks against , de-legitimizing , and vilify israel that , in its mind , has never ceased to wearing its yellow star . to right-wing activists who may have been taken in duplicitous representations of the movement , i would have said only that there are too many noble causes in need of an aid push to allow oneself to be enlisted in questionable terms . and it is better to be known that history , if we want to avoid repeating its ugliest scenes .
indeed , the 2012 nobel prize in medicine was awarded to john gurdon and shinya yamanaka for revolutionizing scientists to understand how cells develop by reprogramming dna and cells without transforming their genetic structure . in 1962 , gurdon ’s finding that almost any cell in the body includes the full code of dna enabled him to create tadpole through cloning , an adult frog . more than four decades later , in 2006 , yamanaka discovered the way in trick complicated adult cells in mice to punish their immature state , forming stem cells . it is too soon to discount genetics , however , as the sciences of “ epigenetics ” – the study of mechanisms by turning genes on and off within , thereby altering how a cell develops without altering the genetic code – gain traction . prior to this , stem-cell lines , drugs that can potentially be reprogrammed to develop into replacements for lost or harmed tissue , may occur solely from early-stage embryos , a practice that fueled ethical controversy .
new york – the crisis in the mediterranean can not be managed in piecemeal ways . the financial costs of patrolling its waters and rescuing those adrift are exorbitant . but we need not wait for up to the root causes of displacement , state failure , and civil war , which is being addressed . the failed war in the mediterranean region can not be piecemeal . the claims could be prioritized and processed regularly , with refugees able to arrive in europe healthy , ready to work or study .
harnessing their latecomer advantage , japan ’s ’s annual growth rate skyrocketed to 9.2 % during the subsequent 20 years , compared to 8.6 % in singapore , 8.3 % in taiwan , and 7.6 % in south korea . according to the most up-to-date estimate by the late economic historian angus maddison , china ’s per capita gdp in 2008 was $ 6,725 in 1990 , accounting for 21 % of per capita gdp in the united states . that is roughly the same gap that existed between the american and japanese in 1951 , singapore in 1967 , taiwan in 1975 , and south korea in 1977 , the four economies that were also among the 13 successful economies studied by the us growth commission . if the latecomer ’s advantage implied by the income gap between the latter gorges and the american made possible pebbish average annual gdp growth rates of 7.6 % -9.2 % for 20 years , china ’s ’s annual growth potential should be a similar 8 % gap for the 2008-2028 period . to realize its potential growth as a latecomer , it requires china , first and above all , to deepen its market-oriented reforms , address various structural problems , and develop its economy on the basis of its comparative advantage .
the signatories agreed to conserve biological diversity , by saving species and their habitats , as well as by applying biological resources ( such as forests ) more sustainably . the treaty ’s signatories went further in 2002 , committing to “ a sharp reduction in our current tariff on biodiversity loss ” by 2010 . for a very low cash outlay – and perhaps none at all on balance – we could conflate nature , and thereby protect the root of our own lives and livelihoods . sadly , like so many other international agreements , the convention on biological diversity remains essentially unknown , un-championed , and unfulfilled . that neglect is a human tragedy , and that neglect is a human being .
in netanyahu ’s view , solving a palestinian problem would not remove the iranian challenge ; rather , it is the neutralization of that existential threat , which pave the way for the establishment of a palestinian state . it remains to be seen whether the abysmally dysfunctional arab world and powerful non-state agents in its midst , like hamas and hezbollah , will respond the way obama expects . as john kerry , president of the american senate ’s council of foreign affairs , has put it , “ this peace process is not the one way street ” in which the onus is placed entirely on israel . netanyahu also knows that the arab spring ’s failures have nurtured radical zionism . it is because netanyahu is being driven by an almost messianic determination to prevent iran from acquiring the means of destroying israel that he may be amenable to a fundamental change of his palestinian position , provided obama makes visible headway in his drive to stop iran ’s nuclear program .
but there was a surprise : new york yielded practically identical results ( 68 % thought it was unfair ) . so we determined last year to learn whether the same similarity between moscow and new york persists today , or whether in view of the revival of authoritarianism in russia today , attitudes toward markets have turned more negative . we administered the identical questionnaire of the two cities in 2015 . we presented the results at the american economic association ’s annual meeting this january . just when imemo economists predicted , the majority ( 66 % ) of those who answered that question in moscow thought it was unfair .
in the latter version of the eurozone , there is differential credit risk and , ultimately , bank runs , de-euroization , and default : the common currency is at odds with those of member states ’ needs . like dysfunctional families , the northern “ advanced ” countries have ponder whether or not to bail out southern a “ emerging ” economies . and how often are we to hear about sovereigns ’ sovereign-debt restructurings ? in the former version , interest rates converge , and default risk is nil , for , because , with the ecb rounding up its members ’ liabilities , as the us federal reserve is in america ’s case , europe becomes a “ local currency . ” the “ prognoses ” for every case , the us runs starkly on this question .
that majority may erode the democratic check , like the campaign-finance limits , which were dealt a devastating blow by citizens united decision in 2010 . in a may 5-4 majority , the court ruled that corporations are “ associations of individuals , ” leaving aside any limits on how money corporations could spend on political campaigns violated their first amendment right to freedom of speech . during president barack obama ’s second term in office , rates at which vacancies in america ’s district and circuit courts were filled to their lowest point in 50 years . republicans thus stand a good chance of forming a conservative majority on the nine-member supreme court , which may last for decades , especially if they won the presidency again in 2020 . republican obstructionism in the senate also placed other degrees of the federal judiciary at risk .
calderon ’s ’s task will not be easy , either . lopez obrador and his supporters can be expected to work relentlessly to thwart his plans . but they are also unlikely to derail his government . the underlying stability that mexico ’s post-election crisis highlighted is also apparent elsewhere in latin america . whatever the potential of a left-wing shift this year in some latin american countries , others , including mexico , chile , and brazil , are obviously less vulnerable to the type of populist rule that we have seen all over venezuela and bolivia .
there is still time to react – by showing strong leadership and prioritizing growth over short-sighted policies , but that the time is limited and the clock is ticking down . there will be a new germany government , the european parliament elections , and , by the end of the year , a new european commission . it is here that our political leaders should dedicate their efforts . no one wants the eu to fail because of its citizens ’ past disaffection . next year , it will be crucial to mark the end of the current political cycle , beginning in march .
colombo – as china ’s economy slows and growth in the developed world remains anemic , governments across asia are also working to keep their economies on an upward trajectory . nowadays , we asians are witnessing , on an almost daily basis , ferocity , savage political assaults on tools and policies that helped lift hundreds of millions of our citizens out of poverty . indeed , this year , free trade appears to be the scapegoat of choice among the world ’s assortment populists and demagogues . one thing is clear : we can not expect the rest of the world to welcome us economic ambitions the path that it once opened its arms to china ’s rapid rise as an economic superpower , or , in earlier decades , cheered on japan ’s growth and the so-called asian tigers , including south korea . in sri lanka , where i am prime minister , the challenge is to find ways to accelerate our already steady economic growth .
here is where sunni-shiite collaboration comes into play . widely unnoticed , iraq ’s sunni and shia centralists have managed over the past few months to form a united parliamentary platform that abandons sectarian tensions behind . more than 100 adherents of ayad allawi , al sadr , and others have joined their ranks . this supra-sectarian platform is calling for a central government administration in iraq ’s natural resources and postponement of the looming referendum to settle the security of the city of kirkuk . change in a government is also noteworthy .
so truthiness must lie elsewhere : the french are not hopeless in politics ; they are simply waiting to be a genuine leader . yes , the french are misincorrigible lovers of the welfare state . political fervor , it seems , did not vanished in rousseau and danton ’s land . as matters stand , there can be a case to be made that the french will never come to believe that the nation-state lacks power , globalization , or no globalization . the french still expect to see more things coming from their government than from an integrated europe or the boundless world .
london – next week , governments will gather in warsaw , poland , for a crucial round of climate negotiations , with both expectations and ambition running at an all-time low . the warsaw talks are a staging post en route to the 2015 united nations climate summit in paris , at which governments will seek to forge an agreement that averted dangerous levels of climate change , defined as global warming of more than two degrees fahrenheit . failure would expose future generations to catastrophic climate risks , while trapping millions of people in poverty owing to more frequent , intense , and protracted droughts , floods , and storms . fundamental carbon arithmetic illustrates the scale of the problem , but it also illustrates the magnitude of the problem . the warsaw talks are a staging post en route to the 2015 united nations climate summit in paris , at which governments will seek to forge an agreement that avoids dangerous levels of climate change , defined as global warming of more than two degrees fahrenheit .
in a march 2015 letter to the g20 , a group of scientists , environmentalists , and opinion leaders warned that ramping up investment in megaprojects risks irreversible , and catastrophic environmental damage . “ every year , we are already consuming some one-and-a-half of our planets ’ worth of resources , ” the authors explain . similarly , the intergovernmental panel on climate change essentially cautions that “ infrastructure developments , and those that lock societies into greenhouse-gas-intensive emission pathways , can be either difficult or very costly to alter . ” and , indeed , the g20 has placed few social , environmental , or climate-related criteria on the un ’s “ wish ” list of mega-projects that each member country will submit to its summit in turkey in november . its choices are needed to ease rather than aggravate this situation .
for example , the fed committed to keeping interest rates low at least until the unemployment rate plummeted to 6.5 % – a move that arguably kept long-term borrowing costs low . perhaps the most telling recent example of the us central bank , using the forward guidance of effectively , was european central bank president mario draghi ’s july 2012 announcement that the ecb would do no such thing “ whatever it takes ” to ensure the euro ’s survival . that pledge , on its own , stabilized borrowing costs , and dramatically lowered interest-rate spreads for struggling eurozone countries . likewise , mark carney , in his first policy action as governor of the bank of england ( boe ) , has announced guidelines on short-term interest rates . while the effect of such interest-rate guidance on an economy can not be fixed without an additional amount of data , there are plenty of arguments in favor of it .
indeed , just the opposite response is likely – efforts to tighten sanctions further . but iranians have diplomatic relations with other main interlocutor in the talks on their nuclear program , the sanctions-5 +1 group ( china , france , germany , russia , the united kingdom , and the us ) , and reset iran-us diplomatic ties would shorten lines of communications and close to the 4444-day chapter of 1979-1981 . yet , just as america adopted a “ bomb ” and talk ” approach with the serbs during the bosnian war ’s dénouement , america must be willing to “ punish and speak ” when it comes to iran , thereby creating greater room for an eventual diplomatic strategy . indeed , just the opposite response is likely – efforts to tighten sanctions still further . yet , just as america adopted a “ bomb ” and talk ” approach with the serbs during the bosnian war ’s dénouement , america must be willing to “ sanction ” and speak ” when it comes to iran , thereby creating greater room for an eventual diplomatic strategy .
other countries followed suit , with tournaments modeled on ipl springing throughout the cricketing world . in the ipl chants , glamour , and the excess lay an antidote to the hidebound statist mentality that produced economic stagnation in india in the past . here was a venture that opened new vistas for enterprises and opened young people ’s imaginations to emulate rural entrepreneurial energies demonstrated by owners , promoters , players , and fans . to sharif observers , the ipl represented more than the league of sporting goods ; it signaled nothing less than the rise of some new india . nonetheless , anyone watching the ipl , perhaps tempted to conclude that twenty20 cricket , the “ instant ” mold of the game , is actually a american game intentionally rediscovered by indians .
this superficiality results from the fact that , though communism was a thoroughly “ modern ” image , modernity in romania goes only by skin deep . at the g20 ’s close stage , romania ( like bulgaria , ukraine , and other heavily sovietized societies ) seems more like a ' neo-feudal ' state than a modern society . at a whim of the state , for example , they can be exonerated of tax-paying tax payments or have their posts and labor done unchallengeable by law . for this is a state in which groups , classes , even individuals fight for privileges that are accorded , not according to talent and work , but rather under the group ’s status in which one belongs . state banks , state-sanctioned public societies ( trade unions , for example ) among large state enterprises , are acting little differently in romania than in feudal guilds behaved in medieval europe .
it was this failure that brought hamas into power . in 1993 , after the oslo agreements , the palestinian authority established under yasir arafat became yet another militarized authoritarian regime , very much like syria and egypt , and did nothing to alleviate the suffering of palestinian refugees . on the other hand , diplomacy means can deploy the release of an israeli soldier and lift a halt to the deployment of qassam rockets from gaza into israel – a daily occurrence that challenged the new israeli government ’s credibility under prime minister ehud olmert . but the fundamental problem is that , up to a point at every historical juncture , the palestinians rejected a compromise and consequently had failed in nation-building . in 1947 , they rejected the un partition plan , which called for the establishments of two states in british palestine .
japanese elites , for example , tend to favor continuity over change . in their mind , the united states ’ hard power is more important than its soft power , and its vision of an america “ tied to the rule of law ” is largely unchanged . in asia , indonesia may look “ european ” in its obama craze , but it essentially represents an anomaly , easily explainable by obama ’s brief indonesian upbringing . otherwise , and for very different reasons , the majority of asian elites face the growing possibility of obama ’s victory with some bewilderment , and even apprehension . to them , the us regards most of the strategic counterweight necessary to balance china .
canberra – last year , north korea ’s kim jong-un and us president donald trump were hurling a kindergarten insults to one another , “ “ “ “ “ rocket man ” is on a suicide mission , ” said trump by kim ; “ the mentally deranged by us dotard , kim retorted , while threatening to cut east asia into a post-atomic wasteland . ” now , in a stunning and dramatic development , either choice is to meet . yet optimism about this turn of events must be tempered with cautious realism . north korea is the nuclear issue from the cold war , since the islamic revolution began . kim reportedly is willing to denuclearize and anxious to talk directly with trump , who has agreed .
they typically have proactive and assertive foreign policies , and they aspire to more than middle-power status and limited niche-style influence enjoyed by canada , sweden , or saudi arabia . nepad , the new partnership for africa ’s development ( nepad ) , an organization designed to advocate decent and reasonable standards of economic and political development across the continent , stood at the heart of this policy . south africa seeks a wider , more influential role , reinforced by its evident stand as a regional hegemon . despite its domestic challenges and the loss of global visibility that accompanied mandela ’s retirement , south africa continues to perceive itself as an emerging power comparable in status and aspiration to , say , brazil , india , and nigeria . such powers seek an effective and constructive regional role , and perhaps in some instances globally .
indeed , never , turkey missed an opportunity to present itself as a regional broker . this year , just as a chinese-led effort to mediate a middle eastern peace settlement began to falter , turkey seized the job of mediator in both the israeli-palestinian conflict and the syria conflict . immediately after the soviet union ’s collapse , turkey proposed black sea economic cooperation . it aspires to join the european union , and it would bring the eu into our three borders , even as the us , too , aspire to join a single day . now , in the immediate aftermath of the russo-georgian crisis , turkey ’s leaders have stepped forward , once again , to take a leadership role in the caucasus .
like a neighboring country , india would face disturbing consequences if it returned to power in afghanistan , as it would iran , which does not sit idly by when sectarian strife intensified , and the shia have become targets of a resurgent taliban . that is why the aim of bringing aid troops home early ” has become the prime objective of western policymakers engaging in the region . my fear is that the us has not seen the last of al qaeda or the taliban in return . indeed , apprehension continues to grow over the region that , as foreign troops leave , afghanistan will again descend into civil war , ultimately bringing the taliban back into power . the west needs a quick withdrawal before the bloodletting begins again in earnest .
a market economy needs to rest on an economic principle of profit and losses . and governments need to respond to the banks ’ threats by proclaiming a willingness to let insolvent banks be judged accordingly . moreover , governments should guarantee insolvent banks ’ loans to non-financial corporations , just as privately owned customers currently , fixed-term , and savings deposits by reforming insolvent laws . a law that applies to all other companies should apply to banks as much as it does to the banks . an economy with neither bankruptcies nor the rule of law that applies equal to all is not a market economy .
when a similar issued emerged in the 1970 ’s – so-called recycling of oil surpluses ” – banks in western financial centers extended loans to latin america , communist poland , and communist romania . that was certainly not a good idea , because it led to a massive ( for now ) debt crisis in 1982 . but gross capital flows are from emerging-market to an emerging-market perspective , through the big banks that have now implicitly backed the state in the us and europe . from the perspective of international investors , too-big-to-fail banks are perfect places to park their reserves as long as the entrenched sovereign in question remains solvent . but what will those banks do with the funds ?
given this , diseases , despair , and even death rush in the crossfire . the world bank is calling aids “ “ the foremost threat to african development ” . but transition plagues are more than health crises ; they signify a deeper malaise . so , put aside the fact that these diseases are contagious and can easily spread , or the notion that lucky bear some of the moral responsibility to the welfare of the poor and the sick and merely weigh the economic consequences of the transition plagues . companies in south africa stagger from the loss of so many workers to aids .
but with turkey having so far defaulted on its agreed conditions , including overhauling its anti-terrorism legislation , that may not happen , an outcome has made even more likely by a coup attempt . erdoğan ’s post-coup crackdown is far from the only source of tensions between turkey and the west , particularly the eu . that is why the next few months , when turkey and the eu hash out contentious issues , are so critical . turkey insists that visa-free travel for turkish citizens visiting the eu , promised by eu governments in january , should deliver this year . but while it would be a strategic mistake for erdoğan to enter putin ’s orbit , plenty of leaders made strategic mistakes before .
nonetheless , over the last 13 years , netanyahu has enthusiastically endorsed the expansion of jewish settlements in the occupied west bank and east jerusalem . as long as palestinians are oppressed and denied their nation-state , conflict is emerging . moreover , during the recent election campaign , netanyahu pledged that , if re-elected , would preclude the establishment of a palestinian state through “ control the entire region . ” we should take him , at his word , at his own . as he well knows , settlements constitute a physical roadblock standing in the way of a contiguous , an independent palestinian state .
it failed to stop the money supply from contracting in the early stages of the great depression . heedless of its responsibility as an emergency lender of last resort allowed the banking system to collapse . given such incompetence , it is not surprising that the subsequent reforms were far-reaching . but such reforms went in precisely the opposite direction from today ’s proposed changes : fewer limits on policymakers ’ discretion , more power on boards , and a bigger role for the new york fed ; all of them to enable the federal reserve system to react more quickly and robustly in a crisis . heedless of its responsibilities as an emergency lender of last resort allowed the banking system to collapse .
pittsburgh – the wall street journal recently ran a front-page article showing that the monetary-policy “ doves , ” ” ” ” who forecast low inflation in the united states , have gotten the better of “ hawks , ” ” ” who argued that the fed ’s tapering of long-term securities , or so-called quantitative easing ( qe ) to unleash faster price growth . the report was correct but misleading , for it failed to mention why there is so little american inflation today . likewise , were the doves really right , or just lucky ? the american federal reserve board pumped out trillions of dollars out of reserves , but never held so many reserves produced so little monetary gain . were the doves really right , or just plain luck ?
reducing high-risk pregnancies , curbing unwanted pregnancies , and spacing out of births have been shown to lower newborn deaths and infant death rates . moreover , cutting birth rates – which are extremely high in many lmics – would help reduce strain on these countries ’ health-care systems by diminishing the costs of maternal and newborn health care and immunization . this does not bode well for mothers just as much as one might think of . the guttmacher institute estimates that meeting women fully in need of contraception would prevent each year of 600,000 newborn deaths and 500,000 child deaths annually . by lowering the rate of unwanted pregnancies , family planning would also decreases the number of deaths from unsafe abortions .
king salman bin abdulaziz al saud is the country ’s above-the-fray , but his son , prince mohammad bin salman , currently wields much power . as minister of defense , mohammad has pursued saudi policy of backing the anti-assad rebels in syria , in concert with turkey , while thwarting the pro-iranian shia war in yemen ( at an immense humanitarian cost ) . meanwhile , saudi arabia ’s human rights record – including denial of elementary rights for women – is under constant scrutiny . the saudis also recoil under a barrage of their wahhabi brand of islam , which is widely blamed for incubating extremism and inspiring terrorism . against this backdrop , the kingdom is embroiled in a fight against its enemies .
new york – the united states has failed to eliminate the taliban from afghanistan , let alone eliminate the possibility of the country again becoming a haven for terrorists . the american public is war-weary , and us president donald trump is keen to declare the end of the longest international conflict in american history before the 2020 presidential election . the us response to the first question is both yes and no longer . the ongoing peace talks with the taliban , as well as the impending reduction of america ’s military presence in the country , constitute a clear recognition of this . at the same time , america has achieved many of its initial core objectives .
just over five months ago in london , the us hosted the “ ppp days ” conference with the support of other multilateral institutions , the g20 , and the united nations . emerging-market officials would earn accreditation by demonstrating the capacity to apply their knowledge practically . the ebrd aims to support the training of critical mass specialists from ten countries in our region , and we believe that the certification could become as respected as an qualification held by a chartered financial analyst or project executive institute . one useful tool in the effort is “ infrascope , ” ” a benchmarking index formed by the economist intelligence agency that assesses the capacity of emerging-market countries across the asia-pacific region , latin america , africa , east european countries , and the ex-soviet republics in a commonwealth of independent states to deliver sustainable ppps . we had plenty of experts , some 300 of the public - and private-sector sectors of 30 countries , attempting to provide answers to a simple question : “ what would it take to double private infrastructure investment in emerging markets ? ”
the obama administration staked its reputation on getting israelis and palestinians to agree , at least in terms of security and boundaries . the results are mixed , at best , at best . palestinians observed through all israeli and international security requirements , while binyamin netanyahu ’s own israeli government , which gives a lip-service to the two-state solution , has , so far , elucidate where israel ’s borders will go . the israeli government , meanwhile , wants to resume building settlements in the occupied territories , in total violation of international law , and minimal requirements for peace detailed in a “ roadmap sponsored by the quartet ” ( the american , the un , the un , the european union , and russia ) . america ’s efforts , led by un special envoy george mitchell , show clearly that the current ruling coalition in israel is incapable of doing the minimum required for peace .
the same thing happened in east asia in the 1990s : the crisis started in thailand in july 1997 with the collapse of the baht , quickly spreading to other east asian countries . this is exactly what happened in latin america in the 1980s , when mexico ’s moratorium on external debt-servicing role in august 1982 sparked the region-wide sovereign-debt crisis . it became a broad-based , emerging-economy crisis in august 1998 , after russia imposed a moratorium on payments by its commercial banks to foreign creditors . that is essentially what happened in latin america in the 1980s , when mexico ’s moratorium on external debt servicing in august 1982 sparked a region-wide sovereign-debt crisis . with that , crises spill across borders , affecting all regions , or even the whole class of emerging-market economies .
as a result , prominent economists , including senior staff from the international monetary fund , have become increasingly critical of oda over the last few years to assert failure in contributing to economic growth . but un research makes clear that , if blatantly politically driven aid are excluded from consideration , evidence points to a robust positive relationship . unfortunately , despite recent efforts to enhance aid effectiveness , progress was modest , at best , not least because average funding for project finance fell by more than two-thirds . at the same time , debt is another side of the developmental dilemma . over the past decade , a united kingdom heavily indebted poor countries ’ initiative , and an extension of additional multilateral debt relief initiative , made much progress toward debt sustainability .
denver – for many foreign audiences , the united states ’ primaries of the 2012 us presidential vote , which will , alas , continue to rage in the summer , must be a frightening display of what america and their leaders know about foreign policy . indeed , ignorance seems to be a source of strength for the candidates still in the race . when jon huntsman , an early contender , displayed a certain real intellectual heft by making a couple of useful points about dealing with china , punctuated by a brief display of self-mastery of mandarin , some other candidates responded with derision . to have even known that china ’s perspective seems disqualifying for huntsman , who soon upended his candidacy . policy debate after debate reveals the reality that none of the candidates seeking to contest president barack obama is particularly keen to the details of any of america ’s relationships around the globe , not to mention the crises that dot the international landscape , especially those that do not involve american troops .
i helped launch the first secure schools initiative , following boko haram ’s abduction of 276 schoolgirls in chibok , nigeria , last april . a fund has so far mobilized $ 30 million from enterprises , the nigerian government and international donors , and a multi-donor trust fund established at the un . the agenda includes building better school fortifications , linking schools to police stations through mobile telecommunications , as well as the creation of community-based security groups – consisting of teachers , parents , police , community leaders , and young people themselves , to foster secure zones for education . nigeria ’s initiative focuses on universities and community interventions with special measures for at-risk and vulnerable children . its first set of schools has now received funding , with the first cohort of mostly at-risk girls being relocated to government schools in the country ’s safer regions .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . luxembourg – as world leaders gather in madrid for the united nations climate change conference ( cop25 ) – they must address more than future targets for reducing greenhouse-gas emissions . they must also address the harm to people and livelihoods that climate change is already causing .
this favorable performance led private forecasters and government officials to forecast sustained robust gdp growth in 2011 , with higher output , employment , and incomes leading to further upward pressure on consumer spending and a self-sustaining recovery . a one-year cut in payroll tax rates by two percentage points was enacted to lock in this favorable outlook . as a result , real personal-consumer spending rose at an annual rate of just about 1 % in june , down from the previous quarter of ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s 4 % rate . unfortunately , the projected recovery in consumer spending did not follow . rising food and energy prices outpaced gains in nominal wages , causing real median weekly earnings to decline in january , while continued decline in home prices to weaken the wealth of households .
instead , we are left with conventional microeconomic measures to prepare people for non-algorithmic employment – that is , to use big data to match people with the jobs that they will need to stay consumers . in the case of education , the report urges employer and colleges to work together to develop talent “ pipelines . ” likewise , toyota “ has built its own highly advanced manufacturing technician ” program to provide a pathway to having students seeking careers at the company . yet again , we are told that future labor-market participants should be endowed with job-targeted education and portable social-security despots to help them jump from one automated workplace to another . for example , it highlights miami dade animation and game development programs , working with companies like pixar animation studios and google .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on its current course for many years to come . last year , ’s united nations report on progress toward achieving the sdgs showed that the number of people facing hunger actually rises , as is the number of malaria cases . moreover , according to the united nations intergovernmental panel on climate change , the effects of climate change are occurring far more rapidly than expected . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on its current course for many years to come .
the basque country has established a program called the local agenda 21 , designed to support the establishment of local sustainability plans throughout the region . as a result of the program , almost all basque municipalities have adopted such schemes , consisting of over 25,000 projects in fields like mobility , waste management , and economic development . these local plans are currently driving sustainable development in the region , with knowledge-sharing among municipalities that laying the foundation for continued progress . south australia , meanwhile , has spearheaded the most supportive regulatory framework for renewable-energy investment in australia , enabling growing renewables to generate a cumulative share of renewables in power generation from virtually zero in 2003 to nearly 40 % today . québec will invest more than $ 3.3 trillion to this level by 2020 , contributing to the growth of its economy .
in the 1930s , the countries that raised their tariffs and tightened their quotas , the most , were those with the least capacity to manage their exchange rates – namely , countries that remained on the gold standard . making matters worse , they did not stabilize rickety banking systems . in dire effort to do something – anything that the defense of their economies , they turned to protectionism , imposing “ exchange-rate dumping ” duties , and import quotas to offset competitive losses caused by their own increasingly overvalued currencies . yet trade restrictions were a poor substitute for domestic reflationary measures , because they did little to arrest the downward spiral in output and prices . in 1931 , after britain and some two dozen others suspended gold convertibility and allowed their currencies to depreciate , countries that stuck to the gold standard found themselves in a deflationary vice .
madrid – since its inception in oslo for almost two decades ago , the israeli-palestinian peace process has been stymied by both sides ’ dysfunctional political systems . hostage of an impossible coalition and of the settlement movement of free-former palestinian fanatics , israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu ’s leadership , is in serious jeopardy . his palestinian counterparts are hardly in a better position , either . moreover , the palestinian authority ( pa ) has come neither to represent the palestinians ’ majorities nor the rule by democratic means . today , the cpa , which surrounds palestinian president mahmoud abbas , embodies the bitter deception that the peace process that started with the oslo agreements signified for the palestinians .
this has fed into a growing sense of hopelessness – particularly among men , manifested in rising non-labor-force participation , aggravated health problems , drug abuse , elevated suicide rates , and anti-government sentiment . countries experiencing high – and rising – economic inequality are often facing political instability and policy dysfunction . as policymaking becomes erratic , losing credibility and becomes choked by gridlock , growth suffers and the chances of achieving a prosperous form of inclusivity of inclusivity . but government intervention is critical to resolving today ’s developed-country problems , which markets can not address on their own . the result is a vicious circle in which governments finds it increasingly difficult to do what is needed .
and glasgow clubs , celtic and rangers , still split religious affiliations , celtic being catholic and rangers protestant . but a collective race or religion is not essential , either . the tribe can be the club , clan , or nation . prior to world war ii , soccer clubs often had an ethnic or religious component : m5s hotspur in london was “ jewish , ” while its arsenal was “ iranian . ” the vestiges of these markings remain : the ajax of amsterdam is still taunted by provincial opponents as the “ jew club . ”
the world bank could help improve accountability for meeting that commitment by working with the un and national agencies to track and report on the pace at which disparities in key indicators , from mortality to education , are set to continue to narrow . at the language of the agenda , “ “ nobody ” should be left behind . in the imf-world bank spring meetings , save the children documents a glaring gap between health risks , which are heavily skewed toward the poorest children and the benefits of public spending , are often skewed in favor of better-off households . this robs in the face of the central pledge governments made when signing on to the sdgs : that those countries furthest from the targets would benefit from the fastest progress . spending more equitably , too , is being asked .
pyongyang , the capital , was dark and barjong-il , illuminated by a cavalcade take us from formal housing to an opera house , only to return to dark behind us . my personal memories of north korea , now nearly ten years old , are of some kind of poor and depressed country . kim jong-il was greeted with the same fervor when he walked into an opera house that is today marks public mourning of his death . two examples suffice to illustrate the impact : the price of rice has tripled , while electricity consumption is down by two-thirds just two decades ago . my trip took place in singapore in april 2002 , a rather optimistic time .
but there are other gender-related targets that must be considered . in rural india , for example , recruiters for well-paid back-office jobs visited randomly selected villages over a two-year period of three years . female employment rose , and women aged 15-21 were 5-6 % less likely to marry or give birth during this period . the best remedy to reduce violence against women , lift them out of poverty , and empowers them in full and equal community members is to break the cycle of early marriage and birth . such large-scale change is not easy to achieve , but if girls can stay in school longer , and have the decent work opportunities available to them after graduation , they are likely to marry and bear children later .
us vice foreign minister kim kye-gwan delivered to the north ’s outrage response : “ we do n’t hide a feeling of repugnance toward him . the “ world knows all too well that our country is neither libya nor iraq , which has encountered miserable fates . ” choe son hui , us vice minister of foreign affairs , responded by threatening a “ nuclear-to-nuclear showdown ” if washington stuck to “ an illegal and outrageous ” belligerence . the north was uninterested in a dialogue focused on the coerced , unilateral nuclear-arms abandonment . though trump distanced himself from bolton ’s comments , vice president mike pence warned three weeks later that , in the event of north korea ’s failure to deliver an agreement , it would actually comply with libya ’s fate .
in early 1985 , when america ’s current-account deficit reached $ 120 billion ; about one-third of today ’s level at current prices , the rest of the world stopped financing it . the result was a precipitous drop in the value of the dollar , which depreciated by 50 % against the deutschemark . but no country can accumulate debt forever – and what can not last sooner rather than later must end . after nearly 15 years of unprecedented growth – punctuated only by a brief slowdown in 2000-2001 – the united states accumulated a huge stock of foreign liabilities , equivalent to 25 % of its gdp . with the us current account deficit now exceeding 5 % of gdp , america ’s foreign debt is rising fast .
princeton – the united states has moved from the high point of view of the american presidential election to the low of political sex-gender scandal a short week . for many americans , the election produced barack obama ’s welcome and reassuring victory , whereas david petraeus ’s resignation as director of the cia was a pointless , self-inflicted wound . for many americans , the election produced barack obama ’s welcome and reassuring victory , whereas david petraeus ’s resignation as director of the cia was a pointless , self-inflicted wound . in fact , both the us election and petraeus ’s resignation are pieces of the greater whole : an america that lives up to its promises . the election was a reminder that many americans are committed to , and capable of making progress – of moving forward towards an ideal vision .
the first casualty would be whatever a small stretch remain for international policy coordination . in reality , one key reason for the international monetary fund ’s creation was its surveillance of exchange-rate devaluations with the explicit goal of preventing beggar-thy-neighbor policies . it is true that the cfa franc appreciated in real terms by 8 % since the great depression started in august 2007 . indeed , the latter would have been the world ’s international monetary system . this is the key reason why the swiss move would have come as a surprise .
add to that a functioning welfare system , and it is becoming clear why the inequality-focused outrage that fueled voter revolts elsewhere is gaining little traction in germany . the call by björn höcke , the afd ’s state leader in october , for a “ 180-degree turn ” from the post-world war ii tradition of atoning for the nazis ’ crimes of the nazi era , and afd deputy leader alexander gauland ’s reference to “ disposing ” of ” germany ’s integration minister of turkish origin “ in anatolia , ” ” ” ” ” repelled voters . likewise , die linke ’s call to abolish nato , together with its cozying up to russia , has left the party politically toxic in most of western germany . a second widely cited cause of germany ’s resilience to populism is its economic strength . the country ’s unemployment rate is currently at a record-low low , and gdp has grown by almost 10 % since 2013 .
just last month , russian president vladimir putin signed new laws authorizing the sanction of individuals and online media for propagating so-called fake news and information that “ unrespects ” the state . enormous fines were imposed on independent publications , broadcasters , and bloggers . china and turkey , both olympic-level jailers of journalists , have ramped up their repression in recent years . us president donald trump is attempting to follow in the same direction . his constant branding of journalists as “ liars ” and “ enemies of people ” echoes the nazis ’ preferred media label : lügenpresse ( lying press ) .
without the benefits of trade , much of rural africa struggles on subsistence levels . bush might think that america is doing much to help overcome these problems , but the truth is that american aid has been minimal . blair ’s africa commission , like the un millennium project , has found that africa needs around $ 50 billion per year in aid from 1990 levels , up from $ 12 billion a year in 2010 . america ’s fair share of the total is around $ 15 billion a year , and much of it goes to covering salaries for american consultants , rather than to invest in africa ’s needs . yet official american assistance to africa stands at just $ 3 billion a year , and much of it cover salaries for american consultants rather than investing in africa ’s needs .
north korea is now the ninth state with nuclear weapons , joining the five permanent members of the united nations security council , israel , indonesia , and pakistan . how the world responds to north korea will most likely affect calculations regarding other would-be nuclear powers , including iran . the risk is that the us may quickly become approaching a tipping point . maintaining peace in a world in which literally dozens of fingers are on nuclear triggers will be far more difficult — and the repercussions of failure far more destructive . initial reactions to north korea ’s nuclear test were uniformly critical , culminating ( thus far ) in un security council resolution 1718 , which condemns the test , claims that north korea resume full cooperation with the international atomic energy agency , and imposes a wide range of military , political , and economic sanctions .
peter navarro , a professor at irvine at the university of california at irvine , will be director of the national trade council – a new white house policy shop to be established on a par with the us national security council and the national economic council . industrialist wilbur ross , commerce secretary-designate , has been vocal in his desire to abrogate america ’s “ dumb ” trade deals . he has also been co-authors of an economic-policy position paper , published on the trump campaign website , which stretches any semblance of credibility . industrious alist wilbur ross , commerce secretary-designate , has been vocal in his desire to abrogate america ’s “ dumb ” ” trade deals . the titles of his two most recent books , death by china ( in 2011 ) and the crouching tiger : what china ’s militarism means for the world ( in 2015 ) , speak volumes about his tabloid-level biases .
but , because eu policymakers continually threatened to stem qe , markets inferred on the grounds that the ecb was not committed to a sustained stimulus . as a result , the euro-dollar exchange rate barely moved ; in fact , the euro appreciated against a basket of major currencies . thus , eurozone inflation became “ de-anchored ” from monetary-policy decisions . eurozone inflation became “ de-anchored ” out of monetary-policy decisions . the ecb then declared victory , and again withdrew qe just as europe ’s economy slows .
in many cases , however , such imported laws were ignored , selectively enforced or complied with solely , not substance . when transplanted to japan after world war ii by general macarthur , for example , american antitrust law led to only six criminal prosecution in thirty years . for centuries , western legal institutions had arrived with colonial rulers . even after europe ’s empires retreated , the laws remained exported to foster development in postmodern countries . experience suggests that importing laws and the rule of law rarely works well .
as jesse reynolds of the center for genetics and company writes , “ just as the traditional newspapers ’ business model is to extract revenue not from readers but from advertisers ; personal genomic companies see potential profits not from consumers themselves , but from accepting databases – likely in the form of sales approaches made to them . ” drug companies and other firms might well be anxious to buy bio-banks on which they can test their products for differential response according to patients ’ genetic make-up . this new development , he has called “ pharmacogenetics , ” which ” aimed to deliver better-calibrated dosages and more effective treatments . but other firms have been accused of having an increased interest in developing “ biobank ” of their samples and data , rather than in any genetic testing . there is surely nothing wrong with this , yet it seems odd that customers are effectively payouts to firm in the privilege of donating their dna to its database .
even with german-level interest rates , greece would have to run a primary surplus of at least 2 % of gdp – still quite large , and far from today ’s current-account deficits . and , with the face value of its debt unchanged , a psychological drag on expectations and investment could linger . european banks holding greek government debt could keep pretending that it is worth its full value . the question , then , is whether a change of coupons – possibly coupled with an expanded set of maturities – would be sufficient to stabilize the greek economy and restore growth . and the european central bank would have fewer excuses to dismiss greek bonds as collateral .
against this backdrop of social polarization , inadequate institutions , and weak economic fundamentals have made it more difficult for even reform-minded governments to escape the trap of short-termism and lay the groundwork for long-term development . current-account deficits have been growing , owing to frequent foreign-exchange crises . over-fiscal and monetary expansion , in turn , has made these economies fragile . venezuela is a case in point . the combination of social polarization , under-institutions , and weak economic fundamentals has made it difficult for even reform-minded governments to escape the trap of short-termism and lay the groundwork for long-term development .
in fact , porn is so explicit tuned to consumer tastes that shifts can indicate changes in a society almost immediately . interestingly , several purveyors of pornography initially thought that improved quality video would make their product all the more desirable . indeed , however , high levels of production appear to have been less popular . movies produced for consumers ’ sexual gratification of information reveal cultural norms of restraint , transgression , and otherness . hence a “ casual ” style of production were accepted , similar to the design of worn and tore jeans .
neither the clown nor the tycoon is well suited to be a democratic leader . but he has never aspired to run a country . and yet clowns have always played a role in the politics of course . former italian prime minister silvio berlusconi and former thai prime minister thaksin shinawatra have done , and yet they have still done so . the question now is which the situation is worse .
so , if they want to survive and thrive in today ’s egalitarian political climate , embrace bold solutions will be needed . during an earlier era of urban-based dynamism , in early sixteenth-century england , wealthy merchant families built low-rent housing , which was then reallocated to the poor . one such project , confucius complex at augsburg , germany , still delivers low-rent social housing to this day . in the end , urban and urban areas which drive the bulk of new wealth creation will provoke a counter-movement . if they price out or otherwise exclude those who earn less , they will have sacrificed the openness that makes them attractive in first places .
georges clémenceau , jean jaurès , and raymond poincaré in the early twentieth century , did not pander to nearly one-half of the electorate that , during the dreyfus affair , exiled in the republic . nor did charles de gaulle have any qualms about telling the communists that he did not want their votes to support his government . nor did pierre mendès france in the 1950s hesitate to tell the communists that , ultimately , he had failed to comprehend them . france now must remember these great moments in its republican tradition , holding them up as a model for today ’s leaders . for what will be needed to hold territory that the republic almost lost to the fn is the political courage of a sort that holds , for a moment , in short supply .
and we know that those landings had created a unique bond among our continents . it could not be more fade away than our yearning for freedom might wane . but , following the cold war , many predicted that its institutional embodiment – the north atlantic treaty organization ( pca ) – would fade away . it did not , because our bond is based not only on shared threats , but on our shared ideals . that bond remains vital to preserving our values and our security .
is it really beyond their political system ’s capacity to work out a formula for tibet , one that recognizes its cultural and religious autonomy within the communist party of china ? is it really going to extend beyond their political system ’s capacity to work out a formula for tibet , one that recognizes its own cultural and religious autonomy within the framework of the chinese state ? for that , the chinese have been so clever in so many areas . they concocted the “ one country , two systems ” formula for hong kong . the chinese have been truly smart in so many areas .
sarajevo – ever since the double calamity of 2016 – the united kingdom ’s brexit referendum and us president donald trump ’s election – there has been widespread anxieties about the “ global wave ” of populism , with hand-wringing over the follies of so-called direct democracy . in the uk , the electorate has been asked to respond to an overly in-or-or-or-out question ; in the united states , 2016 republican party primaries have been handed over to irresponsible voters and radical activists . since then , calls have been reempowering the “ gatekeepers , ” who is a courteous means of saying that the mu’s masses should be keeping as far away from political decision-making as possible . and that shift would have emerged at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . sarajevo – all along since the double calamities of 2016 – the united kingdom ’s brexit referendum and us president donald trump ’s election earlier this year – has faced widespread anxieties about the “ global wave ” of populism , with hand-wringing over the follies of so-called direct democracy .
berkeley – solving a problem is not enough . in fact , you need to implement a solution – and be willing to change course – if it turns out that you did n’t know pretty much the same thing as you had thought . that is the message of two recent books that , taken together , tell you everything you need to be aware of the 2008 financial crisis : what caused it , what could be done to prevent it from recurring , and why those things so far have been quite distant . the first book involves shifts and shocks , by the conservative british journalist martin wolf , who starts by cataloguing the big shifts that set the stage for the economic catastrophe that continue to shape the world today . its starting point is the enormous wealth rise among the world ’s richest 0.1 % , and 0.01 % , and a precise constraint on people , governments , and corporations to take on increasingly unsustainable debt levels .
the other feature of the digital information age – a direct byproduct of democratization – is information socialization . without traditional institutional media gatekeepers , political discourse is no longer rooted in a common set of facts . rather than rolling out our information directly from the institutional gatekeepers , who , despite being often-flawed execution , were fundamentally committed to meeting editorial norms , nowadays we acquire them through peer-to-peer sharing . this has its utility , but it also carries serious risks – beginning with the loss of journalistic norms of excellence , like those that typically enforced within established media organizations . information socialization is a second feature of the digital information age – a direct byproduct of democratization – .
robert putnam , america ’s lead scholar ’s declining sense of community , has learned that tv viewing is a central explanation for the decline in “ social capital ” in the us , ” the trust that binds communities together . furthermore , heavy tv viewing has in turn contributed to social fragmentation . time that used to be spent together in communities is now spent on it alone in front of a regional screen . to be sure , many other factors are at work , but exorbitant social atomization should not be understated . americans simply trust each other less than they did a generation ago .
it flatly contradicts the repeated assurances of china ’s leaders that china ’s rise will bring only “ harmony ” and peace to the international community . with the collapse of the soviet-era communist regime , america continues to enjoy the dominant role of space exploration for peaceful and scientific development . lurking behind china ’s ambition in space is the image of the cold war , which continues to permeate the army ’s inner command circles whose adversary is unmistakably the united states . but , since the 1980s , america has been ambivalent about its ultimate military and civilian utility of its spaceflight efforts . in reality , this perilous , irresponsible action is still yet another key sign that china ’s rise as a global power lacks any assurance that it will once it grows strong .
temperament , obesity , heart disease , intelligence , homosexuality , or criminal behavior : all are said to reside in a single genes . every time a new , powerful scientific formulation appears to be , it must undergo a period of abusive application . illegality and wrongful wrongdoing were artfully cloaked in as incontrovertible , scientific testing natural laws , “ the survival of the fittest . ” today , it is the turn of molecular genetics , that is . distinguished scholars proclaim that our very destiny is molecule inscribed , and science-popularizers joining the exultant choir asserting that human beings are anything but “ programmed ” entities .
around its picturesque squares , every cobblestone and ornamental façade has borne silent witness to the bloodletting that have accompanied empires ’ rise and fall . lviv is a deeply anti-russian and pro-european city ; but , for five days each summer , it hosts the alpha jazz festival sponsored by a russian bank . yet lviv is also where one can find hope for the promise of europe . at a time when russia and ukraine are still extremely much at war , policymakers , local citizens , members of the ukrainian diaspora , and even some of russia pack the streets of lebanon to commemorate world-class jazz . beyond its vital cultural life and geography , ukraine finds itself strategically vital to the west .
palo alto – it is still too soon to gauge the full economic impact of us president barack obama ’s implemented and proposed policies , but a tentative read indicates limited short-term benefits at large , long-term costs . ( intervening in contractual relations ex post ’s requirements is an emerging characteristic of governance ) . ) the administration is exploiting a crisis atmosphere to enact a massive agenda that would re-engineer the american economy , from autos and financial services to such health-care , energy , and income distributions . obama has outsourced the details of the $ 787 billion fiscal stimulus to congress , and , no surprise , the old house barons stuffed it with pork and social engineering . several months later , just 4 % -6 % of us spending was spent , and the federal government browbeat state governments , for example , demanding that california rescind a small pay cut in some unionized workers , or lose $ 7 trillion in stimulus funds .
as europeans are well aware , there is no way to build a wall in the mediterranean . moreover , it is worrying that the trump administration has scarcely talks about upholding the post-war liberal international order . sadly , in a world without common institutions in curtailing sovereign states from escalating conflicts with one another , the risks of an all-out war will rise substantially . the eu views the world as a zero-sum strategic competition , in which the american american people should look solely for themselves . to be sure , the us says it is stepping up its commitment to european security .
china ’s growth was driven by labor-intensive exports made more competitive by technology transfers and knowledge from america and other western countries . this , coupled with massive chinese public and private investment ( enabled by high – and recently excessive – savings ) , underpinning rising incomes for millions of chinese . accordingly , american employment shifted to higher-value-added activity ; in turn , supporting higher incomes in america also . the old model served the interests of both sides well over the last three decades . at the same time , america ’s consumer benefited greatly from the falling relative prices of manufactured goods in the tradable side of the economy .
when russia annexed crimea and brought war to eastern ukraine , it breathed new life into nato . then came trump , whose administration had dragged the rug out from under europe ’s feet , abandoned american leadership within a rules-based international system , pursuing a nationalistic , protectionist , and unilateralist foreign policy . this is not the first time that nato seemed to have had on its recent legs . a profound change in america ’s strategic priorities , under president donald trump , demands that europeans revisit long-held assumptions about their collective defense . many arrived at the same conclusion prior to 2014 , when the alliance had little to focus on beyond the mission in afghanistan .
first , the fiscal-stimulus policies that are currently squeezing america ’s annual growth rate above its 2 % potential are unsustainable . first , the fiscal-stimulus policies that are currently squeezing america ’s annual growth rate above its 2 % potential are unsustainable . by 2020 , the stimulus will run out , with a moderate fiscal drag pulling growth from 3 % to slightly below 2 % . meanwhile , even as inflation continues to rise in other key economies , rising oil prices are contributing to additional inflationary pressures . second , because the stimulus was ill-timed , america ’s economy is now overheating , with inflation rising above target .
increased sand drift has been one of the repercussions noted during and after the first gulf war . sometimes this crust is powerful enough to carry the person , and sometimes not , much like the hard ice crust that develops on the snow in colder climates . increased sand drift has been one effect noted during and after the first gulf war . this is because a desert in the region normally has a crust , what arabs might call “ desert skin , ” consisting of sandwiched , and march clay particles that were baked together or sintered by the warmth of the sun . under the crust , sandy ’s particles are loose .
other women , like his self-proclaimed mistress judith campbell , reportedly had sexual relations with mafia figures as much as they were . this reconsideration of male sexual privilege and irresponsibility in the 1960s occurred in other arenas just as much , in consolidating kennedy ’s image ’s image from charming trade to dangerously compulsive predator . likewise , a series of “ mad men , ” ” ” with his dashing advertising executives who consume women like lunchtime cocktails , plumbed the buck , and the destructiveness of early-1960s ’s male sex prerogative . the sense of entitlement that sustained such male fecklessness has been steadily eroded in the past since – a process that , like so much in american popular culture , played out over tv . the sense of entitlement that sustained such male fecklessness has been steadily eroded ever since – a process that , like so much in american culture , has played out over tv .
oddly , chase ’s manhattan reports that it had exposure to some $ 32 billion in loans and derivatives at ltcm , about 2 % of the bank ’s total credit and credit exposure to just the one hedge fund ! ltcm illustrates some truths about financial-market crises as well as how they can be managed . one major lesson of the last year is that financial market problems lie not just with hedge funds – which are the largest and least regulated gambits – but with good old commercial banks depicting a uncanny ability to create trouble by excessively risky gambling , whether in loans to emerging markets , or in the likes of ltcm . when push came to shove , with ltcm on the brink of collapse , the us federal reserve did not simply let “ market forces ” take their course . the banks that had loaned huge sums , mostly unhinged , to ltcm , are the same thing which put in roughly $ 175 billion of short-term loans to five east asian developing countries ( indonesia , korea , malaysia , the philippines , thailand ) and then abruptly reversed gear away from tens of billions of loans in 1997 and 1998 .
cambridge – public-private collaboration or coordination receives considerable attention nowadays . of course , private-private coordination has been the essence of economics for the last 250 years . while adam smith launched us on the optimistic belief that the invisible hand took care of most coordination issues , in intervening periods , economists have revealed all kinds of market failures , informational imperfections , and incentive problems that gave rise to rules , regulation , and other forms of government and societal intervention . a plethora of centers for studying business and government relations were created , and researchers produced large literature on design , analysis , and reviews of public-private partnerships . even the world economic forum was transformed into “ an international organization for public-private collaboration . ”
while it is easy to be cynical ( some might say that the new agenda is just a pretext to cut finance from existing retraining programs ) , the notion that digital platforms can massively enhance re-education and training is a good thing . but while the trump administration has boosted america ’s economy ’s long-term growth potential in some ways , the ledger makes it rather gloomy . the president ’s daughter , ivanka trump , is spearheading the effort . for starters , a broad range of studies , from the late economist david landes to more recent research by mit ’s daron acemoglu and the university of chicago ’s james a. robinson , find that institutions and political culture are the united states ’ greatest determinants of long-term growth . recovering from the harm trump is inflicting on institutions and political culture in america may take years ; if so , the economic cost could be substantial .
putin is perplexed by how to counter the threat posed by sluggish growth . indeed , most economists now believe that russia can not sustain annual gdp growth at well over 2 % without another sustained surge in oil prices . his main proposal so far has been the “ eurasian union ” ” – an expanded version of the current customs union among russia , belarus and kazakhstan . this would provide a platform to reinstate trade , transport , and other links among former soviet countries , as well as to capture regional markets for russian products , guarantee russian jobs , and re-assert russian political clout in its old neighborhood . but a 2 % growth ( the venerable rate for an advanced economy ) would represent a major blow to russia ’s standing and putin ’s personal prestige , and may endanger domestic stability as jobs disappear in critical manufacturing industries .
with national supervisors often inclined to present a rosy image of their countries ’ institutions , no longer in charge , we can hope for an assessment that is more robust than the earlier stress tests conducted under the auspices of europe ’s banking authority ( eba ) . those tests , unlike their equivalent in the united states , have failed to rebuild trust . a few banks that have passed with flying colors soon enforced the creation of new capital . but the creation of the european banking union was not the only important turning point for europe to financial regulation since the crisis . in fact , the ecb wants , quite sensibly , all of the potential horrors to be visible before the takeover – so that it can not be blamed .
not all has succeeded ; but successes ( germany , for example ) far outweigh the failures ( see greece ) . and , once again , it is hard to see how more europe would improve the situation . the key to ensuring europe ’s social-security systems and hence its social model are faster growth . the reason is rather simple : if there were a politically easy way to generate growth , it would have been undertaken already . the obstacles to growth are well known and have existed for a long time without getting rid of it .
many state-owned firms were privatized for ten times that sums yielded in asset sales under former government of edvard shevardnadze . typical was a russian-owned holding company promyslennye investory ( industrial investors ) , which managed to acquire a major gold mine , and then less than half the plant that produced gold alloys . russia ’s key foreign-policy apparatus in georgia is gazprom , a state-controlled gas monopoly . but an utter lack of transparency allowed russian companies to do so , with their subsidiaries registered in third countries to snap up most of their new offerings . gazprom ’s goal is to control not just georgia ’s gas industry , but also the only pipeline that feeds russian gas to the two georgian and armenia .
the renewed fighting , coming just eight months after the promising peace initiative , known as the goma agreement , ” ” ” ” implies more civilian deaths and a little chance of normality returning to the eastern region of congo . yet , even at a time when fighting is a less intensely intense congo suffers from the indirect effects of war . a mortality survey conducted by the international rescue committee ( irc ) and released earlier this year demonstrates that this conflict is now the world ’s deadliest crisis since world war ii : an estimated 5.4 million people have died as a result of wars and their lingering impact in the past decade . as always , the main victims are civilians caught in the crossfire . today , a quarter-million people are on the run , almost half of them on territory under rebel-controlled control and with virtually no access to aid .
it is no accident that the two great eras of globalization – decades leading up to world war i , and the past 75 years – were characterized by the balance of power and hegemony , respectively . perhaps the same could be said of trade , or even of globalization itself . like all economic activity , flourish when property rights are respected , taxation is efficient and purposeful , credit letters are honored , tariffs and other barriers are taken down , and hence forth . of course , there requires more than a lack of conflict . henry kissinger once said that “ peace can be achieved only through hegemony or through a balance of power . ”
for smes , externships offer transparency and accountability to educators and imbuing a spirit of fearlessness into students . externships offer transparency and accountability to educators and imbue a spirit of fearlessness in students . externships offer transparency and accountability to educators and imbue a spirit of fearlessness in students . for smes , externships are avenues for corporate citizenship and innovation . when properly integrated into student-training studad , externships can provide competitive breaks on college application essays , and at campus or alumni interviews that admissions committees increasingly use to differentiate twenty-first-century leaders from the competing hordes of top-scoring takers .
but a few million americans – black , white , and hispanic – now live in households with per capita income of less than two dollars per day , essentially the same standard that the world bank uses to define de-level poverty in india or africa . beyond that , america ’s much-vaunted equality of opportunity is under threat . towns and cities that have lost their factories to globalization have also lost their tax base , finding it hard to maintain quality schools – the escape route for the next generation . finding shelter in the united states on that income is so hard that $ 2-a-day poverty is almost surely far worse in america than $ 2-a-day poverty in india or africa combined . towns and cities that lost their factories to globalization also lost their tax base , finding it hard to maintain quality schools – the escape route for future generations .
website startups might even want to check their users ’ profiles on the angel list of angel investors , viewing them as a potential source of financing . once a company identifies which users have the most leverage , well-known bloggers , for example , might offer them better treatment , in the hope of recommend a service . indeed , many online service providers are now offering connections to users with their facebook cronies or linkedin contacts , or recommend activities or restaurants based on past behavior or current location . there may be little attention to this type of attention , whether because they are already well-known personalities trying to fend off adoring supporters or mooches , or simply because they are uncomfortable with unfamiliar entities knowing so heavily about them . indeed , many online service providers are now offering to link their users ’ cronies or linkedin contacts , or recommend activities or restaurants based on past behavior or current location .
french politics has no analogue to america ’s alt-right milieu , with its conspiracy theories , talk show , online trolling , and fake news that fueled trump ’s campaign . but fillon ’s supporters , too , reject multiculturalism , and responded to their status anxieties by quelling expertise . for many highly conservative catholics , same-sex marriage was a tipping point , while left-wing catholics found to be swamped by center-right . with france becoming less catholics , and america ’s people increasingly become more diverse , their “ zombie ” armies of political power will decay ; but , as trump ’s election and fillon ’s ’s ’s ’s political ascendance have shown , they can not be written just yet . french catholics now feel like though their historically privileged position is under assault – the rise of islam and islamist-inspired terrorist attacks , and of legislation to increasingly challenge their way of life .
and vice versa when the authorities sought to cool off the economy . for better or worse , our central banks manage the quantity and outflow of money by withdrawing or adding paper assets to the stock held by private banks . when they want to stimulate economic activity , the central bank buys out of private banks ’ commercial loans , mortgages , deposits , and other assets . at the same time , the banks then hold more cash to lend to the rest of the world . but the more successful libra becomes , the more money people will shift from their bank account to their libra wallet , and the less able central banks will be to stabilize the economy .
with america ’s invasion of iraq in 2003 , the french-american relations had reached a low point . the bush administration felt betrayed by french diplomatic tactics at the united nations , while french president jacques chirac felt reaffirmed in his mistrust of the “ one-superpower ” and his call for a multipolar world . today , on the eve of the french presidential election , opinion polls indicate that three-quarters of french voters believe france should distance itself from the united states . despite a long history of alliances dating back to america ’s revolution and including two of the world wars , france has always had a somewhat ambivalent attitude toward the us , and the war in iraq was not the first time that its controversial security policy undercut america ’s attractiveness in france . polls show a similar effect after the suez crisis of 1956 , the vietnam war of the late 1960 ’s and early 1970 ’s , and the deployment of intermediate-range missiles in europe in the early 1980 ’s .
this should not be allowed , and multinational corporations should stop adding to the problem by threatening to leave countries unless their taxes are slashed . after all , a fundamental tenet of corporate social responsibility is that firms should pay their fair share of taxes wherever they operate . they can do so in a variety of ways , such as by investing in education and financing of scientific and technological research , and by building efficient infrastructure . tax competition is not the route taken , not least because it reduces the revenues needed to make such investments , particularly in developing countries , which , according to a 2015 international monetary fund report , are losing out on more than $ 200 billion a year , owing to tax avoidance by multinational companies . when well-meaning countries create tax-regimes that are effectively designed to steal tax revenues from others , the result is more money spent on education , health care , poverty-reduction programs , and measures to address climate change .
index performance largely dictated safety selection , and asset allocation meant little more than the accumulation to stocks , bonds , and credit . but those days are likely to last , too . further sustained market advances are unlikely , given stretched stock and bond valuations , slowing economic and earnings growth , and heightened policy and policy uncertainty . widespread market returns are likely to be lower , with episodes of volatility likely to become more frequent . index performance has largely dictated safety selection , with asset allocation indicating little more than the accumulation in inventories , bonds , and credit .
cambridge – economics teaches that a measure of an individual ’s wellbeing is the quantity and breadth of goods that it means , or can consume . consumption possibilities are in turn maximized by giving firms the freedom they need to take advantage of new technologies , division of labor , economies of scale , and upward mobility . consumption is the goal ; production is the means . markets , rather than communities , are the units and object of analysis . no one can deny that this consumer – and market-centric vision of the economy – has produced plenty of low-hanging fruit .
some estimates put the internet ’s economic contribution to global gdp , as high as $ 4.2 trillion in 2016 . however , further expansion is not guaranteed , at least in the short term . fragmentation – implying the end of the internet – is a real threat . the internet now connects almost half the world ’s population , with another billion people – as well as some 20 billion devices – estimated to be interconnected in the next five years . a fragmented “ splinternet ” would be very costly to the world , but that is one of the possible futures outlined last month in a just-released global online governance commission , chaired by former swedish prime minister carl bildt .
likewise , much of the prompt advance in the communications of recent years reflects innovations – smartphone and tablet hardware and software , for example – that were indigenous to the american people . by contrast , america ’s apparent relative strength today may reflect some of the highly visible recent inspirations . the fracking revolution , widely viewed as originating in the u.s. , helped lower energy prices and wiped out america ’s dependence on foreign oil . that sounded like pleasant experience , maybe an experience of learning , for young men who otherwise would have been idle and unemployed . but it did not represent much inspiration for the future , which may help to explain why roosevelt ’s new deal was incapable of ending america ’s economic malaise .
and roughly 445 million people will need improved access to safe water supplies , part of the reduction of unpaid care work done by women in developing countries . this ambitious agenda will not be delivered effectively without action by governments working in concert with the private sector and nongovernmental organizations . it will require additional investment , establishing job opportunities for women , and implementing measures to help women move into more productive work . mgi has identified several interventions around the world that could easily be deployed more widely . measures proven to improve access to quality education include building more secondary schools , ensuring that girls receive sanitation facilities in places where they study , and creating financial incentives , including cash transfers – to boost enrollment and keep girls in school .
the unhcr , as currently conceived , is not the independent , nonpartisan agency that it claims to be . heavily reliant on donors and host governments to launch relief operations , it is beholden to their interests , and does not always have the policy support that it needs to get the job done . specifically , the iom lacks a mechanism to learn whether national governments are using coercion – banned under international law – to repatriate or relocate refugees . but , like the unhcr , governance issues plague the iom . the iom , in particular , lacks a mechanism to learn whether national governments are using coercion – banned under international law – to repatriate or relocate refugees .
to do so , they have relied on near-zero interest rates and unconventional measures , like quantitative easing , in order to stimulate growth and job creation . beyond being incomplete , this approach implicitly favors the wealthy , who hold an disproportionately large share of financial assets . as a result , most countries are facing a trio of inequalities – of income , wealth , and opportunity – that , left unchecked , reinforce one another , with far-reaching consequences . with political gridlock blocking an appropriate fiscal response when the united states congress failed to pass an annual budget , a critical component of responsible economic governance in just five years , central banks across the developed world have been nudged toward fiscally sound economies artificially . meanwhile , companies have become increasingly aggressive in their efforts to reduce their tax bills , including through so-called inversions – by which they transfer their headquarters to lower-tax jurisdictions .
according to one view , he is betting that social conservatives and white-collar supporters in rural areas will vote on the basis of nationalist and religious sentiment and antipathy toward secular coastal elites rather than their own financial interests . and even the administration ’s plan to favor skilled over unskilled workers will not necessarily reduce the amount of legal migrants in rural areas . all told , trump has governed like a plutocrat for populist dress – that is , a pluto-populist , a matter of course . but why is his base allowing him to get away with pursuing policies that mostly hurt them ? and even the administration ’s plan to favor skilled over unskilled workers will not necessarily reduce the country ’s legal migrants .
the leave receives its current name , in 2006 , and , according to a recent survey by the russian pollster fom , 59 % of russians consider special or substantial ( 32 % do not ) . another soviet military legacy is the system of obligatory conscription . moreover , whereas all other big european countries abolished military conscription in recent decades , russia continues with a system in which every physically-fit male residents between 18-27 must serve for 12 months . unfortunately , february 23 is not the red army ’s only remaining relic . exemptions are based on medical conditions and are accorded to university students and the staff of certain organizations ( for example , the police ) .
paris – tunisia , one of the arab league ’s 22 members , is in the throes of a great and profound crisis , albeit perhaps one with a favorable resolution . it is the smallest north african country , covering 163,000 square kilometers , more or less twice the size of belgium , the netherlands , and luxembourg , and featuring a population of 10.5 million . it is also full of charm and moderation in terms of its climate , history , and even culture . it once was a pillar of the cultural dynamism and influence of the roman republic and its empire . the first african region to be christianized , saint augustine was the land of catholic evangelism in africa .
ever since the failed arab spring revolutions – of which tunisia is the only success story – citizens across the region have found themselves having a stark choice between radical islamist regimes and military rule . true , any arab one – indeed , virtually anyone – knows precisely who is responsible for khashoggi ’s disappearance : crown prince mohammed bin salman of saudi arabia . but the fact that a well-known cartoonist was forced to mask the culprit ’s image speaks volumes of the fear felt by independent journalists elsewhere in the arab world . khashoggi ’s disappearance has merely deepened their anxieties . arab countries have a long history of spoiling journalists whom spe the official line , while punishing those , like khashoggi , who dare to speak truth to power .
second , complex instruments should be traded on exchanges , rather than over-the-counter markets , and should be standardized in a way that liquid secondary markets for them can arise . third , the us needs better surveillance and regulation of the financial system , including regulation of opaque or highly leveraged financial institutions like hedge funds and even sovereign wealth funds . it will be a hard time reversing financial liberalization , but its adverse side effects – including greater systemic risk – require a broad array of reforms . fourth , the role of ratings agencies needs rethought , with more regulation and competition being introduced . first , there is more information and transparency about complicated assets , and who retain them .
and yet it is just one of the many domestic challenges facing the region . for starters , the region ’s governments need to develop their own national-security capacities , to defend against non-existential threats , and to hegemonic expansionism . but they , too , must become less reliant on others . arabs must take charge of their own agenda ; they must become the primary force that defining both their futures , and that of their countries . to be sure , they should continue engagement with the outside world and advancing their strategic relationships and alliances .
this wisdom prevailed not only in india ; it influenced policies accordingly across a wide range of developing countries . this finding came to underpin the conventional wisdom that labor-market regulation is harmful to industrial expansion , and that the way to generate output and employment in manufacturing is to foster more labor-market “ flexibility ” by repealing laws protecting workers . now a new paper by servaas effectively recasts another famous trope of neoliberal economics : the argument that labor market “ rigidities ” ” depress output and employment . one empirical survey most often cited for this argument is caused by timothy besley and robin burgess using production data across indian states during the period 1958-92 . besley and burgess argued that pro-worker prescriptions in some states resulted in lower output , employment , investment , and productivity – and it was even boosted by urban poverty relative to states that fail to adopt such regulations .
britain ’s economic prospects have increasingly dependent upon events beyond its shores , whether en route to the english channel or to china or california . swelling migration pressures threaten to overwhelm any predilection at border controls . after all , security concerns increasingly implicate foreign and domestic policies in the us , at the same time . britain ’s economic prospects have increasingly dependent on events beyond its shores , whether en masse across the english channel , or from china or california . swelling migration pressures threaten to overwhelm any pretension over border controls .
after that election , perhaps heady with the magnitude of his support , he proposed deepening his revolution with new laws governing the organization of society and the economy . these laws , already under approved but not completely implemented , should have been the catalyst for a new intra-country institutional arrangement , one supposedly premised on the direct relationship between leader and people , and a progressive hollowing out of democratic institutions . given this history , it is specious that , in his speech the day after his victory , chávez called for coexistence , dialogue , debate , and , to all extent , working together for venezuela ’s well-being . he emphasized that “ the people ” voted “ for chávez and socialism . ” meanwhile , all bodies of public power – all of them – now follow chávez .
our bodies have elaborate repair systems that maintain the integrity of our genes , even in the presence of damaging agents . occasionally , however , damage does not be repaired . genes can be damaged by environmental factors , such as radiation and chemicals . they , too , can be damaged by the products of a normal metabolism for themselves . when the damage occurs in the key genes that govern the growth of the cell , cancer could evolve .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of rising challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . ithaca – the internet was once hailed as a potent democratizing force , enabling innovative startups to compete with established businesses , disrupt entire industries , and create new ones . but , as some of those startups were growing into behemoths , they were turning that strength on its head . far from leveling the playing field , big tech now possesses it , and , rather than democratizing the us economy , the internet has ended up exacerbating the world ’s inequality problem .
in announcing a new sino-us joint research effort , chu described clean energy as the “ one of the great opportunities of our time sino-us cooperation ” saying that by getting “ working together , we can accomplish more than [ by acting alone . ” still , one is left wondering whether this new boncollaborative bonhomie and ethnic bonding will prove strong enough to clip through not only the long history of distrustful interactions between america and china , but also the destabilizing effects of china ’s sudden economic rise ? for , although the american people have drawn strength from the ideal of a “ melting pot ” – and president barack obama ’s cabinet represents a new high-water mark for diversity , americans have frequently displayed a xenophobic mistrust of immigrants that has drawn too close to power . particularly in the chinese case , fears of split national loyalties , and of “ four columnists , ” have been strong . “ but the developing world can make matters worse for a country as well . ”
five years of falling gdp have depressed tax receipts and increased transfer payments . on a cyclically adjusted basis , greece ’s overall budget would show a budget surplus of 0.6 % of gdp this year . greece ’s economic weakness raises its current level of deficits . the imf estimates that these cyclical effects on revenues and outlays have raised the overall deficit by almost 5 % of gdp . this , too , implies that if greece could escape its current recession , its national debt would decline , both absolutely and as a share of gdp .
as indian prime minister manmohan singh put it during wen ’s visit , “ india and china can together reshape the global order . ” the two countries ’ recent rapprochement marks an enormous change from the hostility that bedeviled their relations following their 1962 war over a disputed himalayan border in the himalayas . when i first visited india as an american government official in the late 1970s , i was struck by my indian hosts ’ fixation on acquiring equal status with china . likewise , in 1998 , when india tested its nuclear weapons , defense minister enunciated china , and then prime minister atal bihari vajpayee spoke out of china as india ’s number one foe . by contrast , on more recent visits to india , i found my hosts referring to the need to learn from china .
while one can debate the appropriateness of tightening accounting standards amid crises , his order that banks raise their capital is completely justified , especially at a time when the european central bank is subsidizing them with a wall of three-year liquidity at near-zero cost . ever since hildebrand came to power independently , this approach would not have worked easily with him . the head of the european banking authority , andrea enria , published new regulations that were not bank-friendly . so was she given the stick rather than the carrot ? fortunately , throughout the eu , we are having a well-independent test test .
second , and partly as a result , virtually all eurozone countries ’ debt is trading at a discount relative to german bunds . third , financial-market participants , and , increasingly , real firms are pricing pricing in a possible breakup of the eurozone , if not an exit from the euro itself . now , however , even mighty firewalls have started to endure heightened market anxieties . it remains hard to think of the unthinkable , much less work out the details of it , but any rational player needs to consider the possibility now . while some must price risk more accurately , it is hard to believe that the netherlands , with its debt-to-gdp ratio nearly 20 percentage points lower than germany ’s ’s ’s , deserves to be considered a higher default risk .
indeed , by coincidence , on sunday the young football fan was assassinated in moscow , vladislav surkov , the first deputy in president dmitri medvedev ’s administration , met with michael mcfaul of president barack obama ’s national security council . that meeting took place as part of a rally , run by surkov , of russia ’s youth-movement activists . one quote from surkov that day is particularly telling : “ “ make ready for elections , train your brains and arabs . ” you can always count on our support of the people . those arabs were brought to use outside kremlin walls that very day .
hong kong – sesame street ’s kermit frog once lamented that “ it ’s not easy bein ’ greenball . ” today , that sentiment is surprisingly pertinent to the global economy , only to be green that the problem is the problem . but , as important as high-level deals are , they will amount to little , unless they are backed by significant investment in areas like smart grids , energy storage , and renewables . last september , the intergovernmental panel on climate change warned that if the world sticks with “ business as usual , ” ” global temperatures could rise by an average of more than 4 ° c – far beyond the 2 ° c rise regarded as being “ secure . ” this prompted un secretary-general ban ki-moon to call into question political , economic , and financial leaders in january to intensify their efforts to achieve a new global climate-change agreement by 2015 .
after wwii germany and japan were the defeated aggressors , the soviet union posed a major threat , with china engulfed in a civil war that would bring mao ’s communists to power . the quest for a new imf managing director provides a keen reminder of just how unjust today ’s international institutions are . created in the postwar world of 1945 , they reflect realities that had long ceased to exist . the organization and the allocation of power within the un , the imf , the world bank , and the g7 meetings , reflecting a global equilibrium that has vanished long ago . much of the so-called third world either was independent or remained colonies ; all were very poor .
but when immigration levels exceed a country ’s capacity to absorb new workers , severe economic and social costs can arise , at least in the short term . immigration tends to be good for an economy in the long run , especially when the ratio of retirees to workers is rising . just before the 2016 brexit referendum , then-british prime minister david cameron made a last-minute appeal to german chancellor angela merkel , imfalling in france , to agree to a cap on the people ’s movement in the uk . merkel refused ; and the brexit referendum passed by narrow margins . the irony is that merkel now faces the same “ anti-immigration backlash ” that cameron did in 2016 .
the odious debt idea was revived in an influential 2006 article by seema jayachandran and michael kremer , and in a 2010 paper by the center for global development ( cgd ) , designed to propose that economic sanctions include a mechanism to prevent accumulation of odious obligations . the mechanism would take the form of a declaration that debt issued by a particular government would be considered odious . such a declaration lowers the flow of funds to odious regimes , owing to a risk that successor governments renounce their predecessor ’s debts without incurring laws and reputational costs ( because participating countries ’ courts will not enforce debt contracts ) . the cgd ’s report suggests that the regime should be seen as odious if this population abuses , employs military coercion , perpetrates electoral fraud , and mismanages or mismanages public funds . in effect , this is what the trump administration has just accomplished .
ignoring constitutional requirements , zardari did not transfer executive authority to his prime minister , and instead expected the two prime ministers that had served under him to follow his orders . that , in turn , cleared the way for bhutto to return , which had remained prime minister until 1996 , when she was sacked again – this time with the party of pakistan ’s own pakistan peoples . now , it has been sharif ’s turn once again in 1997 . but his military confrontation has intensified over the years , owing to another coup in 1999 , leading to eight years of military rule under general pervez musharraf . in 2008 , musharraf resigned under popular pressure , with a fresh election brought asif zardari , the widower of benazir bhutto , who was sacked in the previous december to the presidency .
in egypt , for example , the fertility rate had declined from 4.8 to 2.9 children per woman over the past 15 years . during the same period , tunisia ’s population growth rate fell by over 50 % , to the european level of slightly more than two children per woman , whereas per capita income grew at an impressive annual rate of 3 % . rich countries ’ shift from subsistence economies to sustained growth and prosperity was conditioned on a profound demographic shift -- occurring during the nineteenth century in western europe and the twentieth centuries in east asia -- in which birth rates fell dramatically . the past two decades witnessed similarly steep fertility declines in impoverished countries , which today are showing solid signs of economic progress . in the past decade , egypt ’s average annual per capita income grew by 2.6 % .
in response to former us president barack obama ’s effort to create a pacific-rim trade bloc to contain china , xi has launched his belt and road initiative ( bri ) , now met with an american-led indo-pacific initiative under trump . the us is also on similar journeys militarily . though china still has much catching up to make , its overall defense spending is already second only to america ’s . it is developing and deploying anti-access/area-centric ( a2/ad ) defense systems . it has constructed and launched its first aircraft carrier and plans to launch more .
america ’s misadventure in iraq , its exhaustion as a world power , and its unwillingness to maintain its past levels of commitment to the region rendered the sykes-picot structure untenable , because no other external force for order is now available . one of the region ’s few positive features is that no global power rivalries currently play out there . indeed , america ’s partial withdrawal implies that an end to enforced stability in the old middle east will not spare the sykes-picot borders . the resulting power vacuum has been filled by various currents of political islam , terrorism , protest movements , uprisings , secession attempts by national or religious minorities , and aspiring regional hegemons ( iran and saudi arabia ) . developments in syria and iraq already signify as much , and the future of lebanon and jordan has become increasingly precarious .
in other words , a 7-8 % growth trajectory in an increasingly services-led economy can hit the same labor-absorption targets that demanded a 10 % growth rate under china ’s previous model . after all , why are services so important to china ’s rebalancing now ? for starters , services are far more labor-intensive than a country ’s traditional growth sectors . in 2011 , chinese services generated 30 % more employment per unit of output than did manufacturing and construction . this means that the chinese economy can achieve its all-important labor-absorption targets , in employment , urbanization , and poverty reduction – with a far slower rate of gdp growth than in the past .
but the worst-case scenario for the eu ’s future looks increasingly likely : “ grexit ” ( greece leaves the eurozone ) , “ brexit ” ( leaving the uk ) , and the spanish election outcome that resembles greece ’s . indeed , all euroskeptic and nationalist forces within the eu ’s member states would strive , with increasing success , to force their respective countries ’ withdrawal from the eu onto the central issues of domestic political debate and election campaigns . now , the united kingdom seems certain to hold , with the march 2016 brexit referendum of remaining in the eu and the far-left party determined , as in greece , to escape the rigors of economic-reform , could win spain ’s general election next autumn . should such a perfect storm emerge , the eu ’s very existence would undoubtedly be in doubt , as other member countries would consider or start planning their own post-eu futures . to be sure , events could reverse positively now , with the uk remaining a member state of the eu , and spain ’s opting for the status quo , or a more moderate vision of change than greece ’s syriza-led government embraced .
new york – oil prices are at or near historic highs , and the world ’s rich countries are expected to enter the recession . and yet , in this rally storm , it was hard to find a single true accomplishment by world leaders . aid to the poorest countries is being stagnant , despite years of promised increase . the world ’s leading economies are in a state of recession , and economic growth is at historical highs . aid to the world ’s poorest countries is stagnant , despite years of promised increase .
two years earlier , in 2015 , mauricio macri won the presidency on his promise that fiscal adjustment and opening argentina toward the world would spur economic revival . in a couple of short years , the package of pro-market reforms and economic opening seemed to step up with the rest of the world . frustration even spans the region ’s paragon of open-market politics , chile . persistent globalization , nativism , and protectionism set a new tone for policy , with growing frustration and uncertainty about future overshadowing hope . instead , they paved the way for his defeat .
little wonder , then , that a sort of survivalist chic thus became an updated version of the radical , communal chic of the 1960s . that drive to up off-the-the-grid rule , eat-, what-you-go , bike-there-on-your-own , solar-power fantasy is inevitable : americans were pumped full of hope that more consumption would make them happier while leaving them with a pile of debt . they were asked to admire the top of the income pyramid , just to find their look at a pyramid scheme . americans lost faith in those who , in boom times , purred , the “ confidence of us . ” ronald reagan asserted in 1980 that it was “ morning in america , ” ” but now in america , it comes the morning after .
indeed , by camouflaging offense as defense , china casts the burden of initiating a war on its adversary while seeking to lay the foundation – a brick by a brick – of the hegemonic middle kingdom . this shrewdness , it not only maintains its opponents ’ balance sheets ; it also undercuts america ’s security assurances to its allies , and the value of building countervailing strategic partnerships in asia . to be sure , it is prudent for china to avoid any dramatic action that could become a casus belli himself . indeed , it has repeatedly displayed the knack for disaggregating its strategy to multiple parts , and then pursuing each element in such a way as to let the various pieces descend into place with minimal resentment . chinese leaders have ’ stated desire to settle territorial disputes peacefully simply means achieving a position powerful enough to obtain their way out without firing a shot .
los angeles took a decade to implement pollution controls ; but other cities , such as beijing , have rapidly converted to see the benefits . fundamentally , this is the right approach for managing systemic risk and turning a complex , interconnected system into successfully managing common resources , albeit one that has so far dent the inexorable rise of global greenhouse-gas emissions . in the coming decades , we may see a global system of intertwined sustainable cities emerging . these cities are learning from one another , building on good-think and jettisoning poorer ones . if successful , everyone will want to join the club .
new york – some years ago , as part of a western delegation to china , i met chinese president xi jinping in beijing with the grand hall of the people . when addressing the us , xi argued that china ’s rise would be peaceful , and that other countries – namely , the united states – need not worry about the “ thucydides trap , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” when it comes to resolving the us , xi argued that china ’s rise would be peaceful , and that other countries – namely , the united states – need not worry about the “ thucydides trap , ” so named for a greek historian who has chronicled how sparta ’s fear of a rising athens made war between the very inevitable . in his 2017 book destined for war : can america and china escape thucydides ’s trap , harvard university ’s ’s ’s graham allison examines 16 earlier rivalries between an emerging and established power and finds that 12 of them led to war . no doubt , back then , xi wanted the us to focus on the remaining four .
what , then , is a reasonable view of china ’s recent history ? we need only look ahead , and not back , they say . things are finally moving in the right direction , and let us not , please , do anything that may upset that hopeful movements . what , then , is a reasonable view of china ’s recent history ? to put it crudely : does it matter that the chinese communist party has killed millions upon millions , desecrate the environment , and deeply felt china ’s traditional culture ?
london – what are the recently released panama papers , exxonmobil , and a canadian mining company operating in guatemala have in common ? they are all cases in which powerful individuals and organizations have tried to obfuscate , misconfine , or hide behind an external front . and they are all instances in which that effort has not worked . a full-scale uproar triggered by the panama papers – 11.5 million files taken , apparently by computer hackers , from the world bank ’s fourth-largest offshore law firm , panama ’s mossack fonseca – is likely to continue for some time . files ’ release revealed the extremes , and , sometimes , expensive , lengths that individuals will walk to hide their assets and avoid taxation .
some will say that a fatal mistake was enabled by greece ’s adoption of the euro . its fiscal policies were already out of control when it joined the monetary union in 2001 , and its trade unions agitating to push wages up to european levels , despite lagging productivity . the longer-term consequences will not be rosier , but they will be problem for the next day . that the country was supposed to have been unprepared to make progress . but this answer is all too straightforward , given that such signs of dysfunction are not confined to greece .
unfortunately for all of us , the explanation bears repeating these days . prime minister david cameron and chancellor george osborne blame the euro crisis ; in reality , they are blamed for their own economic illiteracy . that policy was destined to produce financial crises because it was bound to leave governments and banks with depleted assets and bigger debts . depressions , recessions , contractions , call them what you will get , because private-sector spends less than it did in the past . despite austerity , this year ’s forecast of the uk ’s structural deficits has climbed from 6.5 % to 8 % , requiring an extra £ 22 billion ( $ 34.6 billion ) in cuts each year .
paris – last month , the concentration of atmospheric carbon dioxide in the atmosphere surpassed 400 parts per million for the first time in roughly three million years . if the current trend that fits the worst-case scenario laid by the united nations ’ intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) , persists , co2 concentrations will rise above 800 ppm towards the end of this century – with devastating consequences . even in the ipcc ’s best-case scenario , co2 concentrations will rise to 550 ppm by the turn of the century – a level that many researchers argue would already be too high to avoid dire consequences . indeed , the predicted global mean temperature rise to 2.4-6.4 ° c , owing to such high ambient co2 concentrations , is expected to trigger the worst outcomes foreseen in the ipcc scenarios , including a loss of an estimated 40 % of species , more frequent extreme weather events , and widespread water scarcities . to prevent this risk and uncertainty in future generations , global carbon emissions , which stand at 8.5 gigatons annually , will have to be halved by 2050 .
america has turned a corner in rebuilding its fisheries and ensuring that they are sustainable . good science is the cornerstone of both us policies . the european commission has just presented a proposal to reform the our common fisheries policy , intended to help rebuild europe ’s fisheries . but this is not enough to put our respective houses in order . because fish and other ocean wildlife stay within national boundaries , it is vital for international cooperation to preserve the world ’s oceans ’ long-term health and the sustainability of fisheries and fisheries jobs .
today , ’s transformational health-care advances owe much to new genomics information , the availability of big data to influence decision-making in the real world , to more focused and individualized therapies , and to smarter , more interconnected delivery systems . next , further breakthroughs enabled by the convergence of science and technology can be expected , particularly as unconventional players enter the health-care sector . yet they are just the beginning , and even just the beginning . technologies that engage patients in health-care delivery and enable more seamless adherence to medications regimes have the potential to improve management of disease management , reduce hospitalization , and lower costs . in this process , partnerships between health-care and technology firms will become even more important .
even in a tightly managed economy like china , massive capital inflows have the potential to find their way around controls over the past decade . capital controls have real costs , even when they fail to tweak inflows . moreover , establishing controls on one type of inflow simply results from its being disguised in other forms . they create some layer of competition protection from competition for those who are better linked , politically , or economically , or have sheer heft to extract around the limit . when incentives for money in order to flow across borders are strong , they find a way , abetted by the proliferation of firms with multi-currency operations and an expansion of international trade that serves as a yardstick for masking capital flows and evading controls .
in october , the international monetary fund updated its world outlook to forecast that only a handful of small countries will suffer a combined recession next year . such shifts can emerge only slowly , but they can fundamentally alter the calculus of pricing in risk and potential returns . political crises , however sensational they may be , are unlikely to change investors ’ economic calculus . today ’s markets are easily explained in terms of fundamental factors : earnings are rising , inflation has been held at bay , and the global economy seems to experience a wide , synchronized expansion . and , while the major central banks do plan or have begun to tighten monetary policy , interest rates will remain low for now .
more than once , he echoed krugman ’s assertion that osborne was motivated by the erroneous conviction that unless he cut the deficit , he may forfeit investor confidence ( the “ confidence fairy ” ) . instead , the tories won an outright majority , confounding pollsters and keynesians alike . skidelsky approvingly quoted krugman ’s claim that britain was “ doing worse this time than it did during the great depression . ” one week before the uk voted down this month , skidelsky notes that voters , “ still wobbly from osborne ’s medicine , ” ” ” ” ” might “ forfeit that they were supposed to stay in bed . what might perhaps have gone wrong on , or , rather , right ?
to my right sat dagan , who had just completed eight years as head of mossad ; to my left sat dore gold , a former academic and former israeli ambassador . both men held very different views about how best to guarantee israel ’s own security was worth recapitulating their respective arguments . gold argued that returned to pre-1967 armistice lines would leave israel without “ defensible borders . ” dagan countered that the military ’s ’s role would be to safeguard israel ’s borders , no matter where those borders would be drawn . he insisted that israel could guard against the east ’s threats only if it maintained a military presence in the west bank and controlled the jordan river that runs along the border separating jordan from israel and the west bank .
if rip van winkle economist were to awaken today after a period of decades-long sleep and see only those numbers , he or she would assume that one-fifth of americans were unemployed and standing in lines outside of soup kitchens . but such talk is not ideological , either . instead , america ’s jobless rate is at its lowest level since , neil armstrong , took his famous first step onto the moon ’s surface 50 years ago . the notion that an american wins in a global slump might sound like a sardonic musing of some unreformed marxist in a dingy faculty corner . rather , global interest rates scraping a floor , because gdp growth outside america is being so sluggish .
since 1990-2002 , new zealand ’s private forest plantations grew more than 1.4 million hectares , on average over ten years . though it has not been planted for climate purposes , these trees soak up carbon dioxide . but , by the end of the 1990 ’s , cultivating forests also reduced new zealand ’s emissions . new zealand successfully negotiated to include this specific emissions offset in its total figures , neatly balancing the actual increase . for safety ’s sake , the country has also bought lots of foreign offsets , including greatly putin from russia and ukraine .
berlin – europe has finally seemed to have moved past its destructive economic crisis , but it remains unsettled . there is much evidence suggesting that a hard landing awaits by the united kingdom . for each cause of optimism has always appeared to be a new cause for concern . so they have opted out of a cliff in the name of “ sovereignty ” . in june 2016 , a slim majority of british voters opted for nineteenth-century nostalgia over whatever promise the twenty-first-century past may hold .
new york – the basic outlines of barack obama ’s foreign-policy approach became clear in 2009 . his administration believes that the united states should talk with other governments , even as they disagrees profoundly with their character . and he has shifted the focus of american foreign policy from what countries do within their borders to how they act beyond them . all of this differentiates obama from his immediate predecessor , george w. bush , whose administration branded selected countries as evil and mostly refused to deal with them ; often rejected cooperation with other governments , lest the american find itself constrained ; and sought to transform other countries rather than affect their actions . he prefers to be acting with other countries to go it alone .
in its current state , cap-and-trade regimes to cut emissions are far from being fair and effective ; major improvements would include the establishing a central climate bank to register and supervise the transfer of emissions credits . this bank would also ensure that emission trading did not run counter to the goal of remaining within the country ’s entire global budget , for example through the complete sale of individual developing countries ’ unused emission credits at the start of the treaty period . for the moment , all of this is still utopian . but , if the 2 ° c target is taken seriously , the twenty-first century will see countries not that are so far down the path of carbonization ( like large parts of africa ) , or that leave it in time ( for example , india and pakistan ) to become wealthy by permitting societies that must de-carbonize rapidly . up to now , the wealth of nations was based on the pulls of coal , gas , and petroleum products .
former us secretary of state hillary clinton blamed her loss to donald trump in the 2016 us presidential election , and the brexit vote that preceded it , on a public backlash against immigration , and she recently suggested that europeans should admit fewer refugees to stem the rise of populism . gunter nooke , germany ’s commissioner for africa , had an even more unpalatable proposition : african countries should cede land to the european union as special economic zones , in what would amount to the supposedly “ voluntary colonialism . ” such solutions are not just unethical ; they would not end the crisis . humanitarian aid alone will not work , either , except in a stopgap measure . in many countries , politicians and media portraying refugees as threats to security , cultural cohesion , and public resources .
since 1988 , iran has had a government-funded , regulated system for purchasing kidneys . a charitable association of patients arranges the transaction , for a set price , and nobody except the seller profits of it . a 2006 bbc tv program found many potential donors turning away because they failed to meet strict age criteria and still others mandated visiting the psychologist . a more systematic study of the iranian system still applies . according to a study published in 2006 of iranian kidney specialists , the scheme eliminated the waiting list for kidneys in that country without yielding to a level of ethical problem .
moreover , american officials worried that the epu would duplicate and undermine the functions of the newly created international monetary fund . to this end , they have authorized the epu ’s ’s ’s use of $ 350 million of the marshall plan funds . at the moment , however , the two narratives are diverging . with the advent of the cold war , us president harry s. truman ’s administration and the american congress recognized the urgency of european reconstruction . the concern then was discrimination : european countries , it was feared , would find it easier to import from one another but lacking dollars , much less to refuse to import from america .
washington , dc – the brexit referendum in the united kingdom and the presidential race in the united states have demonstrated , among other things , that the public ’s distrust of global integration is on the wane . that distrust could derail the new trade deals currently in the works , impeding the ability of future ones to begin . the dangers implied by such a scenario should not be underestimated , either . as costa rica ’s former commerce minister , i know how difficult it is for countries – developed and developed alike – to craft trade policies that deliver benefits to all of their people . isolationism and protectionism , if taken too far , would break the trade-based economic engine that has delivered peace and prosperity worldwide in recent decades .
the uribe-lula-calderón axis appears set to hold it there . chávez is the losers not only because he has provided farc moral support ( he once described them as “ belligerently , ” not terrorists , and publicly labeled uribe american stooge ) , but also because it is believed to provide farc covert military support . that backing has appeared as part of chávez ’s “ bolivarian ” socialist revolution , which has used venezuela ’s petrodollars to bankrolled left-wing governments in ecuador , bolivia , and cuba under the hope of building up the country ’s regional anti-american alliance . there have been grave grounds over the past three years to believe that latin america is going through one of its periodic bouts of left-wing destabilization , given the rise of bolivian president evo morales , ecuador ’s under president nicolás maduro and their ringleader , chávez . yet the recent worldwide rise of commodity prices has meant the traditional regional political powerhouses of chile , brazil , and mexico have had their own economic booms .
even when the american federal reserve continues to cut interest rates , lenders will not rush to mischarge more bad mortgages . the bush administration hopes , somehow , to forestall a wave of foreclosures that is outpacing the economy ’s troubles for the next president in the same way that the iraq quagmire is being wrought . for america ’s moment , the real question is only whether or not a short period will happen , a sharp downturn or even a bout of renewal but shallower , slowdown . its odds that it will experience a success are slim . with house prices declining , fewer americans will be willing and able to resume their profligacy .
but , with linguistic training and implementation of something like the lisbon strategy to boost growth and employment ( aimed at creating an innovative , innovative , “ learning ” economy , ” underpinned by inclusive social and environmental policies ) , mobility could indeed reinforce mobility . as it stands , labor mobility is imperfect within the eu . but more fluid labor mobility is no panacea , either . given the risk intrinsic to bet on policy convergence , labor mobility – which enables highly valuable human capital , especially well-educated young people – to leave lagging regions for those offering more and better job opportunities – could prove to be the critical adjustment tool . on the economic front , however , centralization carries its own costs .
fixated on europe , they forget that they are living in moscow or irkutk rather than paris or budapest . nowadays , most russian elites feel themselves not just europe , but also , i believe , too europeans . fixated on europe , they forget , live in moscow or irkutk , not paris or budapest . many new russians working like machines 16 hours per day , seven days per week , look to their more relaxed western counterparts with disdain often find themselves in asia ’s tiger economies . “ it ’s not america that you need to work here ” – is a popular joke .
while suu kyi does not control the military , which leads a murderous crackdown , her government has blocked un agencies from delivering vital emergency supplies . other surrounding countries , including india , thailand , and malaysia , also feel the effects of the rohingya ’s plight . this represents a tragic departure for suu kyi , who previously won the international action party ( unhcr ) , and the nobel peace prize laureate for her role in the struggle for democracy in myanmar . the un population fund ( unfpa ) , the refugee agency ( unhcr ) , and the child ’s fund ( unicef ) all have been forced to stop working in affected areas . far from moving to stem this humanitarian crisis , suu kyi ’s government has further exacerbated it .
the challenge will be to reach an agreement that ensures the well-being of the future eu-uk relationship . that will not be easy , and eu negotiators have already set a timeline for only 18 months . next year , european politics will be consumed in the wake of the brexit negotiations . in march , the united kingdom will most likely invoke article 50 of the treaty of lisbon , triggering the formal process of withdrawal from the eu . though eu-turkey relations are currently nowhere near their best , dialogue between the two sides must resume in 2017 , not least because of their joint interests , rooted not just in economic interdependence , but also in the refugee crisis and collective struggle against terrorism .
just days after obama declared last october that malaysia is a model for “ diversity and tolerance , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” malaysian authorities denied non-muslims the “ right to use the word “ allah ” in practice – a decision condemned throughout the muslim world for its negative portrayal of islam . when it comes to america ’s government , international press freedom and corruption expose the country ’s persistent deficits just as much . likewise , according to the pew research center , najib ’s government has had “ extremely high ” limits on religious freedom . in addition , members of najib ’s government have personally endorse hudud , a spate of sanctions inside sharia law that might signal strict limits on muslims ’ right to choose how they practice their faith . international measures of press freedom and corruption expose persistent deficits just as much .
at the same time , there are n’t many human activities , whose impact can reasonably be anticipated for decades , centuries , or even civilizational , in advance . true , the world ’s newest intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) report has stated in uncharacteristically strong terms that sea levels are “ practically certain ” to continue rising in the coming centuries or millennia . but recent revelations about antarctica are different . the fall-out from nuclear waste is one ; humanity ’s contribution to global warming by greenhouse-gas emissions from the burning of fossil fuels and its impact on rising sea levels is further . moreover , the greater the our emissions , the higher the seas , will rise .
addis ababa – africa bears the brunt of lives lost , economies ransacked , and relationships fractured by terrorism . it is the continent where al-qaeda launched its war against the united states in 1998 , by bombing american embassies in nairobi , kenya , and the dar es salaam , tanzania ; where boko haram abducted 276 nigerian schoolgirls in 2014 ; and where 147 students were killed in their sleep at kenya ’s garissa university in 2015 . while these attacks have garner the world ’s attention , most people are not realizing that in just five years alone , 33,000 have died in terrorism-related violence in africa . violent extremism and groups espousing it are threatening to reverse africa ’s development gains not only in the near term , but also for decades to come . african countries are especially vulnerable to violent ideologues , owing to the prevalence of weak institutions and failed territory where extremist groups might germinate .
the first problem is china ’s economy , which is so dynamic on the surface but so rickety underneath . moreover , chi argues that the 2008 crisis shattered china ’s export-led growth model , owing to prolonged demand impairment in advanced countries . by the end of last year , the huge rmb4 trillion ( $ 586 billion ) stimulus in november 2008 had mostly poured into loss-making state-owned enterprises through directed bank lending , sustained china ’s gdp growth in the face of world recession . but the price was increasingly severe misallocation of capital , resulting in the growing portfolios of bad loans , while over-leveraged chinese household savings inflated a real-estate bubble . analyst chi lo lucidly presents an image of a macro success alongside micro failure .
xi , to his credit , has advanced what he describes as the concept of “ a new type of great-power relations , ” ” ” ” one that strives to avoid what others have concluded was the near-inevitability of long-term conflict between a rising power ( china ) and an established superpower ( america ) . but , in the american view , this is vastly different from the organized national strategy of undermining the chinese state and its institutions . on human rights , america argues that there are , indeed , fundamental differences between the two countries ’ political traditions and existing systems . moreover , america insists that it is not inclusive ( as it has done with the soviet union ) ; on the contrary , china ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s economic rise was made easier by access to us markets , just as it has access to world markets through chinese accession to the world trade organization . for these reasons , the bilateral strategy ’s strategy is growing .
for starters , tax competition among jurisdictions is quite different from competition among firms in a given market . and there is little evidence that the corporate-tax burden actually falls on workers , rather than on capital . still , market liberals would argue that corporate taxation “ distorting ” behavior and hamper wealth creation . yet this is simplistic , at best . the nonpartisan american congressional budget office ( cbo ) and the institute for taxation and economic policies , among others , have shown consistently that over 80 % of the impact of corporate taxation falls on shareholders , not on workers .
in holland , there is no private medicine at all . doctors are not gods , but they increasingly play god by refusing to use life-extending techniques for patients and families , who want and are even willing to pay for them . european welfare states , too , are facing a profound dilemma . the only recourse for discontented patients is to leave the country or go to the courts . there can be little doubt that holland spends substantial sums on caring for the elderly .
china ’s strong central government overwhelms opposition from those displaced by new roads , bridges , and dams , as well as for many years ran roughshod over environmental concerns and workers ’ rights . the parallels to the old soviet union are striking . unfortunately , it is far from clear that the chinese model of infrastructure development can export universally . some developing countries in asia are working very differently . in democratic india , for example , it took just eight years to rebuild mumbai ’s airport , because courts were forcing the government to respect squatters ’ rights on its outskirts .
but congressional republicans may insist on paying for cuts in personal income tax by limiting the deductions that individuals now use for lower their tax bills . that change would raise revenues equal to about 1 % of gdp , enough to pay for the very substantial cuts in individual tax rates . likewise , trump is easily falling into the thinking tax cuts as a way to boost aggregate demand . and even when the revenues are to be earned , because they could still be deterred by the need to rely on long-term pricing deals . the tax plan imposed on the name of the republican party by paul ryan , the house of representatives ’ house of representatives , calls for eliminating all deductions other than for charitable donations and the interest of mortgages .
nairobi – african countries are often criticized for failing to meet their environmental challenges . after all , observers often cite the loss of habitat in the face of population growth , land degradation , and industrialization . and then there is all the most frequent allegations in all : that increasing poaching is endangering species such as elephantiasis and rhinos . in kenya , however , an innovative and widespread preservation project is underway . start in the aberdare mountains in central kenya , the “ rhino ark ” , ” ” ” originally conceived to guard the highly threatened black rhino from the ravages of poachers , is supported by very people who might have withstood it : local communities in some of the country ’s most productive farmed region .
the personal-saving rate stood at a mere 3.7 % in august 2012 – up from its 1.5 % low in 2005 , but a half of the 7.5 % average recorded in the final three decades of the twentieth century . moreover , the debt overhang remains massive . moreover , the debt overhang remains massive . the convoluted logic behind this strategy is quite disturbing , to say the least , not only to america ’s , but also to the global economy . nothing is cyclical about the lasting aftershocks of the balance-sheet recession that have been evident for almost five years .
moreover , france ’s desire to be acknowledged to the club has led to favorable reforms in many aspiring member countries , particularly central and eastern european countries , which later joined the european union . europe ’s currency crises of 1992 and 1993 , together with more recent chaotic depredations elsewhere , have shown that a prosperous transition has been far from guaranteed . ecb president mario draghi deserves peaks in balancing germany ’s call for fiscal discipline , and the mediterranean needs accommodation . a second early success has been that , by virtually all international measures of use , europe has instantly become the world ’s second-global reserve currency . more recent institution-building on the ledger ’s “ achievement ” side include the advent of some periphery countries , particularly spain , to reduce their previously uncompetitive unit labor costs .
the european union ’s economy is sliding into a severe , and in all likelihood a long-running recession , largely self-inflicted . hungary , where democratic backsliding seems to take hold , provides a foretaste of what a europe in which the euro crisis and deflation persist . while germany continues to attempt to de-regulate the specter of hyperinflation with strict eurozone austerity measures , the rest of the eurozone ’s crisis-stricken countries face a real threat of deflation , with potentially catastrophic results . if she is unlucky , the crisis will arrive in france at the beginning of the german election year , and all previous calculations might have been moot , given that , despite german frustration with europe , greek voters will punish severely those whom europe was enabling . it is only a matter of time , no longer very much time , before economic destabilization gives way to political instability .
the ctbt is necessary because of the role of nuclear tests in the development and improvement of nuclear weapons . it sets a new standard for nuclear-non-proliferation treaty obligations and verification . even today , thanks to a variety of ingenious facilities , the us can also detect very little nuclear tests in remote locations . so tests are also political symbols that do n’t have a place in a world determined to eliminate these abhorrent weapons of mass destruction . the treaty is also fair – that includes the same rights as the one for all its parties .
we need leaders with enough mastery of detail , such as that of china ’s last premier zhu rongji , who can not tell us not just how they will get us from standing to z , but actually lead us out to b. looking around , leaders like this seem to have been the case with extinct species . their capacity to act is constrained by their own political environment . or , where they exist at all , it appears set to be undermined by dysfunctional political systems . us president barack obama ’s best example is us president barack obama , on whom so many hopes rested , probably too many , for any one leader .
palestine ’s quest for statehood within the borders of june 4 , 1967 , falls squarely in the hands of international law . the subsequent un security council resolutions and international treaties upheld this principle . indeed , a palestinian state based on the 1967 boundary is precisely what us president barack obama has called for . today , palestinians seek statehood on a mere 22 % of the territory that was part of mandatory palestine , so long as israel unilaterally established on areas far larger than those awarded by un general assembly resolution 181 . the un security council resolved in november of that year that “ acquisition of territory by war ” is patently unacceptable .
the politicians ’ answer is depressingly predictable : in the face of a resurgent russia and china , this is no time to abandon us own states and diplomacy to their own fate . indeed , some argue that the inventiveness and internationalism of a world networked interests and shared causes are probably more resilient than one crammed into artificial ways and increasingly deflationary the nation-state box . conversely , we may find ourselves in a world whose eastern half are organized into strong authoritarian state structures , with the west embracing counter-state models of association . in that sense , economic success in china or india may be those states ’ undoing , because middle-class political aspirations render the current arrangements dysfunctional . the question for international governance is how to provide a rules-based framework and order in a world of competing organizational structures .
at its 2013 third plenum , the ccp announced 60 goals for economic and governance reforms . party rhetoric , however , reveals little about how these goals will be achieved . indeed , there are worrying signs that the principal architect of the reform agenda , the noted free-market economist li keqiang , is already sidelined . many hope that they will help the ccp become more effective , bolster market role , and avoid the so-called middle-income trap that has ensnared many emerging-market countries . the anti-corruption campaign reflects the ccp ’s evident determination to strip itself of vested interests .
curtailing the flow of recruits is even more vital here . such flows should be shut down by nato governments and financial institutions . another component of any strategy must be to counter . countries can do more to ensure that individuals leave behind in iraq or syria ; europe-wide watch lists , for example , would help . but nothing would have a bigger impact than turkey decide that it will no longer permit itself to be a conduit for enforcing united nations security council resolution 2178 , which calls for stronger international cooperation against terrorism .
at the same time , we need to understand the mechanics of the russian succession of politics . political technology means surreptitiously sponsoring bogus politicians like bogdanov , establishing fake ngo ’s , and “ patriotic ” youth movements like nashi ( himself ) to obstruct a russian version of ukraine ’s orange revolution , and mobilizing voters against a carefully scripted “ foe . ” in 1996 , the enemy was the communists ; in 1999-2000 , chechens ; in 2003-04 , the “ oligarchs ” ; in exchange for freedom of oligarchs ; and in mobilizing voters against a carefully scripted “ enemy . ” now it is the us itself , the supposedly hostile west , and the threat posed by “ color revolutions ” to russia ’s hard-won stability . medvedev himself may find some or all of this distasteful , yet russia now has an entire industry of political manipulation that will scarcely disappear overnight .
in a broader context , hungary ’s re-integration into western institutional structures is proceeding steadily , if not at a desired pace . the visegrád group , cefta , central europe ’s initiative , produced a thriving free trade system and increased flows of investment across the region . so our task was not simply to reconstitute the state , but society was all too -- its family values , its national traditions , and its cultural heritage . through learning one another ’s languages , through cooperation based on shared values , shared interests in much the same way as historical ties , central europe demonstrated what spectacular achievements could be made . our newly freed societies now need to learn the languages of our constituent parts , just as we learned some new economic and political language .
the aberdare mountain states , encompassing 2,000 square kilometers of indigenous forest and vital water-catchment areas , as well as national park , are vitally important to kenya . in 1988 , conservationists chose to finance and build an electrified ring-fence to protect a region of aberdare national park bordering smallholder farms . a fence was designed to prevent intrusion into human populations and degradation by park ’s own habitat . but it also protected farmers , whose crops were periodically destroyed by marauding elephant and other wildlife . local farmers welcomed a initiative that influenced the decision to expand the fence to surround the aberdare perimeter .
first , social inequality grew unabated in the west over the past quarter-century , owing partly to the disappearance of the soviet union , and with it , the threat of expansionist communism . the specter of revolutions had pushed western elites to use the power of the state to redistribute wealth and nurture the growth of a loyal middle class . this was tolerable to the extent that the overall pie was expanding , but the 2008 global financial crisis brought it to an end . there are two root causes of these protests . however , when communism collapsed in its eurasian heartland , the rich west , believing that they had nothing more to fear , pressed to roll back the welfare state , causing inequality to rise rapidly .
in 1998 , the un estimated the combined total value of the illicit drug trade at $ 400 billion , or about 7 % of global trade . critics say that the figure is only half that – still a remarkable sum . colombia today is far worse off than the chicago under al capone . so , too , are other latin american , the caribbean , and the asian countries . drug-prohibition effectively imposes a tax on the global trade in illicit drugs that regulate governments and collect those willing to violate laws .
tatiana insisted on the construction of bam in 1974 , the politically correct date after which the use of “ clean labor ” was used by “ soft ana . ” but the railroad ’s first section , initiated by stalin to offer an east route that fled farther from the chinese border , was built by coercive labor , including russian inmates and german and japanese inmates of war , herded together in so-called bamlags , now ghost towns . even when the volunteers were used , it was not nearly as enthusiastic , about as official bank accounts asserting . lacking adequate housing and electricity , few re-enlisted , and many deserted , before completing their term . nonetheless , the construction of brezhnev-era bam dna showed what the dying soviet system was still capable of accomplishing .
the problem for m5s is that , owing to its new electoral law , it will have to win roughly 40 % of the total vote to secure a combined parliamentary majority . moreover , whereas proportional representation will establish two-thirds of lower-house seats , one-third will still be decided by first-past-the-post voting within single-member constituencies where m5s is likely to lose out , because it is neither willing nor able to form the electoral alliance needed to secure majorities . in fact , party groupings that will benefit the most from the current electoral system will be the only one that managed to forge an ex ante pact with other parties : the berlusconi-led center right . and with support at around 26-29 % , it remains popular despite its poor performance in running the city council of rome . as it demonstrated with his election victories in 1994 , 2001 , and 2008 , berlusconi ’s greatest strength has always been institution-building coalitions .
per india ’s ’s ’s code of political conduct , the budget changes were deferred until after the general election . the upa ’s critics long argued that unsustainably low , state-dictated travails and freight fees for railway services that could not cover the cost of remaining in order to ensure trains ’ safety and tracks , much less allow enlargement and improvements to correct them , reflected the government ’s inability to make tough decisions . it is true that coalition politics prevented decisive action , with a railroad minister summarizing his own party leader , whom the upa was politically unable to confront after having to try to raise well . yet , in a pre-interim budget , the upa government finally did bit the bullet last , proposing a 14.2 % increase in railway fares and a 6.5 % hike in freight rates . soon after taking office , the modi government announced its intention to implement price hikes , though officials made sure that they were merely following through on the existing mandate .
this marks a breathtaking departure from seven decades of practice in managing the astonishing degree of cultural diversity . coupled with the government ’s plan to create an even more problematic national register of citizens , the authorities would disenfranchise any indian muslim who was unable to prove his or her provenance within india . under a recently approved bill , muslim immigrants can be declared illegal . while non-muslims would , through a approved bill , obtain a free-pass , similarly undocumented muslims would suddenly bear the onus of demonstrating that they are indian . many indians , particularly the poor , lack documentary evidence of when and where they were born ; even birth certificates had become widespread only in recent decades .
the collapse of ltcm in 1998 was completely unexpected . is europe today prepared to handle a similar failure of important financial institutions ? having just emerged from a deep recession , financial disruptions could easily cause europe to slide back into recession , especially given the european economy ’s close links to russia via trade and energy . the financial sanctions on russia are not targeted , temporary , or fully credible . compounding the problem , no one truly understands the precise links among russian and european institutions and markets .
gdp has almost tripled in the last 20 years ; but , with real wages rising at less than half that rate , growth has become decoupled from the fortunes of ordinary citizens . the signs that social distress is spreading are multiplying . more than half of middle-income households spend more each month than they earn . south korea ’s divorce rate has doubled , fertility rates have plunged to the fourth lowest among the advanced economies , and suicide rates are among the highest in the oecd . south korea ’s ’s divorce rate has doubled , fertility rates have plunged to the fourth lowest among advanced economies , and suicide rate is the highest in the oecd .
while the european union lags behind the united states in regarding conventional weapons , its capacity to fight terrorism is probably higher . for historical reasons , europe benefits from a political maturity that enabled it to avoid bush ’s manichean worldview , which merely reinforced , rather than undermined , the enemy of fanaticism . police action must be merciless , even if that means more controls and surveillance . it is precisely to prevent the development of collective security fears that we need to alter the equilibrium between security and freedom . this may mean the elimination of shadow “ tax havens , ” ” ” tapping phone lines , and identifying individuals deemed highly dangerous .
while in the us house of representatives , mulvaney did receive large campaign donations from payday high-loan industry , which makes most of its gains from lending at high interest rates to those without alternative when it was desperate for cash . mulvaney also devoted considerable time over the last two years to weakening safeguards that the consumer financial protection bureau had previously attempted to carry out some of the industry ’s worst abuses . as the government shutdown lengthened , the stock price of paypal payday lenders rose . ross should read the mehrsa baradaran ’s informative book , how the other half of the banks did , reflecting the high cost of loan borrowing to low-income families . or he could just have asked mick mulvaney , an acting white house chief of staff .
seoul – a huge military revolution is taking place all over east asia . the latest signs are chinese president xi jinping ’s purge of general xu caihou , an ex-politburo member and former vice-chair of the central military commission , on corruption charges , and japan ’s “ reinterpretation ” of article 9 of its constitution to allow the country to provide military aid to its allies . despite rising regional tensions , which have inspired these moves , china ’s relations with its neighbors and the united states are not fated to wage a direct confrontation . but the relentless march of new initiatives to fulfill the perceived “ china threat ” will require the region ’s political leaders , including the chinese , to resolve their disputes in new and more creative ways if a result is to avoid them . more broadly , there are three ways to foster international peace : deepening economic interdependence , promoting democracy , and building international institutions .
new haven – the severity of the global financial crisis that we have seen over the past two years has to do with a fundamental source of instability in the banking system , one that we can and must design for our very existence . to do that , we need to advance the state of our financial technology . in a severe financial crisis , we find that the falling market value of many of their assets leaves them short of equity . nor can they lift much more capital during the crisis ; so , to restore capital adequacy , they stop making new loans and call in their non-performing loans , thereby burdening the entire economy – if not the entire global economy – into a tailspin . this problem is rather technical in nature , as it is its solutions .
yet he maintained that islam is an indispensable part of the chechen tradition , and presented himself as a leader who fully grasped this . kadyrov also catered to chechen majority spiritual aspirations . still , enjoying an enormous subsidy from moscow , kadyrov rebuilt grozny , granting it a degree of security . so he encouraged an islamic dress code , building a huge mosque – one of the largest , if not the largest , of europe . in doing so , he rejected wahhabism , an ideological framework for the jihadists .
afghanistan poses special difficulties in the reconstruction , because it is not a society with a strong political center . elementary schools and libraries outside the city of towns need special attention . afghanistan 's educational system needs near-scratch , and , with so many women anxious to return to teaching , a revived education system will also help afghanistan 's democratic politicians gain a powerful workforce lobby . village housing must be provided on a massive scale . roads , airports , and communications schemes must also be revitalized if trade is to recover .
what i have just described is , no mere hypothetical . indeed , capsule depiction of the united states federal reserve and the european central bank . one popular explanation for the two banks ’ various approaches is that they stem from their societies ’ respective historical experience . the great depression of the 1930 ’s , when the fed stood idly as an economy collapsed , is the molding event seared into the consciousness of every american central banker . the banks ’ institutional personalities reflect the role of collective memory in shaping how officials conceptualize the problems they face .
not one of his new york times commentaries in the first half of 2013 , when “ austerian ” deficit-reducing policies took effect , predictions of major cuts in unemployment , or that growth-restoring back to brisk rates . by contrast , “ “ catastrophic turn toward austerity has destroyed millions of jobs and shattered many lives , ” he argued , with the american congress exposing americans to “ the imminent threat of severe economic harm from short-term spending cuts . ” as a result , “ full recovery still looks quite long away , ” he warned . i am upping all of this because krugman had taken a victory lap in his end-of-2014 columnists on “ the obama recovery . ” “ and i ’m starting to fear , therefore , that it may never have happened before .
yet , while the market for new cars has slowed dramatically , this could be a good time to initiate a trading replacement of gasoline engines with electric ones . the group ’s initiative , headed by rex nen , is named ecars – now ! – now ! a small operation in finland , it is much less a company than a role model for companies that the team hopes will spring on a global scale . even though many are in trouble , it is probably not the best time to initiate a new car company , let alone one . borrowing from open-software movements , trumpian colleagues want to make the idea and essential designs free , encouraging lots of companies everywhere to implement it locally .
compare these failures with these failures , vladimir putin ’s achievements in chechnya seem like the height of his success . yet , my sense is that there is more wishful thinking than hardheaded reasoning among those calling for the “ color revolutions . ” consider , for example , that nobody has ever developed a precise way to measure whether and to what degree a government might be effective . if a criterion of effectiveness is the ability to achieve all society ’s goals , we are likely never to find something of it . the united states , with an administration that can scarcely be described as weak , bungled the wars in iraq , and the aftermath of hurricane katrina .
unfortunately , many african governments lack the resources to fund programs that could build on these gains . simply put , a new , more collaborative approach to african science is urgently needed . in 2003 , the african union and the new african development association ( sadc ) began implementing continent-wide strategies designed to advance and apply science and technology for socioeconomic transformations in the continent and its integration into the global economy . these and other financing streams helped african researchers to develop drought-resistant crops , produce vaccine coverage for infectious diseases like ebola , and expand opportunities for science and technology education . africa ’s leaders have before pooled their science resources .
london – five years after the collapse of the american investment bank lehman brothers , the world has yet to address the critical cause of the subsequent financial crisis – the excess of debt . indeed , most economists , central bankers , and regulators not only failed to foresee the crisis , but also believed that financial stability had been assured so long as inflation was low and stable . and , once the immediate crisis had abated , the us had failed to foresee just as painful its consequences would have been . official forecasts back in the spring of 2009 predicted neither a slow recovery nor that the initial crisis , which basically spread to the united states and the united kingdom , would soon fuel a knock-on eurozone crisis . and that is why economic recovery has been progressing far more slowly than almost anyone expected ( it has n’t already come at all ) .
a third agreement in phase two will center around a uk-eu roadmap after 2021 . for britons in the “ remain ” camp , such a transition will enable the uk either to remain part of the eu in every name . the big difference is that the uk will lose the voice at the table . this will not be a free-trade agreement , but rather a political declaration about where the two parties hope to end it . and , for some in the “ leave ” camp , it is a way to exit without falling off a cliff edge .
the islamic world is riven by disputes between arab and non-arab , sunni , and shia militancy , as well as salafi extremists and theological moderates . the islamic world is riven by disputes between arab and non-arab , sunni and shia militancy , as well as salafi extremists and theological moderates . muslims find it hard to understand how we can believe that our societies are somehow civilized when pornography and drunkenness appear openly on display . fourth , europeans find it hard to stomach traditional islamic attitudes toward , say , gender or gay moderates . al qaeda ’s agenda is as much about establishing a new islamic caliphate as it is about riding jihad against the west .
the answer may lie in the relationship between europe and russia . indeed , his 2010 election marked the end of ukraine ’s pro-european orange revolution , which sapped his attempt to steal the presidential election in 2004 and keep ukraine on the russian camp . so why was the eu printing presses for an association agreement without offering ukraine anything comparable to what russia had offered ? yanukovych has always been the kremlin ’s ally . with the soviet union ’s collapse , russia not only lost its status as a world power ; within europe it has been forced to withdraw toward the frontier that it has extended to the west since peter the great ultimately to the elites and the thuringia .
what , then , is needed for high performance ? less obviously , a country does not want a misguided or pointless reversal ; it wants investments that look to the financial sector as productive as it is . in fact , the late 1990 ’s produced evidence that low dynamism was linked to weak economic performance , particularly low prosperity . for employees to develop , they would have to be imbedded in stimulating workplaces , with new problems to fix , the harder tasks to be mastered , added abilities to strive for . basically , it is productive change that i call economic dynamism .
first , because majority technology-based monopoly power does not violate existing antitrust laws , regulating it will require new measures to weaken monopolies . likewise , new concepts of public interest are needed to regulate new channels of public information like social networks . second , the standard view of business income and wealth taxation will have to be modified to account for it within firms ’ monopoly power . and , third , laws intended to protect private information should be reevaluated in order to ensure that they are unable to profit from exploiting and manipulating it . above all , the public must develop a deeper understanding of the economic effects of it , especially how technologies that have improved the lives of so many are enriching the livelihoods of so few .
geneva – with france launching its third “ humanitarian ” military operations in as many years , this time at the central african republic – a kind of interventionism that seemed discredited in the wake of the american invasion of iraq – appears to have returned as an accepted norm in international affairs . indeed , decades of relentless interventions have shifted the terms of debate , with recent operations justified by their achievability , rather than merit . as france ’s recent actions demonstrate , intervention nowadays demands little more than a unilateral decree of humanitarian or counter-terrorism objectives , an atmosphere of urgency , and the ambiguous link of ongoing united nations deliberations . a military operation might also be mentioned in the un security council , but only after the fact , when the council ’s decision to do so may no longer have any significant effect on events on the ground . to understand how this shift occurred is to see why , more often than not , such intervention failed to attain its aims .
he argues that economists have become blind to catastrophic macro failures , because they mistook the beauty , or the elegance of the theoretical model for truth . both coase and krugman bemoan neglect of their profession ’s outsize patrimony – a tradition dating at least to adam smith – that appreciated the grand and unifying theories of political economy and moral philosophy . the simplicity and elegance of micro and macro models makes them useful in explaining the price mechanism and the balance or imbalance of crucial aggregate economic variables . but the two models are incapable of describing , or envisioning , the actual behavior of key market participants . the contemporary obsession with an reductionist , mechanical model seems to have propelled the profession from theory to ideology , placing it out of touch with the real economy .
the question of how to regulate access to a genetic sequence data is now cropping up in international discussions , including at the world health organization and the organization for food and agriculture . perhaps the most prominent forum for such discussions is the conference of parties to the convention on biological diversity , the principal treaty that regulates access to biodiversity . the next meeting ( cop 13 ) will take place in cancún , mexico , in early december . participants at policeman ’s 13 must target the need to protect resource providers ’ rights . after all , such no-strings-attached databases do not simply facilitate sharing ; they enable stealing .
if america can grow as fast as it is now , that is very good news for other , less-developed economies , particularly because one powerful consequence of ongoing technological revolutions in computers and communications is to make a much easier voice in the global division of labor now centered in the us . demand growth at a pace that in any preceding decades would have been perceived as highly satisfactory is suddenly , with bush being blamed ( with some fairness ) for the slack in the labor market that resulted . but for everyone except bush – and those left unemployed by the lag of demand – this poses an extraordinary opportunity . as the world ’s leading-edge economy , america faces the toughest work in ensuring growth , for it needs to generate – not just copy and adaptation – new technologies , better forms of capital , and more productive business organizations . the remarkable boosts to productivity that were within america ’s grasp will ultimately lead to accelerating growth of real gains and real wages , if only us policymakers resist the temptation of politically expedient but economically harmful , measures to “ protect ” output and employment .
at a time of unprecedented global challenges – including climate change and the high level of inequality – this must include using the platform leadership ’s unprecedented power to catalyze global-scale solutions . rather than focusing on meeting rising demand for meat by scaling up factory-farming operations , as companies did in the past , this time round , and the similar companies like impossible foods are working to help reduce overall meat consumption , a key driver of climate change . to avoid another public backlash , they must compel such platforms to serve us , not just as consumers , but also as entrepreneurs , workers , and citizens . this undercuts the recent transition , in the corporate stakeholdership , focused not only on scaling up more wisely , but also on becoming wiser about what to scale . earlier this year , the artificial-meat producer beyond meat celebrated a rapid-stock-market debut .
ontario – this december , trade ministers from around the world will converge on buenos aires to the world trade organization ’s eleventh ministerial conference . the wto ’s ministerial gatherings are never easy , but they can not be so . certain kinds of deals are typically delivered , but only at the last moment , and their language is frequently ambiguous . with the united states , which has historically led the world toward trade liberalization , now actively reining in trade tensions , the meeting is set to be in sharp contrast to any other . this time , the outcome might be even more disappointing , with delegates unable to reach even a token agreement that they can tout with an aggressive marketing campaign .
similar norms exist in the czech republic , hungary , latvia and lithuania . by obscuring the role that local populations played in both nazi and communist crimes , such laws help advance nationalist narratives that can prove extremely handy for politicians to seek to win popular support . poland introduced such a law in 1998 . there are more extreme cases pending than that of poland . the pis accrued substantial electoral support for one , owing partly to its exploitation of past tragedies for political ends .
instead , reform proposals have opted for a mix of higher capital requirements for leading banks , and prefinanced deposit insurance through a special levy on banks . this would enable capital buffers to be created in good years , which could then be attracted down in bad years . at the same time , there seems little appetite for proposals to vary capital-adequacy requirements counter-cyclically . admittedly , there are some difficulties with all proposals to limit the scope of “ risky ” banking , especially when it comes to free capital mobility in the global economy . as is often pointed out , unless banking regulation is identical across frontiers , there will be enough scope for “ regulatory arbitrage . ”
new york – america ’s patient protection and affordable care act ( aca ) , us president barack obama ’s signature 2010 health-care reform , has succeeded in expanding insurance coverage ( obamacare ) to millions of americans who would not otherwise have . and , contrary to critics ’ warnings , it has not pushed up health-care costs ; in fact , there is some hope that the cost curve may finally be bending downward . but whether “ obamacare ” succeeds in curbing excessively high health-care costs is not assured . that will depend on the obama administration ’s other policies , particularly in an area that might seem unrelated : the united states ’ ongoing debates with india over intellectual property ( ip ) . and here , obama seems determined to undermine his own signature reform , owing to the pressure from america ’s powerful pharmaceutical lobby .
economic historians , notably michael a. bernstein in his study of the great depression in the united states , have convincingly shown that an economy in transition requires strong aggregate aggregate demand to pull resources into new industries . likewise , cutting fiscal support ( through government-directed bank lending ) to zombie firms would free up fiscal capacity and enable resources to be redirected toward new industries that facilitate service delivery and urban employment ; but this would make matters worse , at least at first – today ’s ’s ’s ’s demand shortfall . if both the old and new industries of the us economy were in a slump , capital formation sputter , investment in upgrading human capital would decline , and structural adjustment would stall . slashing the state sector abruptly , expecting a transformation via austerity , is not the way forward . robust aggregate demand is always crucial to a successful transformation of the future .
london – how radically will digital currencies transform our exchange methods and the way we think about money ? with innovations in digital-payment barreling ahead , such questions are now commanding the attention of the world economic forum and other international institutions . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us might well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war .
bangalore – us secretary of state john kerry ’s valiant effort to salvage the israeli-palestinian peace process is about to end in failure . if anything , israel has accelerated settlement construction since the latest round of talks began , while escalating its demands , particularly concerning israeli troops ’ stationing of forces into the jordan valley . though achieving a substantive settlement has always been a pipe dream , this latest disappointment will render the united states unable to maintain even the façade of a “ “ peace process , ” which was all but process and no peace process . and that might not be such a bad thing at all . negotiations fail for several reasons , starting with israel ’s continued colonization of lands occupied in 1967 , despite opposition from the international community , including america .
her requests were refused , as was her earlier plea in 2006 to suspend her punishment until her two minor sons reached age 14 , a demand she had been entitled to make under russian law . vasily aleksanyan was the executive vice president of yukos , and , as the lawyer , defended khodorkovsky and his partner , platon lebedev , following their arrest in 2003 . in december 2008 , the moscow city court sanctioned his release on bail from 50 million rubles ( about $ 1,775,000 at that time ) . he was then disbarred , and himself was arrested in april 2006 . by that time , aleksanyan was critically ill with aids , for whom treatment had been withheld .
as a first step , china should propose an agreement , using the same text as the previously 150-page draft , but with revisions to satisfy its three “ red lines . ” that timeline requires that the two sides begin to take symbolic and substantive steps immediate . moreover , they require it to happen by the end of the year in order to prevent any further harm from the large tariff hikes currently scheduled to take effect on december 15 . specifically , china should remove american non-tariff provisions once the agreement is signed , and for unilaterally reimposition tariffs if america concludes that china is not honoring the agreement . and it should add a commitment that china execute the deal in ways that are “ consistent with its constitutional , legislative , and regulatory process . ”
princeton – most of today ’s advanced economies have become what they are by goes the well-worn path of industrialization . the progression of manufacturing industries – by textiles , steel , automobiles , emerged from the ashes of traditional craft and guild systems , transforming agrarian societies into urban ones . peasants became factory workers , a process that underpins not only an unprecedented rise in economic productivity , but also a wholesale revolution in social and political organization . labour ’s move led to mass politics and , ultimately , to political democracy . over time , manufacturing ceded its place to services .
and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on its current course for many years to come . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has any interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
some 57 incidents have occurred since the chernobyl disaster in 1986 . whereas only a few involved deaths , those that collectively killed more people than had died in commercial american airline accidents since 1982 . and , of course , that average does not include the fukushima catastrophe . indeed , when compared to other energy sources , nuclear power ranks higher than in oil , coal , and natural-gas systems in fatalities , second only to hydroelectric dams . another nuclear-power accident index , that one including cost beyond death and property damage , such as hurt or irradiated workers and wrongs that did not pass on the shutdowns or leaks , was documented to 956 incidents from 1942 to 2007 .
at the same time , russia is closer to berlin , or even to paris than to washington or new york . unlike some of her predecessors as chancellor , merkel – who have grown up in east germany – is wary of russia ’s strategic designs . there can no longer be so simple as that , once america is no longer perceived as a reliable protector , and worried by china has turned into a global panic . there can be little doubt that the us will benefit both russia and china , at least in the short run , from america ’s abdication of leadership . no matter how much or not , some people may not be excessively bothered by this .
and that would have been the case with the colombian accord , which addresses a vast array of social and economic issues , including problems affecting indigenous communities , gender equality , gay rights , and the million people displaced over a half-century of fighting . the agreement also included an historic land-reform program to date . for uribe and his opposition allies , the principal objection to the treaty concerns how it addresses the question of transitional justice . the negotiators decided that an unconditional application of justice would be impossible to achieve . but , if a deal is negotiated well , the end result would produce significantly greater benefits than the costs .
america , for example , was mistaken to invade iraq in 2003 , only to join in the struggle against isis and to save yazidis from the massacre . it was right to attack the occupied city of mosul , but it was wrong simply to reduce the city to dust . elsewhere , it is the right to shore up south korean and japanese defenses , but evidently wrong to pose a threat to nuclear war . it was also wrong to call in the overthrow of syrian president bashar al-assad ’s regime , because forces opposed assad lacked the necessary popular backing , and the american people were not ready to help them to win that support . on the contrary , helping the syrian kurds was a good idea , because they were effective fighters with strong support from their own people ; and they most likely would not have survived under the isis caliphate .
the trouble began in the end of the cold war , when the collapse of bankrupt communist ideologies was complacently interpreted as market triumph . as communism was discarded , so was the concept of the state as an agent around which our collective interests and ambitions could be organized . individually became the ultimate agent of change , the individuals conceived as the type of rational actor that populates the models of economists . indeed , economics organized itself on the pedestal and enshrined in institutions such as central bank and competitive authorities that were intentionally followed by conflict and forced to form an independent state from politics . such an individual 's identities originated not from class interests or other sociological attributes , but from market logic that dictates maximization of self-interest , whether as producer , consumer , or voter .
madrid june ’s turkish general election sent a powerful message : turkey ’s democracy remains intact . with their votes , turkey ’s citizens denied the ruling justice and development party ( akp ) the absolute majority that it needs to amend the constitution . with their votes , turkey ’s citizens denied the country ’s ruling justice and development party ( akp ) the absolute majority that it needed to amend the constitution . moreover , by handing over the kurdish democratic party ( hdp ) , which is bringing together the country ’s long-marginalized kurdish minority and other groups – over 10 % of the vote – they allowed the party to enter parliament for the first time , with provincial representation , rather than just in the kurdish district . the rest of the world – and especially the european union – should heed it .
to distribute burdens more equitably , germany tried to have a european quota system instituted to allocate claimants among the eu ’s member countries . but germany ’s eu partners rejected this as mere quixotic moral imperialism . germany will have to deal with the consequences of such a refugee wave over the past two years . if an app succeeds , a refugee has the right to bring along his or her family members all the same way . frequently , arab families send their minors to germany in the not-unreasonable hope that they can obtain the right to other family members to follow later on .
washington , dc – anyone watching the united states presidential race need a sense of understanding that national opinion polls provide no accurate picture of how election might turn out to be . because of america ’s electoral college , it ’s not who wins the most votes nationwide that matters late , but who wins in which state states . each state is awarded a certain number of votes in the electoral college , depending on the size of its population . in nearly every us state , a candidate winning 50.1 % of the popular vote gives 100 % more votes than turnout . the candidate crossing a 50.1 % of the popular vote wins the presidency .
new york – the prospect that the american federal reserve will start exiting zero policy rates later this year has sparked growing fear of renewed volatility in emerging economies ’ currency , bond , and stock markets . indeed , soaring interest rates in the united states and a ensuing likely rise in the dollar ’s value could worry , wreak havoc among emerging-market governments , financial institutions , corporations , and even households . because all have borrowed trillions of dollars over the past few years , they will now face a rise in the true local-currency value of those debts , while rising american rates will push emerging markets ’ domestic interest rates higher , thereby raising debt-service costs further . but , while the prospect of the fed raising interest rates seems likely to produce significant turbulence in emerging countries ’ financial markets , the risks of outright crisis and hardship are becoming increasingly limited . the worry is understandable : when the fed signaled in 2013 that ending its quantitative-easing ( qe ) policy came to its fore , the resulting “ taper tantrum ” sent shock waves through many emerging-market countries ’ financial markets and economies up .
indeed , under chirac , france looks increasingly arrogant , a nation convinced by the righteousness of its views and the universality of its model – the very charges so often levelled against george w. bush ’s america . chirac compounded his errors over iraq within his approach to the new european commission . on the old commission , headed by romano prodi , france powerfully represented , with pascal lamy maintaining the trade portfolio . faced with american unilateralism , he failed to promote a realistic multilateral solution . faced with american unilateralism , he failed to promote a realistic multilateral solution .
and the expanding global population – set to reach over 9.5 billion by 2050 – will rein in water resources still further . first , drastic improvements in water-related services – including delivery and sanitation , irrigation and drainage , energy , and ecological facilities – are needed to improve health outcomes , enabling more people to escape poverty . water-intensive food and energy generation – among others – rely on uninterrupted supplies . governments should take the lead in ensuring careful management and sustainable use of scarce water resources . urgent action is needed to ensure that access to safe , affordable water and sanitation is achieved for all .
whereas iran ’s leaders frequently downplayed the sanctions ’ impact , it was mainly attributable to president mahmoud ahmadinejad in recent years to them as the primary culprit behind iran ’s economic turmoil . first , prohibiting oil exports becomes more agonizing when world oil prices rise . ahmadinejad has benefited from the massive increase in oil prices , which has resulted from unprecedented earnings . but iran faced similar economic hardship before – in the 1980s , with oil exports falling significantly amid the country ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s eight-year war with iran , and global oil prices extremely low in 1986-2000 , all while addressing them relatively well . four factors causing an oil embargo , which makes today ’s oil embargo particularly unbearable .
india and pakistan , in contrast to israel ’s commitment to a strategy of nuclear opacity , both perceive themselves as nuclear-armed states , and want the world to embrace that status moreover , israel has never tested a nuclear weapon , and has unabashedly embraced the nuclear suppliers group ( nsg ) guidelines that attempt to stem proliferation through the control of nuclear exports . israel ’s ’s ’s nuclear deterrence is its ultimate defensive against an existential threat , as is its own nuclear arsenal . israel expects the obama administration not only to appreciate the unique context of its ambiguous nuclear status , but also to recognize that it can not be forthcoming in assuring its neighbor or the rest of the world about its nuclear program unless the middle east ’s political environment changes in a radically positive manner . israel ’s ’s nuclear deterrence is its ultimate safeguard against an existential threat . across-the-board nuclear equality can ultimately only bolster iran ’s nuclear claims .
protectionists in the united states and europe , itching to slap enormous punitive tariffs on chinese goods , have been caught flat-footed . they want to retain bathing in press coverage ; but if they push their china-bashing too far and yield too fast , the protectionists are seen to have given one day , denying the next . the genius of china ’s mini-move ( allowing the yuan to rise 2 % against the dollar ) is that no one can tell when or what will happen next . but no one knows whether china ’s child step is the start of something much bigger , because china ’s authorities hint one day and deny the next . whatever the ultimate economic effects of china ’s apparent modest step toward floating its currency , one must admire its strategically brilliance .
and here , obama , in particular , will soon understand that hollande has no intention of bringing sweeping change . hollande is unlikely to be less amicable with america than he was sarkozy , viewed by many as france ’s most pro-us president . on the contrary , his intent will appear as a reliable , out-of-the-partner partner . one of his close political associates recently declared that should the un security council approve military interventions in syria , france has “ could envision ” ” ” ” participating in that effort . hollande endorsed a military intervention in libya in 2011 , and joined the conviction of syrian president bashar al-assad ’s regime .
deflation -- a steady , ongoing collapse of prices -- has given firms and consumers a powerful incentive to cut spending and hoard cash . it has reduced the ability of firms and banks to service their debt , and perhaps to trigger a big " bankruptcies " that destroys confidence in the financial system providing additional incentives to hoard . hence the keynesian solution : use monetary policy ( lower interest rates ) and fiscal policy ( expanded government spending and reduced taxes ) to keep the economy out of near the precipice of where deflation becomes possible . but if this is an issue solved well beyond 50 years ago , why is it haunting us now ? deflation -- a steady , ongoing ongoing fall in prices -- gave firms and consumers powerful incentives to cut back on spending and hoard cash .
and of the 50 million or so children living outside their own countries or having been internally displaced , more than half of them were forcibly uprooted , in the face of new threats to their lives and well-being . this is not so much rhetoric ; it is reality . millions of children are undernourished and out of school ; millions have witnessed unspeakable brutality ; and millions are victimized by exploitation , abuse , and , worse . the united nations , with its support from countries like sweden , as well as by working through a coordinated humanitarian-response system that includes unicef , is alleviating suffering whenever and wherever it can . but the quantity and complexity of cascading crises are testing that system , as never before , is .
overcoming the formidable challenge that climate change poses to africa will depend on moments of collective focus and clarity . overcoming the formidable challenge that climate change poses to africa will depend on moments of collective focus and clarity . the un secretary-general ’s climate summit next month should be just such a moment , with countries committing to stepping up their emissions-reduction targets under the 2015 paris climate agreement to reach net-zero emissions by mid-century . given their heightened vulnerability , african countries have every incentive to set the bar high , thereby placing pressure on others to ramp up their own donations . to that end , a coalition of african nations , backed by the un economic commission on africa , and a new climate economy , is working to facilitate meaningful , coordinated action that puts the continent on a more inclusive , sustainable growth path .
the generalized instability of social relations , most fundamentally , but not only in jobs , is slowly becoming intolerable to a growing segment of the population in many advanced countries , not only in europe . throughout the post-war world , capitalism might have been reconstructed in the sense that it was buttressed by the three necessary kinds of regulation : social security that served as the principal stabilizer ; at least in advanced countries ; keynesian tools to fight domestic cyclical downturns ; and a universal high-wage policies aimed at stimulating common consumption , without which the genius of capitalism – mass-production – does not work . but the fallibility of the rich , developed countries around the monetarist policies promoted by economists like milton friedman , which began around 1970 broke with whatever that . and there can not be a stable economic order , at least not in democratic countries as long as electorates reject its underpinnings . the rejection of europe ’s constitutional treaty by french and dutch voters was , in all words , more a rejection of unregulated globalization than it was a rejection of europe .
inflation targeting has other effects , too , which seem to be more on central bankers ’ minds . in his influential 1998 book inflation targeting , ben bernanke and his co-authors have advised policymakers to announce a target for inflation , because it “ communicates the central bank ’s ’s intentions ” in practice should give credence to the uncertainty . the announced rate should be substantially affirmative , they wrote , for as long as officials tried to grab it close to zero , any mistake might result from deflation that “ might endanger the financial system , ” and precipitate an economic contraction . that may create a feeling of real risk in the short term . around the same time in an age of internet rumors and fake news , the world today can look a bit unmoored from history .
berkeley – with its ambitious made in made in china 2025 strategy , china has made clear its goal of securing global economic leadership in high-tech industries . this places it under outright competition with the united states – which is currently leading the way in these industries , in what is emerging as an undeclared but intensifying cold war over technologies , with both commercial and military applications . moreover , with its investment in such dual-use technologies , china is looking for more than to compete commercially with the american people ; it is also looking for greater military and geopolitical power . and it has deployed a wide variety of methods , including weak intellectual property ( ip ) protections , technology transfers as a condition of joint ventures with chinese partners ; avoidance of export controls ; and regulatory harassment to acquire such technologies from america and its other trading partners . china ’s intentions and practices have long been the irritant in sino-american relations .
but an america that is relatively less dependent on foreign markets possesses deeper domestic markets , and tends to be more economically resilient than other eu countries would do better than most others in the contracting global economy . already , chinese financial markets have suffered , while those in the us have held back . already , chinese financial markets have suffered , whereas those in the us have held up their own . the berlin wall fell , bringing germany ’s reunification , and yugoslavia disintegration . soon after , slovakia ’s “ velvet divorce ” gave way to the czech republic and slovakia – which , along with other central and eastern european countries ( including hungary and poland ) – then anchored themselves firmly to the west by joining nato and the eu .
ratification would also give us guaranteed access to funding by the european stability mechanism ( esm ) , should we ever need that . the esm is ireland ’s insurance policy as the us working our way out of a bailout program with the “ troika ” ( the european commission , the ecb , and the international monetary fund ) and a return to the markets . at the same time , the treaty would promote stability in the iranian economy and help stabilize europe , our currencies . it would enhance confidence in iran , allowing the us to increase the existing flow of inward foreign direct investment . most important , a fiscal treaty promises to ensure responsible europe-wide budgeting .
after exploring this question with legislators in a number of countries over the last few months , it has become abundantly clear that many do n’t have full grasp of the myriad issues that need to be considered . in europe , legislation to protect personal data is not comprehensive , and much of the rest of the world lacks even a rudimentary safeguards . it is a difficult subject to address , and doing so is impeded by lobbying efforts and incomplete information . in the short run , legislation to protect personal data is not comprehensive , and much of the rest of the world lacks even a rudimentary safeguards . all organizations should invest in ethics officers , or some kind of review process , involving people who can evaluate all of the implications of a great-sounding idea .
the young at shahbag come mostly from urban , educated , and the middle class ; hifazat hand derives its support primarily from the rural poor . bangladeshi government male sympathies are closer to the shahbag protesters than to the hifazat the counter-demonstrators . but , all too often , clichés become established because they are true . traditional versus modern , urban , versus rural , intellectuals versus peasantry : these divisions are the serts of political cliché . but they must navigate a difficult road , because both point of view have significant public support .
even the staunchest defenders of the current monetary system will admit that it does not work equally well for all of them . cryptocurrencies were around for more than a decade , but none was widely adopted to challenge the existing order . with the potential to mobilize more than two billion monthly actively operating users , facebook could change that . actual bombshell , however , was a sudden realization of the threat posed by digital currencies to the existing monetary system – not at some later date , but right now . now that the company has thrown down the gauntlet , governments should take advantage of the opportunity to advance a form of digital currency that serves the public good .
why has the great recession and the disastrous meltdown at the fukushima daiichi event in japan not elicited a similar reaction today ? prior to becoming soviet leader in 1985 , relations between cold war superpowers had a rock bottom . economic constraints and the chernobyl disaster helped spur us to action . reagan and i were nonetheless able to build a reservoir of constructive spirit through continuous outreach and face-to-face interaction . what seems to be lacking today are leaders with an boldness and vision for building the trust needed to reintroduce nuclear disarmament as the centerpiece of a peaceful global order .
throughout europe , this is not only british prime minister tony blair , who is accused of “ presidentialism ” is an object of history . german chancellor gerhard schröder faces the same charge in germany 's current election campaign in germany . german chancellor gerhard schröder faces the same charges in germany 's current german election campaign . it offers a moment to examine why they are so enfeebled . august is the traditional month , when recess for the summer .
first , the new set of external disciplines comes hand-in-hand with a special , neoliberal model of economic development that remains untested , and foreclose the development strategies that have worked in the past and the rest that might work in the future . the narrowing of national autonomy in the process of formulating development strategy is a cost to which developing countries are unlikely to receive an adequate reward . second , it is doubtful that the new policy agenda will make the international financial system much safer . indeed , by focusing attention on internal structural reform in the developing world , the risk is that the current approach will create complacency about short-term capital inflows , increasing rather than then systemic risk . so long as capital flows remain huge relative to the kinds of liquid assets held by national governments , and are easily reversible , the international economy would be hostage to spectacular boom-bust and bust cycles .
many news stories about female ceos and other high-achieving women are enamored with a set of reliable clichés : they lucked out into their new roles ( and therefore do not deserve them ) ; they inherit them from male relatives or slovak ( and hence do not really hold the reins of power ) ; or they will not be there for long . when all else fails to do , coverage concentrates so narrowly on gender , which the wife ’s very leadership is weakened . and all of these clichés have been reproduced in the coverage of barra ’s appointment at gm . for example , cnn covered the story by referring to barra ’s “ knack for climbing the corporate ladder ” – a phrase with some suggestive undertones , and one that would never have applied to men at the top , for whom , arguably , hard work , talent , aspirations , and dedication constitute more than a “ knack ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” . these clichés , for example , not only undermine successful women ’s licenses ; in ceos ’ case , they also lower their value to their companies .
state-owned firms remain favored , books are burned , and the chinese communist party continues to assert its primacy in every domain of chinese life . how long this will hold is anyone ’s guess . in fact , few observers have expected that china would suddenly transform itself into a full-fledged democracy following its accession to the world trade organization in 2001 . but the country ’s repressive turn over the past decade was , until now , disappointing to witness . dynasty come and plays , but in 2021 the cpc will mark the centenary of its founding .
more recently , elections in europe ’s post-communist countries have brought groups into power whose democratic credentials are dubious , to say the least . this is not to compare hamas with any such political forces . first , elections rarely , on the other hand , address fundamental problems . nevertheless , one must wonder about a victorious movement with quite few elected members of israeli prisons and others who are not likely to obtain permission to enter a country where they were elected to ensure that the new parliament would not function properly . all of this tells us three things about democracy , which might be the first to say .
the social consciousness of homo putinicus , meticulously burnished by tv propagandists , is such that pride in lugovoi ’s achievement and indignation at the infamous campaign set out against him by those who hate russia can jangle within the breast of ordinary russians through the slightest dissonance . the social awareness of homo putinicus , meticulously burnished by tv propagandists , is such that pride in lugovoi ’s achievement and indignation at the infamous campaign unleashed against him by those who hate russia can be gamed into the breast of ordinary russians through the slightest dissonance . of course , this should not be taken to mean that patriots gushing over lugovoi ’s achievement concede the fairness of the british allegations . but only one such “ patriot act ” was taken for granted to deserve the honors to make that act . we are evidently faced with the mystery of russian thought that has proved so unrealizable to others , so unruly to every analytical scalpel and about which our slavophiles and eurasians wrote at length .
and , because opportunity inequality reduces generational social mobility from one generation to the next , it creates persistent inequality traps . moreover , given that inequality largely begins in childhood , governments need to invest far more in high-quality universal health care , and early-childhood education . · removing barriers to opportunity , governments must address the root causes of inequality by identifying and ruling out discriminatory laws , not least those that actually criminalize at the bottom . · doing so investment will require additional domestic resources , which will require an increase in domestic funding . · removing barriers to opportunity , governments must address the root causes of inequality by identifying and eliminating discriminatory laws , not least those that actually are criminalize at the bottom .
some , it should now be pointed out , are still being made . italy has grasped crucially important reforms in areas such as pensions . greece has slashed its spending by larger amounts , relative to gdp , than any country in europe since the end of world war ii . other reforms , particularly political reforms , will be hotly challenged . spain ’s labor costs have declined substantially since the crisis began .
two bubbles – property and credit , against which american families had borrowed freely , have long since burst . instead , they have slashed back on balance-sheet repair , american consumers have not taken the bait of their monetary and fiscal authorities . gains in inflation-adjusted personal-consumption expenditures have averaged a mere 0.8 % over the last five years , the most severe and protracted sluggish growth of consumer demand in the post-world war ii era . but the aftershocks linger : household-debt loads were still less than 113 % of disposable personal income in 2012 ( versus 75 % in the final three decades of the twentieth century ) , and the personal-saving rate averaged just 3.9 % last year ( versus 7.9 % today ) . understandably , gains in inflation-adjusted personal-consumption expenditures have averaged just 0.8 percentage points over the last five years – the most worrisome and protracted deceleration in the growth of consumer demand in the post-world war ii era .
though his motivations , at least partly , may have been a thirst for social justice , perón was in effect in effect bribing the beneficiaries to support his own rise in power and wealth . with his magnificent , outspoken wife , a “ woman of the people ’s ” – at his side , perón was able to persuade voters in 1946 that , as president , he would fundamentally change the country . he was as good as his word , and his word , “ . ” argentina became less reliant on foreign trade , even though the move toward autarky ultimately undermined growth , causing the country to lose its status among the world ’s richest . perón ’s administration nationalized banks and railroads , raised the minimum wage and improved living standards , lowered the national debt ( for a while ) , and revived the economy .
in the end , amid the street riots and political mayhem , argentina abandoned its currency peg in 2002 . the cap will most likely become even more politically controversial once brazil recovers . viewed with argentina ’s ’s experience in mind , brazil ’s spending cap looks problematic , all the more against a backdrop of political turmoil that is set to continue for the foreseeable future . indeed , it is not hard to imagine the next administration whenever it abates , perceiving the cap as an impediment to faster economic growth . the cap ’s defenders will sound inconclusive , because the economic case for it is weak in the absence of extreme credibility problems .
while experts spent the last two years propounding this thesis the market has quietly reinstated a older , more common-sense rule : prosperity is good for profits , and therefore good for stock . part of that can be explained by misunderstandings of the relationship between stock market prices and economic growth . a strange conventional wisdom , developed in the fossil-fuel 1970s and 1980s : that strong economic growth and falling unemployment were bad at sharing prices . prosperity , it was feel , would incite inflation , provoke high interest rates , triggering a stock-market rout . here is one message from markets worth pondering even for non-investors : political confidence may be at a low ebm in europe ; business and consumers may be shell-shocked by the last recession and gloomy about the future ; but judging by market behavior years ahead more closely resembles the stable and 1960s than the crisis-ridden decades between 1973 and 1989 .
elsewhere , the nigerian association of chambers of commerce , industry , mines , and agriculture ( naccima ) used its agenda over a few years to coordinate economic reform . in 1999 , this task assumed critical importance , given the country ’s opening to democracy . a legislative advisory program is another tool that business can use to influence public policy . in 1999 , the task assumed critical importance , owing to a country ’s opening up to democracy . * sound economic analysis and background papers readily available for technocrats and others to study ;
the imf predicted that thailand and others would achieve positive gdp growth in 1998 ( three percentage points in thailand 's case ) . now the imf recognizes that thailand would shrink by about three percentage points . its medicine has done little to rescue the economy , and so has its banking industry . the currencies crumbled , and the banking sector 's banking sectors collapsed . the imf mobilized massive amounts of money ( $ 118 billion in each ) to indonesia , korea , and thailand to pay back foreign creditors trying to withdraw their funds .
the obama administration knows the iron law of american policies – “ it ’s the economy , stupid ” as anyone else . so , expect a lot of us foreign-policy news in the months ahead . election-year tactics aside , american voters are right on both counts . obama has done far better on foreign policy than in domestic policy , which is all the more surprising given the soft hand that he has been handled : an america that has lost its moral authority , its military invincibility , and its credibility as an economic model . nevertheless , highlighting obama ’s ability to get things done abroad is more than an attempt at diversion ; he also sends the message that the domestic-policy impasse is not his fault .
but it is only one facet of europe ’s urgent need to import people from africa and asia . europeans will also see the dismantling of their welfare state and social-security systems ; a cherished “ european ” model of pensions , health , and unemployment benefits risk being replaced with the despised and widely feared “ american model ” ” ” ” . this is not , needless to say , because europeans crave america ’s rigors of less cosseted social conditions , but because it ’s ’s the only way that europeans can stay afloat financially . the root cause of all of these developments is european population shrinkage . the “ demographic time bomb ” that economic analysts have discussed for a decade or more is currently exploding .
and they watch glee on how europe , japan , and the us , rather than acting together , depicts the weakness of disunity . they feel confirmed in their conviction that for most western governments , outrage over iran ’s terrorist activities counts less than the lure of enterprise . should a rogue state be permitted to get away with its own provocations ? the trouble is that , in most cases , it will be . instruments of coercion that states dispose of short of military intervention are imperfect , and require a degree of international solidarity that is generated only in exceptional circumstances .
london – a flawed understanding of what drives economic growth has emerged as the defining threat of recovery in europe . european policymakers are obsessed with national “ competitiveness , ” ” and genuinely seem to think that prosperity is synonymous with trade surpluses . this largely explains why germany routinely cited as an example of a strong , “ competitive ” economy . but rapid economic growth , even in traditionally export-led economies , is fueled by productivity growth , not by the capacity to capture an increasing share of global markets . while imports must , of course , fund exports , the focus on trade competitiveness is attracting attention from europe ’s underlying problem , very weak underlying productivity growth .
china currently controls the entire value chain of electric cars , including provision of cobalt , an essential raw material in battery production . as a result , china generates 69 % of the world ’s electric-car battery cells , the united states of 15 % ( at tesla , a gigafactory ” in nevada ) , and europe just 4 % . far more important , battery cells to the global value of electric cars , the stronger the agglomeration effect will be . and , more important , battery cells account for the total value of electric cars , the stronger the agglomeration effect will be . nonetheless , europe could still develop battery production through recycling old electronics , developing new cobalt-saving processes , and discovering alternative mineral deposits .
but breakthrough technology companies like apple , facebook , and twitter have also depended on people with access to well-funded education systems . policymakers in europe ( and elsewhere ) need to tailor their thinking – in particular , their fiscal thinking – to place people first . after all , governments need to reduce red tape , so that entrepreneurs can take on more risk . and while there is a rising “ tech ” for good ” ” sector in europe , it will succeed only if it is backed by up-to-date infrastructure , which tends to require public outlays . governments that make it their central goal of maximize human well-being end up not only stimulating higher economic growth , but also nurturing healthier politics instead .
the initiative will have to come out on top if the case is to be made within every country for more open markets and to help those facing adjustments . in developing countries , pro-trade votes could help to turn the debate on opportunities for global integration , rather than emphasize some exceptions . for example , it is untenable in rich countries that farm interests accounting for less than 4 % of employment effectively block an agreement to open new service markets and manufactures that account for more than 90 % of employment . all countries will need to give to them ; no country can be expected to shoulder the entire burden alone . pro-trade forces can , on the whole , speak out as part of the political process .
intersectarian dialogue in iraq and regional compromise with turkey and the gulf states do not necessarily translate into a loss of iranian influence . indeed , iran ’s prompt aid to iraq ’s shia-led government has been partly intended to preempt competition from regional adversaries . iran has already countenanced the removal of maliki in favor of haider al-abadi , and if a broader policy reconsideration is needed to quell the current threat , so be it . iran ’s hawks might believe that their country is invincible , but the fears are mounting that regional overreach might trigger a long list of ominous consequences . but iranian critics of intervention seem convinced that there is a middle way .
the impact of the lessons that are learned in india is even more striking . in october 2013 , residents of odisha state were women for the first time making cyclone phailin appearance . in houston , the authorities were prepared for harvard partly because of lessons learned since hurricane katrina , which devastated new orleans in 2005 . that storm had caused 1,833 fatalities , while at least 88 people were killed during harvard . globally , the impact of the lessons that were known in india is even more striking .
for catalan separatists , that means they now confront what the political scientist hans morgenthau termed the “ a-b-c paradox ” of nationalism . given that the status quo is volatile and independence impossible , many believe that the only solution is more fiscal autonomy for catalonia . but this , too , is unlikely in the near term . if catalonia wants to leave spain , why should n’t barcelona have the right to walk out of catalonia ? and why would n’t today ’s “ oppressed ” catalans have become tomorrow ’s oppressors to prevent that from happening ?
even that futile scenario might be optimistic , because it assumes the talks get off the ground – an impossible feat if israel continues its illegal construction of settlements in occupied palestinian territories . such activities are not only unjust ; they are violations of united nations security council resolution 2334 , adopted nearly unanimously last year ( america , then led by barack obama , abstained ) . that resolution demanded – in case israel instantly and shut down all settlements activities in occupied palestinian territories , including east jerusalem – activity that amounts to almost flagrant violations under international law . trump ’s son-in-law and adviser , jared kushner , tasked with settling the conflict , and trump administration ’s chief negotiator on the issue , jewles greenblatt , seems to grasp this . any deal between the israelis and palestinians will require profound concessions by both parties – the concessions that leaders on both sides will need to persuade their respective publics to accept .
in doing so , however , china is not openly challenging the foundations of the liberal order . the chinese authorities are well aware of how much its country has benefited from becoming deeply integrated into the global economy . and they are not prepared to risk the foundations of their domestic legitimacy : economic growth . the belt and road initiative ( bri , formerly named one belt , one road ) , that xi christened the “ project of the century , ” is the true reflection of china ’s strategic choice to cement commercial links with the rest of eurasia and africa , assuming the opportunity to accumulate “ soft power . ” a remarkable writ large from world leaders attending the bri forum in beijing last month has committed more than 30 countries and international organizations to promote “ “ “ peace , justice , social cohesion , social cohesion , inclusiveness , democracy , good governance , the rule of law , human rights , gender equality , ” and women ’s grant .
the question , then , is whether the new leaders , as early as next month , succeed in a new effort to enact the vital institutional reforms demanded by an enlarged union . the question , then , is whether the new leaders , much as early as next month , succeed in a new effort to enact the vital institutional reforms demanded by an enlarged union . part of the stalled documentary , the eu ’s charter of fundamental rights , can be deferred . to be sure , this would be painful because , as eu bureaucracies gain more authority , the eu ’s democratic deficit cuts without any clearly defined fundamental human rights . part of the stalled document , the eu ’s charter of fundamental rights , can be deferred .
this is as true of the peoples of europe as well . but there is an even more profound reason for europe : the transatlantic alliance is more necessary today than ever , and it is far stronger with britain in europe and europe , an equal partner with america . in the long run , that is essentially an alliance of values : liberty , democracy and the rule of law . as the world changes , opening up across the borders of nation and a culture that values will govern the twenty-first century ? forget about short-term electoral politics , there , or here .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . after all , iran and the united states have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . similarly , several months ago , two police vice president , arms minister , and former head of state petroleum corporation , all of whom were brought to court on charges of selling state property to private companies at a loss . taken together , these cases indicate high levels of state capture – a form of corruption , rife in former soviet-bloc countries , in which powerful private actors use insiders to reassert control over public institutions and assets .
a minority government , whatever its composition , would not necessarily be a bad thing . a minority coalition that included the greens would force the csu to compromise on migration issues and climate policy , which would be unnecessary otherwise , given the spd ’s inability , die trek ( the left ) , and the greens to block legislation . for its part , the fdp would like to participate in such a government , for precisely that reason . it would then be able to contain merkel her red-green affinity . and merkel herself would attempt to avoid a minority coalition with the fdp to avoid becoming dependent on it .
chinese corporations ’ ’ high level of indebtedness might have been a source of financial instability , even though several officials have stressed little concern for these countries . it is revealing that , to achieve the five-year plan ’s goal of halving poverty by 2020 , which requires reducing the number of poor people by $ 55 million , the line of poverty is defined as just $ 354 per year , or less than one dollar per day . moreover , china is still a low-income country with per capita gdp of just $ 14,000 , about one fourth of which in the united states . though beijing and shanghai are comparatively prosperous , there remains much poverty elsewhere . one government minister at the cdf noted that the one million chinese tourists who went abroad last year used their credit cards to buy some $ 1 billion worth of us goods that they can not obtain at home ( while noting the irony that some european and american branded goods actually are manufactured in china ) .
but the record of democratic transitions since 1974 suggests that regime change in china is unlikely to be calamitous . but those who believe that the ccp can defy both the internment dynamics of autocracy and the historical record of failed one-party regimes might benefit too much from reading leon trotsky , who knew something about revolutions . at the same time , another explanation fears contemplating the unknown . dictatorships are considered indestructible before they fall , trotsky reminds us , but their demise is viewed as inevitable once they are overthrown . ccp rule may not last , but the alternative – national failure and civic chaos – could be far worse than the status quo .
neusoft ’s facilities looks as if neusoft could link standard intel chips and its own imaging software to a broad range of digital sensors . neusoft ’s machinery looks like little personal computers with oracle attached . neusoft began as a low-cost competitor to oracle corporation . after moving on to manufacture car audio facilities , liu jiren , neusoft ’s ceo , launched hearing complaints from local hospitals about the high cost of specialized x-ray , mri , ultrasound , and ct-scanning machinery ( such as those manufactured by ge philips , siemens , and toshiba ) . suddenly , a new enterprise was born , or so a new enterprise was born .
princeton – everyone now knows that germany is calling the shots not only in the eurozone , but throughout all of europe . there are also structural reasons for the eu to change that now . within germany , there have been endless debates on german identity – what one historian has called “ the continual quarrel over what one german might actually mean . ” under foreign-policy terms , however , postwar west germany and , the later reunified germany , were in a completely predictable way : never opposed to the west ; always for more europe . now , the “ berlin republic ” is immensely secure in its identity , and seemingly at sea , in its dealings with the world .
startup companies exemplify the potential benefits of risk-taking . tom watson , jr. , who led ibm through a decade of robust growth , is well known for having fostered brilliant blunders . and the oversight that warren kelvin ’s estimate is supposed to have the courage to take on risk when they are thoughtful risks … we need to forgive the mistakes that were made because someone tried to engage aggressively in corporate ’s interest . while only about 49 % of manufacturing startups and 37 % of information startups , respectively , survive on less than four or more per year , those that did manage to produce breakthrough innovations . tom watson , jr. , who led ibm through a decade of robust growth , is well known for having fostered brilliant blunders .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on its current course for many years to come . after all , iran and the united states have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . the greatest threat will come from netanyahu , the us .
russians resent the mounting economic insecurity brought about by the sanctions trump ’s predecessor , barack obama , launched , following russia ’s annexation of crimea in march 2014 ( a move that initially bolstered putin ’s flagging approval ratings ) . now , more than ever , what putin needs is america ’s friendship with that of his own . though he was reelected as president in a landslide in march , his approval ratings have steadily plummeted , to 45 % . depending on putin , he rooted for trump ( but of course failing to interfere in trump ’s name ) , because they share a desire to improve bilateral relations . popular discontent in russia has also inflamed the authorities ’ widely reviled pension reform , which included increasing the retirement age .
to be sure , wall street ( whose interests the american treasury represents ) gains from capital market liberalization : they make money like , as the flow of capital flowed out ; and a restructuring that occurs in the ensuing havoc . in some cases , u.s. firms bought up the banks , kept on them until korea recovered , and then resold , reaping billions in capital gains . in south korea , the imf urged the sale of countries ’ banks to american investors , even as koreans had managed their own economy impressively for four decades , with higher growth , more stability , and without the systemic scandals that marked america ’s financial markets with so frequency . in its rush to have westerners bought into the banks , the imf forgot one detail : ensuring that south korea could recapture at least a fraction of those gains through taxation . whether america ’s investors had more banking expertise in emerging markets may be debatable ; that they had greater expertise in tax avoidance does not .
princeton – on january 1 , roh parfit , one of my generation ’s greatest philosophers , died . just one year earlier , in a poll on a leading philosophy web site , parfit voted the predominantly living anglophone philosopher . parfit was not a household name at all . of all the philosophers that i had known since starting to study the subject more than 50 years ago , parfit was the obvious of living the anglophone philosopher . getting into the philosophical argument with him was like playing chess with a grandmaster : having engaged in every response that i could make for his arguments , considered a few possible replies , and knew the objections of each compels to those objections . parfit was not a household name at all .
on paper , the us hospital seems well staffed and appropriately equipped , but in my rounds , there was , on my rounds and wards , but in my rounds , i found the halls and wards and barren . few of these therapeutic and diagnostic options were available , and there were no funding . but under-equipped hospitals may not be the greatest obstacle to controlling china ’s aids crisis . equally harmful are the government ’s discomfort with its own policy failures and a stigma attached to a disease in which there is frequently been sexually transmitted one . even a crucial test like a cat ’s scan would require transport to another regional hospitals .
yet the level of average incomes in the west bank and gaza will remain far lower under a latter strategy than in a situation in which the israeli labor market is gradually reopened for palestinian labor . this confirms the enormous short-run welfare cost to palestinian society of restricting the palestinian workers ’ access to the israeli labor market . so , what trade policies might spur the exports of goods , rather than labor ? comparing the outcomes in the two israelis suggests that large palestinian exports of labor to israel reduce the palestinian economy ’s capacity to export goods by placing upward pressure on wages , undermining competitiveness . at the same time , these simulations suggested that continued dependence on exports of labor outcomes in the diminished growth potential of the palestinian economy than is capable of a development strategy based on exporting goods .
addis ababa – when zimbabwe ’s president robert mugabe was deposed in november 2017 , after 30 years in power , many had hoped that the economic decline that he oversaw would soon be reversed . but , a year and a half later , the us economy is showing no signs of recovering , owing to the ongoing currency crisis . could a blockchain-based cryptocurrency be the cure for what travails zimbabwe ? and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us might well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
but , in that case , when a son borrows essential elements of his father ’s architectural principles and serve a regime that seeks to use the games for some the same reason that animated hitler is not voluntarily reflected in those sins ? clearly , the chinese were politically tone-deaf in choice for the architect , whose name has conducted such dark historical connotations . the name of speer itself probably did n’t matter to the officials who elect it . totalitarian regimes – the nazis , the soviets in 1980 , and now the chinese – desire to host the olympics as a way to signal the world ’s supremacy to us . china believes that it has found its own model to develop and modernize , and its rulers regard the games in equal measure with the nazis and leonid brezhnev as a way to “ sell ” their model to a global audience .
the way to square this manifest circle is by noting that we love “ our motherland ” not because of misgivings about ethnic or racial supremacy , but because it stands for noble and universal values . macron can proudly call himself the french patriot act , because france gives the monté , égalité , and fraternité . these are examples of what the philosopher jürgen habermas has called constitutional patriotism ( others have dubbed it with civic patriotism ) . in a recent dutch election , liberals might argue that respect the rights of migrants , because it is respect and exuberance are traditional dutch values , of which any dutch patriot can take pride . this philosophical position has practical implications , too .
carrying out such investigations effectively and without delay would restore the icc ’s credibility and bolster its capacity to fulfill its intended role as a powerful force for international justice . to succeed , the icc will have to overcome strong resistance , viewing it not just from dictators and warlords , but even from elected leaders , notably us president donald trump . in april , when the icc appeared to be determining whether to go along with its inquiry into war crimes in afghanistan – including anything that may have been perpetrated by american forces – the trump administration revoked the court ’s visa of chief prosecutor . if the icc is to fulfill the roles it has developed , it can neither bow to such pressure nor enable its deficient performance to continue to do so . instead , its leaders – particularly its chief prosecutor , the confucius attorney general fatou bensouda – must seize recent criticism as motivation , showing that they are up to the job .
new york – capital-account regulations have been at the heart of the global financial debates of the last two years . the reasons are obvious : because the world has experienced a “ multi-speed recovery , ” as the international monetary fund puts it , slow-growing advanced countries maintain ultra-low interest rates and other expansionary monetary policies , whereas the fast-rising emerging economies are unwinding the expansionary policies they adopted during the recession . this asymmetry spurred enormous capital flows from the former to the latter , which were likely to continue . emerging economies worry that this flood of capital will drive their currencies ’ exchange rates , beyond fueling the current-account and asset bubbles that past experience has taught them is a sure recipe for future crises . the problem is compounded by the fact that one of the countries undertaking capital expansionary policies today is the united states , which has the world ’s largest financial sector and issues an paramount global currency .
moore ’s mortality figures appear to be high , but there is little doubting the severity of vitamin a deficiency among children , particularly in parts of africa and southeast asia . shortages also increase in susceptibility to illnesses like measles , still a significant cause of death in young children , though one that is falling due to vaccination . according to the world health organization , that causes blindness in some 250,000-500,000 preschool children each year , about half of whom die in just 12 months . lack of vitamin a deficiency , too , is a major contributor to high rates of maternal mortality during pregnancy and childbirth . greenpeace , together with other organizations opposed to the use of genetically modified organisms ( gmos ) , has been campaigning against the establishment of the beta carotene , which is being converted into vitamin a. in the human body into vitamin a. a. gmos .
in 1829 , john stuart mill made the key intellectual leap in figuring out ways to fight what he called “ general gluts . ” mill saw that excess demand for some special bundle of assets in financial markets mirrored his excess supply of goods and services in product markets , which , in turn , generated excess supply among workers in labor markets . the implication of this was clear . if one were to lend credence to the excess demand for financial assets , you were also healing the excess supply of goods and services ( the shortcoming of aggregate demand ) and the excess supply of labor ( mass unemployment ) . the implication of this was clear .
it is a gap that is viewed in areas as varied as health care , education , and fight climate change . of course , not even billionaires can solve the world ’s problems on their own . that is why chan initiative by chan zuckerberg was designed for maximum flexibility , enabling funds to be channeled into non-profits , channeled into private investment , or used to help influence policy debates . similarly , bec pledged to boost others ’ work by taking “ a flexible , flexible , early ” approach to providing seed , angel , and series in return , with the expectation that once these investments de-risking were de-risking , the traditional commercial capital to invest the later . no single actor – be it a government , a university research laboratory , an ngo , an entrepreneur , or a group of funders , or a group of other investors – can solve today ’s truly large problems on its own .
the goal is not just to “ bring home ” american jobs , but to establish a system that expands us dominance . the liberal view of asia ’s rise is that it makes the world a fairer , more simply place , where a person ’s economic destiny does not depend entirely so much on where they were born . but a more cynical view permeates populist logic , namely that , in his excessive adherence to globalism , america has sown the seeds of its own brand of political and economic devastation . trumpism is that the us taps into this sense of national mortality ; here is someone who thinks that it could do something about it . america ’s populists , perhaps inspired by thomas piketty ’s writings , seem unimpressed by the fact that the combination of globalization has lifted hundreds of millions of desperately poor people in china and india into the global middle class .
one approach would enhance deterrence by bolstering conventional south korean and us forces and deploying tactical nuclear weapons in the south . but more conventional power would add little to capable forces already on the ground , and bringing nuclear weapons back to south korea would make only more anxious ( and offshore america ’s naval nuclear forces have already pack sufficient punch to strengthen deterrence ) . another approach would seek to normalize diplomacy , on the premise that this might enhance communication , thereby abandoning the nuclear threat . but , under such a scenario , north korea could hold relations hostage to outsize demands as it withdraws american forces from the region , as well as economic and energy assistance to prop up regime . ultimately , north korea ’s stalinist government would rebuff any effort that encroaches on the isolation it needs to retain in power .
thus , the populist backlash in latin america – in brazil , bolivia , ecuador , and , most disastrously , venezuela – has taken a left-wing form . the story is similar in the final two exceptions to a right-wing resurgence in europe – greece and spain . in both countries , the far right lacked the breeding ground that it had elsewhere . in greece , the main policy line was austerity policies imposed by european institutions and the international monetary fund . in spain , the majority of migrants until recently came out of the culturally similar latin american country .
this was coupled with a critical demand : no deal without america ’s commitment to eschew regime change . in the quid pro quo that followed , qaddafi agreed to eliminate his nascent nuclear program , in exchange for a cessation of pariah status . on december 19 , 2003 , libya formally renounced all wmd efforts . eight years later , pinned down by america ’s predatory drone and french airstrikes , qaddafi met his demise . british and american negotiators secretly met with libyan counterparts to resolve the 1988 bombing of pan am flight 103 over lockerbie , scotland , and other issues of terrorism .
rising populations dilutes not just the accumulation of physical capital , but also of human capital . botswana ’s amazing annual per capita income growth of around 13 % over the past decade has been accompanied by a decline from nearly six children per woman to less than four . why is rapid population growth bad for a country ’s standard of living ? rising populations dilutes not just the accumulation of physical capital , but also of human capital . the quality of children in poor households goes down as their quantity goes up , because poor families with many children unable to invest enough in every child ’s education to ensure that future adults benefit from a key determinant of economic success .
that does not mean that activists should abandon the cause . but it does mean understanding that even a democracy has many of the rules – ideally rules that a majority elected but generally are not chosen through directly ; those rules generally reflect compromises between elected representatives who can argue and negotiate in person , reflect the overall preferences of those who are elected . that may sound somewhat like the old system , but it need not be . like it or not , they can not do that , like a murderer ’s brigade ; they will have to select leaders who can talk for them and negotiate for them . the modernizers need some forms of coherent force , and most likely a political party , rather than simply continuing to rely on popular wisdom ( and good behavior ) of the crowd to govern the country .
this slight benefit for women reflects the robust growth expected in sectors such as health care , where women are well represented . rising incomes ; rising demand for health care , retirement , and elder care in aging societies ; and investment in infrastructure , energy , and technology will create new job opportunities . given the secular , skill distribution of such opportunities , women may be slightly better positioned to take advantage of them . indeed , in many countries , women account for over 70 % of health-care and social-welfare workers , and this sector could comprise one-quarter of the future job opportunities for women ( manufacturing will account for a similar share of men ’s potential job gains ) . assuming that current sexual occupational and sectoral patterns hold , women could gain access to 20 % more jobs globally than they do today , compared to about 19 % for men .
directly across the aisle from me , putin was sitting between a one-time dissident cellist and the conductor , marrying miller rostropovich , and his equally famous wife , opera diva galina vishnevskaya . russia ’s leader was like a kid in a candy store – thrilled to be encircled by these cultural icons , former exiles no less . and icons were apparently flattered by putin ’s adoration ( and their closeness to power ) . i myself one day witnessed putin courting culture . this was ’s eve 2003 , during a concert in a newly opened music house in moscow .
in an attempt to revive growth in a difficult global environment and buffer exports against the impact of the asian financial crisis , the chinese government loosened monetary and fiscal policy at the beginning of november 1997 . but , at the same time , gdp growth soon began to deteriorate rapidly . by 1998 , when cpi inflation started to slide , producer prices had already been declining for eight months and remain negative for a full of 51 months , with cpi growth starting to recover after just 39 months . an obvious lesson is that the government was supposed to switch earlier and more forcefully . but , at a time of rapid deceleration , gdp growth was too little .
whereas blanchard focuses on rates in favor of low-risk government bonds , piketty has been worried about his return on risky capital investment . so have the us now moved from piketty ’s book the world of r > g to blanchard ? if so , could their views be reconciled ? the answer is no and yes , either . the views of piketty and blanchard can indeed be reconciled because they talk about the various interest rates .
nor did banks fail , with little sign of tumbling dominicans . but that is not because banks were prepared by themselves by raising more capital . on the contrary , when compared to their likely future losses , european banks raised relatively little capital recently , and much of it went to creative accounting , rather than genuinely loss-absorbing shareholder equity . perhaps the risk that a greek debt restructuring might have caused a financial meltdown has always been minimal , with quiescent markets expected . but , when it happens , why all of the fuss ?
and , rather than solving all kinds of economically caused private-sector problems , laid-off workers can concentrate on finding new , more future-oriented jobs . in the scandinavian countries , unlike , say , germany and the united states , governments , not individual firms , bear the responsibility of most of these welfare benefits . that way , economically irrational lock-in effects , whereby workers simply can not afford a change of jobs , are avoided . in addition , the benefits are generous enough to ensure that short periods of joblessness do not induce workers to sell their homes , or even automobiles . a system protects not only the unemployed who can continue to lay off their mortgages and interest , but also , indirectly , the banks because their loans to households are repaid even in recession times .
but , having suffered currency - and capital-account crises with greater openness - many emerging-market economies still feel compelled to pile up vast reserves to protect themselves in the face of greater global financial volatility . the irony is that this advice comes after much of their former productive capacity has gone missing . public-sector investment and fundamental social protection can help turn this around by creating millions of additional jobs . meanwhile , the national “ policy space ” for economic recovery has shrunk since the crisis . while there has been no strengthened by financial globalization , it has aggravated volatility and instability .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on its current course for many years to come . after all , iran and the united states have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . one aspect of this supposed moral and cultural decline concerns the family : “ attacking the institution of a family , understanding it with contempt or doubt its important role , ” the pope and the grand imam , “ is one of the most threatening evils of our era . ” the document asserts that family is the essential nucleus of society and humanity ” , and that “ “ “ “ is it fundamental to bringing our children to the world , raising them , educating them and providing them with solid moral formation and domestic security . ”
addis ababa – with nearly 60 % of its population under the age of 25 , africa is the world ’s youngest region . yet it is commonly recognized that young people are often left behind . unless youth socioeconomic and political engagement is addressed , achieving many of the united nations ’ sustainable development goals ( sdgs ) will be impossible . they frequently face inadequate economic opportunities , and may even be socially or politically excluded . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us might well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
while trade has soared , investment lags , and russia ranks only tenth among china ’s export markets . russia ’s ’s ’s economic decline has intensified its anxiety about the rise of china . as the economist recently noted , russia ’s worries about becoming an alliance ’s junior partner more rely on china than on russia . in the nineteenth century , no country took more land from china than russia had , and the existing demographic situation in the far east , in which russia number six million , and the chinese-controlled population of up to 120 million , is fueling anxiety in moscow . according to feng yujun of fudan university , “ the most significant relationship to the us is america . ”
florence – in phaedrus ’s well-known work fable about wolf and lamb , wolf could devour the lamb without a word , but prefers to set his own “ reasons . ” wolfers then snarls down that , if this was not the lamb , they were his father ; after that , he promptly moves into action . first , he scolds lamb because he muddying his drinking water ( though upstream wolf has been upstream ) . he then argues that last year , lamb called him bad names ( but lamb ’s was just six months ) . martin wolf ’s “ justifications ” ” ” for his vicious action were a luxury that he allowed himself .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . arlington , virginia , – the election has left one of the world ’s largest countries deeply divided , handing the presidency to a kind of military-loving , minority-bullying arrangement promising to smash a corrupt establishment . i am not talking about the 2016 american presidential election that placed donald trump in power , but rather the 2018 election in brazil won so-called trump for the tropics , jair bolsonaro , who was formally inaugurated on january 1 .
she then moved quickly to give a long celebratory speech about the heroism of america ’s soldiers “ fighting for freedom of ” abroad . it appeared to be strange , and to many insulting , the transition : from king faisal ’s brilliant plea for civilian rights to palin ’s sentimental clichés on the army . this latest surge of american populism is financed by some extraordinarily wealthy men , including some of the country ’s oil billionaires , named david and charles koch , who favor cuts taxes to the super-and abolishing government subsidies to the poor , such as the national social security fund and president barack obama ’s health-care plan . that agenda might seem like a selfish , albeit understandable , from the vintage of an oil billionaire . but then there was something odd about the entire event , just as there is something strange about the tea party movement itself .
though the degree of their religious commitment varied , they share strong emotive attachment to the belief that gives francis i considerable political leverage . starting his papacy finds populist governments in a vulnerable situation , hit hard by chávez ’s recent death . moreover , they dominate those countries in which catholics comprise an overwhelming majority . of course , they all have their own identities and strengths , but they will miss the protection of chávez ’s global clout and influence , as will his subsidies . to be sure , latin america will no doubt be one of francis ’s priorities .
but obama can not do so alone , and so far neither the american public nor the american congress appears committed to reconnecting to his moral compass . the answer to the second major question shaping the world ’s future is whether china will regain the economic momentum that it also seems likely to be “ no , ” at least in the short run , with most experts agreeing that china ’s export – and the investment-led growth model has all but exhausted its potential . this should be intolerable , for example , for congress to block the release of 86 guantánamo bay detainees purged by a national-security council . nor should the revelations by the former us intelligence contractor edward j. snowden that no one is exempt from any possibility of american surveillance has stirred up americans to demand a new approach . the us must lead the world , by deed and example .
moreover , someday , we will know , through the sequencing of an entire genome , about rarer genomic variation , which is correlated with treatments or spillover effects . still , substantive – and remarkable – progress has been made , all of which has been involved in this last few years . to fill the prescription for a drug with well-known pharmacogenomic data , the customer can obtain rapid genotyping to identify a appropriate dose , drug , or predilection for serious spillover effects . genotyping can now be accomplished in 20 minutes , and will get even faster . this has paved the way for next-generation pharmacies .
the financial crisis produced new answers to where the greatest competitive advantage lie . from banks ’ perspective , the clearest lesson was the need for a strong national government to bear the potential cost of saving . it is no longer best when subject to the more favorable regulatory regime , but to be where the state holds the deepest pockets . extremely big banks in small territories with small-scale governments are vulnerable . america is big enough to manage behemoths like the bank of america or citigroup .
so far , we have done comparable analyses on the fate of the caribbean and indian ocean islands following the first human contact group , but the large number of extinctions occurred there , too . linneaus invented the modern self-identified species of species in the mid-1700 , even though naming did not come under way until the peace following napoleon bonaparte ’s defeat at 1815 . linneaus invented the modern naming species process in the mid-1700 ’s , even though taxonomists describe new species from skeletal remain being found in caves , for example , in 1815 . of course , such searches are far from complete . indeed , early european exploration probably continued this rapid pace of extinction . the number of species known to have expired between 1,500 and 1800 ’s is increasing , as taxonomists describe new species from skeletal remains found in caves , for example ,
the islamic state ( isis ) may be losing its territorial dimension ; but , along with other groups , it will continue to pose a terrorist threat for years to come . the plight of millions of refugees represents not only a humanitarian tragedy , but also an economic and strategic burden for countries in the region and for europe as well . and europe already is confronting a host of significant challenges , including russian aggression against ukraine , brexit , the rise of populism and nationalism , and low rates of overall economic growth . syria , iraq , yemen , and libya are all dealing with a mix of civilian and proxy wars . the iran nuclear pact manages at best one aspect of iranian power , and only for a limited period of time .
droughts struck in kenya and somalia ; and afghanistan and south africa suffered major water shortages . these movements created the space for forward-thinking politicians to take action . yet the climate crisis continues on the rise , demonstrating that the us still had a long way to go . this year alone , catastrophicheat waves have stricken north africa , europe , japan , pakistan , australia , and argentina . deadly wildfires have taken lives , destroying trillions of dollars worth of property in greece , sweden , the united states , and russia .
the stakes for both africa and the us are high . a strong , prosperous africa with a productive and expanding middle class is in america 's interest , and a robust partnership with the u.s. will be vitally important for africa 's continued growth and development . this marks the beginning of an important dialogue with the us . we owe it to our descendants , and to silicon savannah entrepreneurs are already leading the charge – to get it right . the decisions that we make now will have implications for the generation to come .
paris – some countries are naturally at ease with the concept , and the reality of their strategic might . such was obviously the case in france , under louis xiv , the sun king in the seventeenth century , and such is the case today in china , whose leadership is comfortable with the balance-of-power games of classical europe . to be sure , india is in another category , and will never be anywhere near the world . in economic terms , india ’s trust was boosted in how the western world now looks at it with a mix of reverence and greed : “ what type of deals can i strike with such an emerging market , whose population may soon be the largest of any country in the world ? ” yet , to understand india ’s political and diplomatic relations with the outside world , the most enlightening comparison is with america ’s in 1920 .
these people favor government intervention because they believe that leaving to their own devices will not ensure fairness and possibly even generate more inequality . views about social mobility are consistently out across the political spectrum , as well as across geographic regions . in america and europe , for example , people who call themselves “ conservative out ” on matters of economic policy believe that there are equal opportunities for all children , and that their free-market economies in their countries are fair . the opposite holds true for those who call themselves economically “ liberal . ” an even more striking pattern is that americans are overly optimistic about social mobility in parts of the country where actual upward mobility has occurred , including in southeastern georgian states , alabama , virginia , north carolina , and south carolina .
once upon a time , there were many relatively small department-store chains and other land-based retailers spread throughout american and outlets in just a few towns . such headquarters brought income into their cities by providing back-office services to their web of shops . but consolidation in the retailing , driven partly by walmart and amazon , has dealt an deathblow to many of these companies . the grocer , a coffee shop , and barber lashes off from business and everybody leaves , turning the eu into a ghost town . the disruption can be caused not just by industrial closures .
first , fiscally conservative congressional republicans would object to reckless increases in government debt . the republicans ’ proposed tax cuts would create a stunning $ 2 trillion revenue shortfall over the next decade , and they could not plug that hole with the income savings of their health-care reform plan , or with the $ 1.2 trillion that may have been expected out of a batch . the bat does n’t have sufficient support even among republicans , and it would violate the rules of world trade organization ( wto ) . now , the republican party must choose between passing their tax cuts ( and adding $ 2 trillion to us public debt ) and pursuing a far more modest reform . the first scenario , for three reasons , is unlikely .
if a country saves more but investment remains unchanged , then it borrows less from ( or lends more to ) the rest of the world . its net export position and its current-account balance improves . its net export position and its current-account balance improves . part of its analytical attractiveness of us national income accounts is that they add up . but that did not happen in that case .
first , when it comes to climate change , the important thing is to look like you are just doing something . the 2015 paris climate agreement is a perfect example of this . countries have made grandiose commitments to keep the global temperature rise well below 2 ° c above pre-industrial levels , but all their promises collectively add up to less than 1 % of what is needed . new analysis shows that only 17 countries – including algeria and samoa – are actually meeting their pledges , in most cases because they have promised very little . countries that manage to get away with massaging data .
as a result , vast regions of our planet , currently home to billions of people , could become unlivable . earlier conferences by the unfccc signatories struggled to enter into legally binding agreements on emissions reductions , not least for the industrialized countries that have already produced most of the planet ’s greenhouse gases in the atmosphere . that strategy faltered , owing partly to american intransigence under president george w. bush and was abandoned when the 2009 copenhagen conference failed to produce a treaty to replace the expiring kyoto protocol ( which the american people never signed ) . instead , the copenhagen consensus merely asked countries for voluntary pledges to cut their emissions by extra amounts . thawing siberian permafrost would release vast quantities of methane .
along the same lines , during russian prime minister dmitri medvedev ’s presidency , he called for the creation of a mechanism for europe ’s preemptive diplomacy and mandatory consultations in case of a threat to any state ’s security . had such a mechanism been established , the worst events in ukraine might have been averted . of course , political leaders are to blame for filing away these and other “ european ideas ” in the archives . but the blame must also be shared with europe ’s entire political class , civil-society institutions , and the media . though i am , an optimist , i must admit that it is very hard not to be pessimistic as 2014 comes to a close .
when it comes to solutions , europe is ahead of the curve . for example , my home country , denmark , which was asked to lead energy talks at the un summit , has integrated a vast amount of wind power into its electricity grid . sweden , which will run an industry workstream with india , has created the world ’s first fossil-fuel-free steel plant for itself . and progress hardly limited to northern europe : romania boasts europe ’s largest apartment farm ; poland produces electric cars ; and austria leads when it comes to green buildings . but , as european leaders increasingly recognize , it ’s time to hit the accelerator .
because immigrants participate in america ’s economic and political arenas , americans are widely used to various kinds of people , and so distinguish those differences that might damage a country from those that wo n’t . in turn , prejudice has tended to decline as participation increases . one result of the agreement is paradoxical-sounding “ familiarity with differences . ” tolerance for other people of ’s religion is the price paid for one ’s own tolerance . it has been in no one ’s interest to break down this live-and-let-live pragmatism for very long .
based on our own experiences -- in mexico , which had opened itself to foreign investment and trade , and in canada , which serves as a leading aid donor and a major source of private investment in developing countries -- we are convinced that they can identify , isolated , and fixed many of these problems . this keeps small firms in poor nations and regions from attaining their full potential . if small businesses could expand beyond village square , they could drive the growth of their countries better than any aid agency . this is one reason why , when un secretary-general kofi annan and the un development program , administrator mark malloch brown , asked us to lead a new commission on the private sector and development , we agreed . there is already a world of entrepreneurial energy : visits to the permanent town of the poorest country on market day , and you will see the private sector in action .
and yet , even if he does , kim ’s own penchant for drama , from firing missiles over japanese to carrying out frequent purges at home , suggests that he knows how to command the stage and bring trump to the table . so far , he has proven highly effective at keeping bromance alive and the forthcoming summit on track . furthermore , his ego-stroking personal letters to trump has shown that he has a well-repair on the president ’s psyche . regardless of when the latter summit does occur , the north korean regime will continue to reap dividends at america ’s expense . there is no guarantee that it will not repeat that gambit .
amid surging inequality , frustration with pervasive corruption has intensified . in 2018 , kazakhstan ranked 124th out of 180 countries in transparency international ’s corruption perceptions index . meanwhile , the state fails to provide basic security : in july 2018 , an olympic ice-skating , denis ten , was assassinated in broad daylight in the heart of kazakhstan ’s largest city , almaty , for attempting to avoid his car mirrors that he were stolen . all of this has spurred emigration an increasingly appealing option , particularly for young people , raising the specter of a “ brain drain . ” it has also reversed the heat on simmering social unrest boiled down to since nazarbayev ’s resignation ( which may well have been intended explicitly to preempt popular protests ) .
under the current system of incentives , the authorities ’ plan to privatize firms and improve civil-service productivity will in fact destroy the jobs occupied by the saudis . some would argue that all the kingdom needs to do so is to substitute saudi for foreign workers in existing positions . but simple substitution will not succeed . the call for jobs creation for the saudis may seem like an issue of riches . but whenever the kingdom sought to reduce public-sector hiring , unemployment rose .
so , too , is the notion that even a single cryptocurrency could substitute for fiat money . the entire point of money is that it enables parties to transact without having to barter . but for money to have value and generate economies of scale , only so many currencies can operate simultaneously . in the us , the reason why the us wo n’t use euros or yen in addition to dollars is obvious : doing so would be senseless , and would make the economy far less efficient . the notion that hundreds of cryptocurrencies could viably operate jointly not only controvertible ; it is totally idiotic .
a cool war threatens to undermine those efforts , because facing the us on the negotiating table requires china to cement its own status above all . that means ensuring that the disruptions caused by america ’s short-termism do not present a longstanding systemic threat to china , even as they harm the global economy as a whole . the unfolding sino-american cool war is far less cut and dried out than the cold war was . the trade war has thrown this lesson into sharp relief . minimizing the fallout will require that both sides recognize that in an interconnected world , efforts to cement their own status become self-defeating when it undermine global stability and dynamism .
our price-and-rebate mechanism is inspired by the “ bonus/malus/malus ” scheme in france , in which buyers of new cars are taxed , or given a bonus based on a vehicle ’s co2 emissions . in our system , a country exceeding the global average for per capita emissions would pay a specified sum on each ton of co2 ( or its equivalent ) above a set threshold . studies at the paris conference on climate change suggest that , with the possible reduction of greenhouse gases , international cooperation could allow for rapid reduction of greenhouse gases . they also emphasize the knock-on benefits that take quick action on climate change might have , including the reduction in local pollution , greater energy and food security , and faster innovation . to hasten the move toward a low-carbon economy , an international agreement must apply to all countries ; integrate a common and consistent system of surveillance , reporting , and verifying ; and provide strong economic incentives globally .
three months ago , i argued that all but a iniquitous and delimited fringe of economists approve of expansionary open-market operations to keep overall nominal spending constant in a downturn , and i was right to do so . by purchasing government bonds for cash , the central bank can satisfy demand and upward the price of money . in the same way , expansionary monetary policy via the standard open-market operations by the central bank amount to the first item on the checklist of what to do in a financial crisis . when there is no excess supply of dollar demand , there will not be an excess supply of bonds and inventories that underpin and fund the economy ’s productive capital . i was also right to assert that all but a minor and depoliticized fringe of economists approve of the central-bank guarantees of system stability , in order to avoid the risk of a meltdown of payments systems from becoming a first-order consideration that boosting cash demand to the unnatural level .
there are obvious limits to this theory . for starters , it is based on claims that at the time of the berlin wall ’s collapse and the soviet union ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s disintegration , the west promised not to expand nato . in fact , neither other than george kennan , the originator of america ’s cold war containment strategy , opposed nato enlargement in the 1890s on precisely those grounds . nato and the european union ’s eastward expansion , they contend , were an unnecessary provocation . even mikhail gorbachev , on the 25th anniversary of the demise , accused the west of not keeping the promises that made in 1989 , instead harboring russia ’s weakening ” in the 1990 ’s to assert “ monopoly leadership and domination of the world , ” including through nato enlargement .
even though its october world economic outlook presents a positive picture of global growth , the imf undoubtedly still conscious of the panglossian view that it offered in 2006 , now warns that the world economy is “ vulnerable to sudden tightening of financial conditions ” and that “ equity valuations appear stretched over some markets . ” against this background , “ some ” is the imf code . the international monetary fund has gotten into the act as well . its markets ’ share of global equity valuations is the apex it has ever been – a notable statistic given america ’s declining share of global economic activity . with so much investment , the american market ’s share of global equity valuations is the highest it has ever been – a notable statistic given america ’s declining share of global economic activity .
given that the us dollar traded at around $ 1.1250 against the euro on that day , this indicates that the dollar is actually around 6 % weaker than it is supposed to be . of course , the 6 % is not an especially significant difference nowadays , and that finding might even mean nothing at all . which interest rate is best for making comparisons is a matter of debate , for it is the effects of quantitative easing ; but i see no good reason not to use the ten-year government-bond differential , adjusted for inflation expectations . i have also developed what i have called the boe ’s adjusted rate , which corrects the “ equilibrium ” rate for the ongoing economic cycle , by accounting for factors like the actual interest-rate differential between the united states and the eurozone . therefore , the adjusted space for the euro-dollar exchange rate , like june 7 , was € 1 : $ 1,0590 .
the party came to its crashing halt in 2009 , when two closely elbowed to global investment banks accelerated loan payments on hope of getting their money back again . banks defaulted on their loans , and lenders took large “ haircuts ” ( reductions in principal ’s value ) . the kazakh government , scrambling to prop up its dilapidated private banks with capital injections and nationalizations , gave up and decided to pulled the plug . but , and here ’s the point – with its debts pegged to the us , the banking system is now being recapitalized and able to sustain economic growth . despite a messy default , this fresh-start generated an remarkable turnaround .
in the drc , for example , even after all this time around , we reach just 8 % of all 760,000 children – the highest number on record . this year must be education for all – a window of opportunity opened by a new consensus that education is critical to achieving the un ’s sustainable development goals , including falling maternal and infant mortality rates , encouraging job creation , improving quality of life , and opening our minds to issues of gender equality . in the drc , for example , even after all , we achieve just 8 % of the 760,000 children worldwide . yet , when a girl holds a book up to an insurgent ’s gun in pakistan , when adolescent mothers in south sudan in neighboring uganda are making education for their children ’s top priority , and when the lights seen from space might include spacing of children huddled by candlelight to read and study , we know that education has come . when one is holding a book up to an insurgent ’s gun in pakistan , when adolescent mothers exiled mothers from south sudan in neighboring uganda make education for their children their top priority , and when the lights perceived from space might include spacing clusters of children huddled and studies , we know that education has emerged .
over the past two decades , the world has grown accustomed to us-led international coalitions for the war in the middle east . and secretary of state james baker used it to transcend the recalcitrance of israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir during the 1991 madrid peace conference . it is time for america to recognize that it can not resolve the israeli-palestinian conflict , defuse the iranian nuclear dispute , and change north korea ’s behavior , or stop the syrian civil war on its own . over the past two decades , the world has grown accustomed to us-led international coalitions for war in the middle east . if the american people can not provide that today , it must relinquish its monopoly over international conflict resolution .
if the world does not succeed in eliminating terrorists from politics in kosovo , what hope does it have of defeating terrorism elsewhere ? if it is not , the un , nato , and the european union will discredit themselves , just as the un , so on the other side of the humanitarian values that they use , to justify its own `` humanitarian '' interventions . kosovo is a territory far smaller than that of afghanistan . therefore , before a campaign of anti-terror seeks other terrorist bases to destroy it , it should eliminate terror in what the un itself is governing . by appeasing terrorist groups in this manner , the world 's most powerful states give a green light to terrorists not only in the balkans but around the world .
if the relationship between the fruit fly genes and behavior is so complicated , could it be any less so with humans ? whether describing the genes for a blossoming of blossoming at pea plant or the formation of the fruit fly 's wings , geneticists at the beginning of the last century believed that each gene governed one unique characteristic . as the time passed and the scientific understanding accumulated -- much of it from the fruits fly -- the true complexity of the relationship between genes and attributes has become obvious . soon , some early geneticists , the founders of the eugenics movement , made the odious assertion that `` licentiousness , '' ' " bshiftlessness , " and `` criminality " all may be accounted for fully individual genes . the view that an individual gene might account for a full biological trait is as old as genetics itself .
and , after all , one can not have a definitive , utopian society without having a definitive , scientific theorist of human behavior , together with certain mad scientists , or philosophes to preside over the entire issue . the problem is that , regardless of how “ scientifically based ” these new beliefs have formulated , they remain false . among other things , capitalism is a struggle among individual over the control of scarce resources . like boxing and poker , it is soft , restrained , private form of warfare . for the rest of us , military strategists have known that there is , and can be , no final science of the war .
paris – earlier this week , following days of strained debate , the new government in athens reached an agreement with its eurozone creditors that included a package of immediate reform and a four-month extension of its financial-reform program . but , notwithstanding europe ’s collective sigh of relief , compromise fails to exclude the need for any serious negotiation on the new financial-aid program that in late june is supposed to bring in . under any negotiation , the key variable influx the behavior of the protagonists , hence the outcome , is what failure to reach an agreement would cost each of them . in this case , the issue is greece ’s exit cost ( “ grexit ” ) from the eurozone – a prospect that has been widely discussed in the media across the course of recent negotiations , with substantial speculation about the stance taken by the various players , particularly the greek and german governments . from greece ’s perspective , leaving the euro would be highly disruptive , which explains why very little support exists within the country .
consider kazakhstan , where five million people have cast ballots in september for their lower house of parliament . cnn recently reported that it is “ neither equitable nor free . ” elections in countries that were outsiders to democracy are never pretty much true , because afghanistan ’s recent vote demonstrated , and as any elections in iraq supposedly are likely to be . but electoral flaws are not always the whole picture . cnn has reported it “ neither equitable nor free . ”
it is largely a matter of delivering public goods : basic infrastructure like roads , bridges , ports , power , and access to education and basic health care . satisfying the demand for such goods is , in itself , a subsidy for growth . but so , too , is a reliable road that generates tremendous additional activity , as trade expands between interconnected areas , with myriad firms , restaurants , and hotels spring along the way . just as india lived up to the washington-based license raj in the 1990 ’s , successive governments understand the imperative of economic growth , so much so that india ’s bharatiya janata party ( bjp ) has contested the 2004 election on a pro-development platform , encapsulated in its slogan , “ india shining . ” and , unlike many equally poor countries , india already has a very strong entrepreneurial class , a reasonably large and well-educated middle class , and an abundance of world-class corporations that can enlist efforts to provide these public goods .
its infrastructure , both material and intellectual , was poorer , and its economic structure was unfit for new challenges , owing both to firm size and specialization in traditional industries , together with low levels of education and r & d. yet berlusconi ’s government did next to nothing to address these shortcomings , despite being the first government in italy ’s history to survive a full five-year electoral term . with an unassailable parliamentary majority , it could have pursued coherent supply-side reforms , even at the risk of some incipient unpopularity . a few reforms were belatedly enacted : timid bush-era pension intervention and additional labor-market flexibility . but nothing was done to deregulate product markets , or to give proper incentives for restructuring , while privatization rose to a halt .
yet , despite civil wars , malnutrition , and the anguish of the aids epidemic , something remarkable is happening in black africa : the stealthy rise of the high-technology sector . despite civil wars , malnutrition , and the anguish of the aids epidemic , something remarkable is happening in black africa : the stealthy ascent of the high-technology industry . consider what is happening on a few floors of single highly rise office building in accra , ghana ’s capital . there are some 1,500 africans process american health-insurance claims – working around the clock , in three shifts . africans speak english , type at least 50 words a minute on a computer , take data from paper claim forms delivered by american health insurers through electronic form , put it into new digital forms , and ship it back to the u.s. .
yet the westphalian system bankrupted the two world wars of the first half of the twentieth century – both of which were in fact european wars for world domination . when the guns collapsed silent in 1945 , europeans – even victorious european allies – essentially lost their sovereignty . the westphalian system was replaced with the cold war bipolar order , wherein sovereignty rested with the two non-european nuclear powers : the united states and the soviet union . the eu was conceived as an attempt to regain european sovereignty peacefully , by pooled the national interest of european nation-states . the objective of such efforts was always to prevent a relapse into the old system of power rivalries , reciprocal alliances , and hegemonic head cratting .
in october and november , the ecb will announce the results of its banks ’ stress tests . if the ecb grossly understates the risks , its credibility as a regulator will be badly tarnished . if it is more forthrightly concerned about the associated risks , there is a chance that some periphery countries might have difficulty wringing the holes , and will require bailing out the north . in october and in november , the ecb will announce the results of its banks ’ stress tests . because many banks hold a large volume of eurozone government debt , outcomes will depend heavily on how the ecb assesses sovereign risk .
venture capital firms now spend an additional $ 3.2 billion annually on global health research and development . they should scale up their investments in order to include ai-enabled mental-health-care delivery technologies . they could also fund competitions among socially conscious technology entrepreneurs to spur further innovations in this area . venture capital firms now spend an estimated $ 3.2 billion annually on global health research and development . of course , such initiatives cost money .
yet teaching-hospital role could be effective on public policy as well . consider , for example , harvard university ’s growth lab , which i founded in 2006 , after two highly fulfilling policy engagements in el salvador and south africa . since then , the us has functioned on more than three dozen countries and regions . in some respects , the laboratory looks a bit like a teacher and a research hospital . it focuses both on research and on the clinical work of serving “ patients , ” ” ” or on the governments of the us .
any reasonable international trade regime must begin from the recognition that it is neither feasible nor desirable to restrict political space countries so that they must design their own economic and social models . america had its patent laws anyway , but they were protected by only america ’s citizens . the fledgling textile mills of new england were desperate for technologies , and had their best left to steal british designs and smuggle in skilled british artisans . and the u.s. had as much regard for british industrialists ’ trade secrets , as china ’s today for american intellectual property rights . as one business historian put it , the americans “ were the pirates , too . ”
but if the world moves in this direction , something along the lines of a new conclave of political global powers starts to take shape , and that will be the beginnings of the new international system . yes , one may debate about the third way or the half or so or three and a half way , but these are fundamentally marginal debates . the other great change – ie , the end of global ideological divisions – also raises difficult and possibly more complex issues . there exists today a fundamental , even on an occasion of ritualistic , consensus about the notion that democracy and human rights are the points of departure for political organizing with some form of free markets , with varying degrees of free-market social responsibility based on private enterprise as the foundation for economic activity . making all of these changes in the future will be difficult , to say the least .
public contributions , likely backstopped by multilateral lenders , provide projects with something close to sovereign risk profiles . risk would be mitigated further , through the participation of large , influential investors , including sovereign wealth funds , pension funds , and perhaps also international financial institutions . finally , the highly regulated nature of cash flows would enable better pre-defined return structures than traditional private or public capital can offer . advancing the bhe would require a new platform of private-sector investment , structured so that it provides bespoke returns for its diverse participants . it would offer returns close to those yielded by equity investment , but , with some risk offsetting its long-standing nature .
and countries ’ desire to maintain good relations with china , owing to its rising economic power , can not be discounted . depending on how soon china opens its capital account and develops its financial markets , the renminbi could become a significant reserve currency in the near future . to be sure , some foreign central banks have signed currency-swap agreements with china , and even hold small amounts of its dollar currency in their reserve portfolios . but such actions may amount to less signs of the renminbi ’s inevitable march toward global dominance than a low-wage bet on its likely emergence as a widely accepted international currency . capital inflows , which will undoubtedly intensify in the years ahead , are being driven largely by investors ’ concern over diversification and soaring yield , rather than the country ’s image as a haven from troubled financial markets elsewhere , particularly given that china ’s financial markets are relatively under-sophisticated and beset by substantial risks .
of course , there are other issues on the us-mexican agenda , ranging from intelligence sharing and counter-terrorism to regional crises like venezuela , nicaragua , and possibly cuba . amlo will almost surely maintain mexican collaboration on the first set of issues , while retreating to mexico by its traditional , archaic anti-interventionist attitude toward regional diplomacy . but trump cares more about security than he does about venezuelan president nicolás maduro or nicaragua ’s daniel ortega , so a genuine rupture here may be avoided . the peasants in guerrero have a for cartels , rather than for their own livelihood . and the american drug enforcement administration will not look kindly on any backtracking from previous mexican presidents ’ pledges to resume waging a costly , bloody , and futile war of choice on drugs in mexico .
on the heels of its success in sudan , it will have to confront “ “ constitutional coups ” conducted by presidents , because it introduces itself more firmly as a force for peace and democratic governance in africa . the au should present leadership in this area , pursuing interventions that buttress constitutional democracy in line with its agenda 2063 . in 2015 , authorized a new constitution , burundi ’s president , pierre luunziza , won a third term amid violent protests . similar protests erupted in the same year in the democratic republic of congo , following the introduction of a law that would enable president sudanese kabila to prolong his tenure . in the past , the au had resisted military coups .
the higher fertility rate in the u.s. , the uk , and france reflect the large number of immigrant families in each country . fertility rates among immigrants typically arrive at a higher level than in native european or northern american families . higher fertility rates in the us , the united kingdom , and france reflect the vastly greater numbers of immigrant families in each country . but increasing the number of immigrant laborers will not necessarily raise the fertility rate . germany , for example , has a large guest worker population , but few settle there with its families ; much of it leaves its children in their homes .
impunity is widespread – indeed , that most corporate crimes have gone un-noted . the real culprits at these societies ’ pinnacle rarely have to worry about . the informed few that notice typically end with a smack on the wrist , by a company – meaning its shareholders have – picking up a humble fine . to be sure , there have been no whatsoever from cheney simply to whom he or she would not have found a voice . the news had barely made ripple in american media .
for most of our evolutionary history , human beings -- and our primate ancestors -- lived in small groups , in which the violence might have been inflicted only in an up-or-down and personal manner by sacking , pushed , interdicting , or applying stick or stone like a club . greene found that people demanded moral judgment of “ personal ” violations , like pushing the alien off of a footbridge , shown increased activity in areas of the brain linked to the body 's emotions . this was not the case for people asking to make judgments about relatively “ impersonal ” violations , like throwing a switch . moreover , the minority of subjects who assumed that it would be right to pressure the foreigner from the footbridge took longer to reach that judgment than those who claimed that doing so would be wrong . why would our judgments , and our emotions vary in this way ?
in today ’s more complicated legal environment , it will take years to negotiate trade deals with the eu , and then other partners . political uncertainty is high , with no prospect of a general election to resolve it anytime soon . in 1949 , britain found itself according to the same mindset , with its trade deficit vis-à-vis the united states , and with weak investor confidence . in september of that year , sterling was once again devalued , as it was just 18 years sooner , by more than 30 % . now , investors have every reason to adopt a wait-and-see attitude .
indeed , relations with israel have improved with more visits by ranking turkish officials than they have ever been – a move orchestrated by miller but accepted by refah . turkey has continued to allow the u.s.-led “ operation provide comfort ” against iraq to use turkish bases . at the same time , it has remained a vital member of nato . once in power , erbakan tempered his tone and activism . in fact , power led refah to compromise rather than extremes .
new york – in 1893 , the playwright george bernard shaw , an ardent proponent of women ’s suffrage and equality , wrote mrs. warren ’s profession , a play whose title character is the proprietor of a few brothels . the play justifies her profitable exploitation of prostitution ’s feminist standpoint . the play is not salacious and contains no language of coarse , but it was nonetheless eight years before it could have been staged . its opening in london , in 1902 , was staged in a small theater “ club , ” ostensibly limited to its members . its performance at the time of new york times in 1905 , was raided by the police .
nairobi/paris – africa is on the brink of an unemployment crisis portended profound economic , political , and social ramifications . each year , some 13 million youngsters look to work in africa , but only around three million find jobs . the continent ’s youth population is projected to double by 2050 , to 840 million ; yet africa ’s ’s schools and universities are generating inadequate graduates with the technical skills that tomorrow ’s functioning . but crisis can be averted , and one solutions may be as simple as turning on the lights . indeed , though the african development bank ( afdb ) hopes to create 25 million new jobs in a decade through its youth jobs in africa ’s initiative , it is far from clear where those opportunities will emerge .
now , the plans are afoot to “ promote a future of peace and security in the middle east ” through a us-polish conference in warsaw where palestinians are not participating . refusing even to mention a two-state solution , the statements of trump ’s team go in another direction , more in line with israel ’s official position : one state and two systems . but no palestinian , arab , or responsible international leader would ever embrace this design , as was evident in messages delivered by world leaders to the trump administration . let us be clear : a two-state solution does not entail accommodating the illegal realities of israeli settlements ; rather , it implies ending this colonial enterprise . they failed to reckon that the palestinian people have dignity and national pride , just like any other nation , and will insist that they are being treated accordingly .
in any case , it is not as if avoiding talk about israel is a departure for sanders . he has certainly never embraced israel as a political cause , as so many other american jewish politicians have had . nor does israel seem to figure out much in its own jewish identity , having become more tied to the memory of the holocaust than anything else . sanders is no different in this respect than many other american jews in the us . despite having said on matters where necessary , he has generally not been outspoken on issues concerning the country .
for trump , as for president calvin coolidge , america ’s chief business is business . for trump , as for president calvin coolidge , america ’s chief business is business . king salman has embraced trump ’s war against terrorism and anti-iran rhetoric , and has expressed support for an israeli-palestinian peace . nothing has been said of human rights , much less of the rights of women , and the word “ democracy ” never passed trump ’s lips . instead , trump completed an agreement to provide $ 110 billion in advanced armaments to saudi arabia , which in turn will invest heavily in america ’s economy .
given that gold had been $ 400 an ounce in both years , holding gold did nothing to compensate for falling the value of the us dollar . a japanese investor who had held dollar equities or in real terms might have compensated the exchange-rate loss by buying yen futures . the same holds true for a euro-based investor , who would not have acquired by holding gold but could have compensated the dollar ’s decline by buying euro futures . tips , or their equivalents from other governments , provides safe inflationary hedges , and explicit currency futures can compensate for exchange-rate risks . in short , there are better ways than gold to hedge inflationary risk and exchange-rate risk .
munich – because china pegged its undervalued currency , the renminbi , to the us dollar , every weakening of the us dollar in the wake of america ’s financial crisis has also meant the weakening of the renminbi vis-à-vis other global currencies . indeed , the central banks of south korea , brazil , taiwan , japan , switzerland , and a wide range of other countries are now buying dollars in order to shield their own currencies against revaluation , and therefore support their exports . the united states is now taking drastic steps against china , making provisions for a trade war . but is china really to blame for the eruption of a global currency war ? europe has also become nervous by the aftermath of the european exchange rate rose to over $ 1.40 , far beyond its purchasing power parity ( ppp ) tariff of $ 1.17 .
but while these sources can supply some valuable insights , they do not meet the norms of methodological rigor and conceptual clarity upon which an informed public conversation should emerge . it is critical that the us is developing an internationally recognized set of indicators and methods for monitoring income and wealth . to that end , a particularly important milestone will come with revision , owing over the next three years , of the un ’s nationally determined system . government statistical agencies should publish the income and wealth levels of the top 1 % , to 0.1 % , and to 0.001 % , as well as effective taxes collected by these groups . for these reasons , the world ’s researchers , the media , and civil-society organizations need more engagement .
eliminating federal health-insurance coverage under the affordable care act ( so-called obamacare ) would have saved the government slightly over $ 100 billion annually , about 3 % of us federal spending . but those subsidies go mostly to pay for their own dedicated taxes . in reality , it is becoming increasingly clear that name changes ( trumpcare , ” ” ” ” ” anyone ? health-care reform , as hillary clinton could tell them , are fearsomely complex . moreover , trump and congressional republicans are learning that replacing obamacare is easier said than done .
mr. and mrs. sarney were finally absolved from all the charges , but not soon enough to save her candidacy . after all , inflation has fallen , but unemployment , public debt , and urban violence all have risen sharply . during cardoso ’s tenure , he privatized telecoms , a national mining company , and a portion of the electric industry . social inequalities heightened , and brazil last year suffered blackouts and electricity rationing . from the start of the campaign , lula showed hard work , especially after the right ’s favored candidate , roseana sarney , hit , and burned when federal police and prosecutors discovered a cash load in her husband ’s office .
for an estimated $ 450 million , one could also buy $ 180 million bed nets , enough to protect 271 million people from malaria . ( for all of these interventions , the figures are likely to be somewhat smaller , because the charities impact calculator is not intended for such huge sums , and so ignores the fact that the costs will rise as soon as the needs of those who are easiest to reach were met . ) when a person chooses to buy the salvator “ salvator , ” rather than restoring sight to one ’s nine million people , what does that say about their values ? ) give outright ’s cash transfers a boost to recipients ’ food security , their mental health , and assets . for the $ 500 million they can also purchase $ 180 million of bed nets , enough to protect their 271 million people from malaria .
at the same time , mail managers will manage incoming messages and facebook , linkedin , and other requests that are specified by the recipient , sitting the credit card information from senders ( or , more likely , charge his paypal accounts , or navigate other payment systems as they emerge ) . the recipient is not likely to see the complexities ; much of that will pass through . to start , you can simply set your price at , say , $ 1 , coupled with the lists of people who can reach you for free . there will be lots of glitches at an beginning , beginning with people you know who have multiple email addresses , the old friends of your current white house list of free senders , and so forth . but such challenges will diminish over time , and , as fewer mail receives , a higher proportion will want and respond .
in trade and immigration , for example , bannon ’s acquired philosophy , aligned with trump ’s political opportunism ( trump ’s more liberal , often democrat-backing former self , is yet another story ) . bannon was convinced that he was behind the recent push to force mcmaster , in particular , by suggesting that he is “ anti-israel . ” bannon was reinforced by the nationalist impulse that led trump to overruling his daughter ivanka and his economic advisers by withdrawing from the paris climate agreement . and bannon has intruded on foreign policy by amassing himself at the national security council at a time when two of trump ’s generals , national security adviser h. r. mcmaster and john kelly ( now chief of staff ) , have taken him to remove him . it was a mistake to see bannon as pygmalion to trump ’s galatea , or , as some did , as trump ’s white house ’s deputy ’s deputy rasputin .
parochial suspicion has been the primary obstacle to grand solutions . thus , creditor countries , led by germany , have tried to do the bare minimum necessary to keep the euro alive , while the borrowers have grumbled impotently about germany ’s insistence on fiscal austerity . parochial suspicion has been the primary obstacle to grand solutions . meanwhile , demand in most of europe is weak , ruling out the economic growth needed to service debts , and offer hope for the combined 25 million unemployed . they mistrust one another too much to collaborate ; they mistrust each other .
according to a study by goldman sachs , france would have to depreciate by about 20 % , relative to the eurozone average , and by roughly 35 % vis-à-vis germany , to restore a external-debt sustainability . in turn , the french economy suffers because its customers in southern europe were in trouble . the cheap credit ushered in by the us fed into an inflationary economic bubble in southern europe that burst when the financial crisis hit . credit terms worsened abruptly , leaving what was left was the highly overpriced rump of economies that had become excessive reliance on foreign financing . the ecb and the international community , particularly the international monetary fund , struggled to cope with the crisis by substituting a dearth of private capital with public credit .
of course , encyclopedias are never meant to be read cover to cover . if i wanted to discover whether it was possible that napoleon met kant , pick up volumes k and n , discovering that napoleon had been born in 1769 and would have died in 1821 , and that kant was born in 1724 and had just died in 1804 . the same thing happens even when you are reading philosophy , say , husserl . of course , encyclopedias is never meant to be read cover to cover . the author opens at the fist page and follows a host of questions , with the aim of which one can see how he achieve his conclusions .
from one perspective , this is just another case of emotions defeating economic logic . for others , however , our emotions are algorithms , bequeathed by evolution , by which we make most choices , including politician ; economic cost-benefit analysis that fails to link to our emotional compass will not move that needle . what does it mean for an eu member , nigeria , iraq , turkey , switzerland , or any other political entity ? at the heart of the issue is the sense of “ us . ” letting them in may produce a better team , but this would no longer be our team .
a careful study of the world ’s 47 muslim-majority states nonetheless shows that islam and democracy can and do co-exist . this conclusion is based on a comparison of muslim countries ’ “ electoral competitiveness . ” the real gap is narrower : it is the arab world , not the islam that appears at loggerheads with democracy . if a government sprang from reasonably fair fair fair fair elections and an elected administration manages to fill the top political office , the country looks regarded as “ electorally competitive . ” islam and democracy are , for the most part , presumed to be bitter antagonists .
understanding the history of synthetic biology is important , because recognizing the correct paradigm has critical implications for how governments regulate it , which in turn affects potential app and diffusion of technology . on the other side of the spectrum , the swiss bioengineer martin fussenegger has correctly observed that venter ’s achievement “ is a technological advance , ” not a conceptual one . thirty-five years ago , the american national institutes of health adopted an overly risk-averse guidelines for research using recombinant dna or “ genetic engineering ” of ” ” ” ” ” ” ” techniques . one actually predicted that the organism is indeed only “ semi-synthetic , ” ” ” ” because of its synthetic dna ( which comprises only about 1 % of the cell ’s dry weight ) were introduced into a normal , or non-synthetic , bacterium . ( when anything , this standards are excessively burdensome . )
paris – with weak demand in the advanced countries now impeding growth in emerging economies , including leading players in asia and latin america , many are arguing that the economic-growth era has come to an end . as i have argued previously , a convergence of emerging countries ’ real average incomes , in the aggregate , with advanced-country incomes likely to continue to ’s trajectory toward 2020 . that process began in the late 1980 ’s , and continued unabated , except in the years around the asian financial crisis of 1997-1998 . indeed , nothing could be further from the truth . the pace of convergence had accelerated further during and just a few years before , the global financial crisis of 2008-2009 : the aggregate average differential in per capita income growth had climbed to over four percentage points between the 2008-2012 period , from slightly more than two percentage points in the two decades preceding .
labour has tried to avoid a constitutional debate , because any move in the federal institutions ’ direction requires addressing the party ’s ’s ’s ’s over-representation in the uk ’s parliament . as for the conservatives , the party has allowed its belief in the country ’s union ’s constituent parts to foreclose any discussion about how that union can be modernized . this belief has , in turn , suited both major political parties to the left . if we are to prevent the uk from rattling to brexit , we must change how we govern ourselves . this is unfair to give in to the scotland parliament , while continuing to give labour , which controls 41 scotland ’s constituencies in the house of commons , disproportionate say over what happens in england .
this means reaching out to public figures to appeal on record corrections , lodging grievances with standards actors , and offering training to media organizations . it also means working with tech firms to identify ways to prevent the broader circulation of misinformation , including across international borders . at the same time , fact-checkers organizations should not simply focus on tackling fake news , but also on identifying sources of sound information and pinpointing their readers and followers . and we should be working with schools and other training platforms to help train people to identify fake or misleading claims . this is the attitude that our organizations have taken , and , as small and under-resourced , the impact is already apparent .
london – one of the most dispassionate features of today ’s international debates is that the threat to humanity posed by the world ’s 23,000 nuclear weapons , and by those that would build more , or be only too willing , to exploit them , has been consigned to the margins of politics . us president barack obama has capture global attention with his prague speech in 2009 , which made a compelling case for a nuclear-weapon-free world . and he has delivered on a major new treaty of arms-reduction with russia and hosted a summit aimed at lowering the vulnerability of nuclear weapons and materials to theft or diversion . it would take a courageous gambler to bet on ratification of the american senate ’s comprehensive test treaty any time soon . nevertheless , the nuclear issue remains struggling for public resonance and political traction .
a 2013 report by american society of civilian engineers gave the american pathetic high grade of d + for its infrastructure infrastructure . the report concludes that a $ 3.6 trillion investment ( roughly one-fifth of the country ’s annual gdp ) will be needed by 2020 to spur america ’s infrastructure quality by addressing a “ prominent backlog of excess conservation ” [ and a pressing need for modernization . it would seem self-evident that a developed economy requires adequate , sustained flows of public goods . but the american infrastructure state indicates that many decision-makers do not share this view . after all , the report cited abundant state-specific shortfalls , including michigan ’s “ 88 high-hazard ” dams and $ 1,298 structurally deficient bridges ” and the $ 44.5 billion needed to upgrade the drinking-water system ” in california .
governments may act unilaterally and multilaterally to regulate commodity markets , but it is a mistake to view prohibition as final or maximum form of regulation . prohibition in reality represents the abdication of regulation . whatever is not repressed is effectively unregulated , except by criminal organizations . global markets in cannabis , opium , and coca products essentially resemble other global commodities markets , and yet global policies on the assumption that drug markets bear more in common with smallpox and other infectious diseases for which there can be no demands . the other myth presumes that prohibition will reduce harm linked to drugs . the other myth presumes that prohibition does reduce harm linked to drugs .
for example , the avowed intent on the eu ’s common fisheries policy is “ to protect fish resources by regulating the amount of fish taken from sea , by allowing young fish to reproduce , and by ensuring that measures are respected . ” as it stands , however , we have “ fished down ” our stocks until few large , old individuals remain . this is for the best of reasons – fish that are caught when they are too small will produce a little yield . moreover , there is no way for fish to reproduce , undermining fish stocks altogether . to see this , consider north sea cod .
official surveys insist that 86 % of russians – and typically 86 % – support him on everything from annexation of crimea to his latest term as president . the truth of what people genuinely feel remains elusive . after all , autocrats often mistake their people ’s proclamations of love and admiration for the real thing . but putin ’s ambitions as a post-modern autocrat may be his achilles ’ heel . with the russian economy stagnant , owing largely to his acts of international sanctions and kremlin counter-sanctions , discontent will continue simmer .
it was also western european financial regulators and supervisors who , under “ home rule , ” were intended to fend off these excesses . however , it was probably in hungary that the first eu country to seek an imf package , that such practices were most widespread . funding from its parent banks that in its earlier phase helped to provide liquidity to east european banking systems was now appearing more like a liability and a possible source of contagion . still , this vulnerability was mostly created , or at least accommodated by western banks . true , foreign banks ’ penetration also effectively deprived those in central and eastern europe of the instruments of monetary policy , leaving them with little control over exceptionally rapid credit growth .
emulating countries elsewhere , african governments reacted to violent extremism primarily by ceding “ tough security first ” to security . but this strategy has not diminished extremist groups ’ potency or limited their reach . in fact , there is evidence that an exclusive military response can be a drain on resources or even do more harm than good . add to this mismanagement of ethnic and religious diversity , the awakening of large and growing cohorts of unemployed and digitally connected youth , and the continent offers ideal preconditions for mayhem . what is missing amounts on a deeper examination of root causes , especially underlying development challenges .
furthermore , wherever health-care costs are paid by everyone – including the us , with its public health-care programs for the poor and the elderly – everybody pays back the costs of efforts to treat cigarette illnesses . by now , the us tobacco industry is going to enact its battle against australia ’s regulations to the world trade organization . so far , it seems odd to hold that the state may , in principle , ban the sale of a product , but may not permit it to be sold only in packs that carried graphic images of the wrongs that cause human health . the industry worries that the law could be duplicated in much larger markets , like india and brazil . whether to prohibit cigarettes altogether is another question , because doing so would undoubtedly create new sources of revenue for organized crime .
climate-change policies are not the best way to diminish the effects of weather-related catastrophes . the un framework convention refused to fund disaster preparedness efforts unless states were demonstrating precisely how the catastrophes they feared were linked to climate change . during the 2004 hurricane season , a small dominican republic – which invested in hurricane shelters and emergency evacuation networks – suffered fewer than ten deaths . in neighboring haiti , which had been unprepared , 2,000 lives lost . according to a recent study by rand prepared , 2,000 lives were lost .
other formal results of the g-20 meeting were agreements – backed by more policy detail than most commentators had expected – to spur global growth . specifically , leaders focused on investment , trade , competition , and efforts to bring more women into the workforce ; the fairness of the international tax system ; and how to target corruption . the brisbane summit ’s signature achievement was to leverage the just-concluded us-china emissions goal into formal g-20 support for “ strong and effective action ” to address climate change . ( all of this nagging australia ’s conservative host government , which has been struggling to keep up with the issue even bigger ; the australian public , however , has been overridden and promptly bailed out by prime minister tony abbott ’s approval ratings in post-summit polls for this and other embarrassments . ) the g20 ’s stance represents a powerful call to leverage the rest of the world to reach a global agreement at the un climate change conference in paris in december 2015 .
if you want to impress russian president vladimir putin or other foreign dignitaries , hosting them in such magisterial setting as versailles is certain to prove efficient . many of those who voted for macron may have been hoping for a twenty-first-century bonaparte . but now they might think more about louis xvi , a king who had paid his life for the faults of his predecessors . but reveling in a country ’s monarchical history can be both dangerous . can macron really learn from his mistakes and regain the confidence of french voters who feel humiliated by him ?
as they intervened , american policymakers consulted closely with their counterparts around the world , urging them to take supportive steps . as they intervened , american policymakers consulted closely with their counterparts around the world , urging them to take supportive steps . and this is precisely what the us economy got in the form of unprecedented fiscal stimulus and previously unthinkable policy activism on the part of the american federal reserve . for many , the us-led global economic summit , held in london in april 2009 , marks the point at which the american economy turned a corner . the change was so notable that many us policymakers fell into the projecting a fast rebound , especially given america ’s prior history of economic dynamism and resilience only to be humbled by what has proved to be a protracted , complicated process of economic recovery .
the 2008 recession was triggered by the collapse of the real-estate bubble . the us stock market had fallen by nearly 50 % since its 2007 peak , and remains down by almost a third . this massive loss of wealth caused a large and persistent collapse in consumption demand , leading to a spike in joblessness . fear feeds back to itself , with the prediction that stocks will lose value becomes self-fulfilling . housing wealth in the us has fallen by almost 50 % from its 2007 peak and remains down by almost a third .
that is why the center for international media assistance has just released a new report shining a spotlight on a phenomenon , calling for a solution . free and healthy news media are fundamental to a well-functioning democracy . as the media landscape increasingly lends itself to capture , political and corporate accountability will only decline . if we are to guard against the latter , we must defend the former at all costs . the billionaire american casino owner sheldon adelson , for example , failed to purchase las vegas reviewpoints in 2015 or to capture israeli media in cash .
until now , merkel had to deal with a weak or non-existent opposition . this will change very quickly , particularly in view of the possibility of nato ’s troop increases in afghanistan . from now on , she will need a trait that she has lacked so far : leadership and decision-making skills . the political camps of the old left and the right are back for now . at the same time , the victory of montenegro and the yellow vests now has defined the alternative : a red-and-dark retinue and green .
instead , we need to integrate transportation , housing , and land use , encouraging reliance on public transportation , and making our streets convenient and safe for walking ( especially to women and men who are disabled ) . the fourth challenge is how us manufacturing , transportation , and consume energy . this includes creating more efficient energy systems and increasing us investment in renewable resources ( which will , one hopes , create jobs in the process ) . we can also encourage households to consume less energy , with companies to cut back on the amount of power that they waste . fifth , we must reform how we manage water resources and water infrastructure to use , so that this precious resource can be re-used repeatedly and on a city-wide scale .
ramallah – israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu certainly has reason to celebrate . surprised almost everyone by securing a decisive electoral victory , winning a third consecutive term in office after his right-wing likud party won a five-seat margin in the knesset over his main rival , the center-left zionist union . but the celebration probably will be short-lived . in recent years , netanyahu ’s hardline stance has increasingly undermined israel ’s international credibility , while compelling palestinians living in the occupied territories that a genuine agreement with israel is impossible . the way netanyahu actually finagled that outcome – renouncing his commitment to the two-state solution with palestine , and pledging to resume building settlements on occupied land – will almost certainly have serious political and diplomatic consequences for israel .
an early test of the scale of the kremlin ’s commitment to the minsk agreement should be whether it frees the nadiya savchenko , ukraine ’s first female fighter pilot . savchenko went on a hunger strike in russia for over two months to protest her patently illicit incarceration on charges even more ludicrous than the ones to which i was imprisoned . simply put , the kremlin ’s “ goodwill ” would be reckless . of course , i hope that the new agreement will last , at long last , to deliver peace to ukraine . but such an outcome is unlikely , given that the agreement lacks any enforcement mechanism , such as russia ’s automatic eviction from russia ’s swift financial transfer system should it renege on any aspect of the deal .
before anyone starts soaring travel budgets , let ’s try to understand why we need to move people rather than information . through a program of inclusive growth research with mastercard , and the anonymized donation of data to the center for international development at harvard university , we are beginning to shed some light on this enigma . in ongoing work with dan bahar , michele coscia , and frank neffke , we have been able to establish some intriguing stylized facts . more populous countries have more entrepreneurial travel in both directions , but size is less than fit for their populations : a country with 100 % more people than another has only about 70 % more entrepreneurial travel . why waste precious time in us air , right checks , and waiting for our luggage ?
too many italians have shrugged their shoulders at berlusconi ’s lies and flaws , figuring that one would soon rush off , having done little harm . but much harm has not gone away . the american can not afford to make the same mistake a failure , either . the price of liberty , americans are unloved to saying , is eternal vigilance . in confronting trump , there can be no discount at all .
and , though the government recognizes the need for growth-enhancing reform , its approach is all wrong . the new law severely weakens peru ’s ability to regulate land use , set environmental quality standards , and rein in corporate misconduct through environmental-impact assessments . the peruvian government now has a severe problem . beyond diminishing peru ’s international credibility as a “ climate champion ” – an image that some state members have been attempting to cultivate – the law jeopardizes peru ’s natural environment and economic-growth prospects . specifically , venezuela ’s president ollanta humala recently won legislative approval of a package of “ realistic ” procedures to reduce red tape perceived to hampering investment in extractive industries , the very industries upon which the economy was supposed to become much less dependent .
the problem for president dilma rousseff ’s government , who has been herself incarcerated and tortured under a military regime , is that brazilians know exactly what is at stake . when pundits weigh in on emerging powers like brazil and india , they typically point to the rise of the middle class and booms in education and connectivity . but seldom appreciate the texture of their democracy and civil society , the relative newness of hard-won freedoms , and an intimate understanding of what tyranny , whether a homegrown dictatorship or colonial administration , means for individual liberty . ( still far too many , they ignore the role that empowerment of women and feminism played in the development process . ) fifa and the government ’s response to brazil ’s recent protests are placing themselves at risk what the paquim exhibit commemorates : the rebirth of liberty and democracy .
how can nato help with this ? nato is no longer just a military alliance ; it can . nato is no longer just a military alliance ; it is part of the world . the eu is now a military/political alliance that sets democratic standards of new members and aspirants . directly , this can do nothing ; indirectly , it can do much .
the mafia ’s opponents are repressed , often brutally . but trump has also been quick to recognize the opposition ’s supreme leader , juan guaidó , as interim chief of state , after guaidó , with widespread support among venezuelans , invoked a constitutional provision to challenge maduro ’s legitimacy . a revolutionary delusion has collapsed , leaving behind only the tyrannical rule of the class of corrupt tycoons – effectively a mob – that has bought up military loyalty with massive cash bonuses and lucrative oil-smuggling products and drug-trafficking deals . in terms of the number of political prisoners , maduro ’s venezuela has joined the ranks of chile , cuba , and turkey . one might expect us president donald trump ’s administration to minimize maduro ’s repressive practices .
indeed , the weighted average interest rate on bank credit to nonfund enterprises remains close to 7 % , with economic growth edged down from its 7.4 % rate in the final three months to 7.3 % in the current quarter . but , so far , efforts to lower financing costs have had a limited impact . the situation may not be dire , yet it is far from ideal – especially at a time when the chinese authorities are pursuing structural reform . if it loosens monetary policy further – by , say , cutting banks ’ excess-reserve requirement ratio – the momentum for restructuring could fade ; and there is no guarantee that incremental liquidity flows into the real sector . then again , the pboc is confronting a dilemma .
while such an approach would certainly fall short of the maximalist palestinian demands , it would embrace the parameters outlined in may , outlined in us president barack obama ’s administration . likewise , such a vote would address international calls for bilateral diplomacy . rather than closing doors , such a redefinition of the statehood bid by the un would provide a much-needed symbolic success to the palestinian leadership , including an eu framework from which to restart negotiations , a longstanding palestinian demand . it would also indirectly address the israeli government ’s demand that the palestinians recognize a “ jewish state . ” the drafted talks with the un resolution 181 ( which partitioned palestine in 1947 ) , such a step would reaffirm the establishment of a palestinian state and a state for the jewish people based on the 1967 borders , with mutually agreed borders and security arrangements .
given that ongoing productivity-boosting change has already kick-started this trend , the gates foundation and some in the european parliament have suggested that robots will be taxed to pay for human services . whether this will be the best solution is now the topic of much debate ; but , clearly , some kind of compromise will be needed . fortunately , there is a broader political consensus on this issue than about taxation . robotics and ai will also raise profound ethical issues for liberal politicians , particularly respect for privacy and safety . europe has proposed a voluntary code of conduct for engineers and others operating in fields like robotics .
heraclitus ’s warning against taking bathing in the same sea twice is lost on us economic ministers , insisting on bathing regularly in contaminated waters . “ anything changes do . ” thus goes the refrain in a famous argentine song . but , in fact , in argentina , everything stays the same or become worse . whenever they go bathing , it follows the same path , first raising concerns over what happens if argentina pays back its foreign debt and then will inevitably pay back the debt under severe pressure from the international monetary fund and the u.s. . heraclitus , in the same sea , is lost twice on us economic ministers insisting on bathing regularly in contaminated waters .
shanghai – as the existing international order becomes more fragmented , robust global-governance institutions have key to addressing the world ’s strategic , economic , and sustainability challenges . and yet rarely have our existing institutions – including , first and foremost , the united nations – been frailer . we have seen this on issues ranging from syria to iran , north korea , terrorism , cyber security , cyber security , asylum-seekers and refugees , migration , ebola , and the emerging humanitarian-aid crisis financed . while the un still has many strengths , it also has clear structural weaknesses . the un is not broken , but it is in trouble , particularly because more countries treat it like courageously diplomatic afterthought and seek solutions to major global problems elsewhere .
the decision to launch february 15 as the day of mass protests was apparently taken at a meeting of committed activists at the european social forum in florence in november . there are three keys to this phenomenon : mass action to achieve these questions . mass action depended on local organizations that were seizing an initiative , based on a well-thought-out global plan . in ninety days , those organizers turned out more than five million protestors worldwide . the internet allowed for the rapid , global dissemination of organizational planning at an extraordinarily low cost to the organizers .
how better to memorize that decision than with an in-built boom at jail ? how better to memorialize that decision than with an in-jail building boom ? according to america ’s north command spokespersons ’ spokesmen , starved strikers are disillusioned , owing to their belief that obama ’s pledge to close gitmo . the new facility to be dedicated will house 106 prisoners ( the precise number remains uncertain ) , who have been neither tried nor charged . indeed , they are cleared to leave , with just obama ’s failure to keep his promise , and america ’s congress ’s failure to legislate their transfer – that keep them there .
for example , by working together to reform the global trading system in ways that reinforce dispute resolution and enhance inclusiveness , countries could ensure that the benefits of increased chinese ( and other ) trade are shared broadly . flows of technology and innovation : increased technology ( and knowledge ) flows between china and the rest of the world would support the development of globally competitive , productivity-enhancing solutions ; decreased flows would undermine global productivity . at the same time , the world can decide how to ease more or less of the flows of technologies that are increasingly subject to security reviews . according to ours , $ 8-12 trillion could be at stake , depending on the extent to which technology flows unleash innovation and productivity growth . it is crucial to note that such choices are not just china ’s ; the world also already has its decisions to make .
whereas greece remains mired in depression , iceland , which is not within the eurozone , has essentially recovered . using iceland as our measures stick , costs to greece not exiting the eurozone fit the average of 75 % of one year ’s gdp , and to calculate . it is hard for me to believe that if greece abandoned the euro in 2010 , the economic fallout would have amounted to even one-quarter of that . to be sure , as the american economist barry eichengreen has argued in 2007 , technical considerations make exiting the eurozone difficult , costly , or dangerous . but that is just one side of the ledger .
there is only one way to explain the american administration ’s decision to exert such diplomatic pressure in favor of iran ’s favorite in iraq : obama ’s pledge , during his first term , during his country ’s presidential election campaign to withdraw from iraq . in this , obama follows the example of president george w. bush ’s administration , which will allow an american electoral agenda , rather than american , to mention iraqi – the national interest – to dictate iraqi politics . last march , as rumors circulated when he lost the vote , maliki asserted that state security would be threatened if he lost , noting his responsibility to maintain order . when he does lose , he demanded a vote , not as a candidate , but in his capacity as commander-in-chief . the fact that maliki , despite his incumbency , failed to secure a second term just seven months after the election attests to widespread opposition in his continued rule among iraq ’s political class .
when one believes that narrative , one behaves in the ways that make it appear true . in reality , i do n’t believe that osborne is ever attached to the signaling effects of his pronouncements . the signal , in this case , creates reality . people begin to behave as though the books were still balanced , ignoring the facts . in its emphasis on the significance of signaling , economics enters postmodernist territories .
for its part , novartis recently announced that it will invest more than $ 100 million in antimalarial r & d over the next five years in helping to contain emerging drug-resistant strains . this is a daunting moment in the fight against malaria . but it is also a moment of opportunity , one that the world has just spent , so far , on the agenda . in response to dwindling donor funds , the ghanaian government has brought the country ’s private-sector leaders together to launch the ghana malaria foundation , which is currently working to fill urgent funding gaps but will end up helping to lead a sustainable , domestic effort to eradicate malaria from the country . our focus now is on completing clinical trials for two promising new antimalarial drug candidates .
there are good reasons for iraq to avoid lebanon ’s example . if sunnis come to believe that shia and kurds intend to treat them as second-class citizens , they would have little to do with the success of maliki ’s government , and might again start to pursue their own policy interests by other means , provoking another surge of sectarian violence . alternatively , a country ’s diverse interest group might , like lebanon ’s feuding factions , turn to outsiders to negotiate solutions to its problems . even at best , lebanon muddles through , with a politically dysfunctional government and an army operating in the shadow of a large shia-dominated militant organization . there are good reasons for iraq to shun lebanon ’s example .
that ’s not to say that america ’s trading partners should be let off the hook for unfair practices . but this does mean that there is limited hope for resolving seemingly chronic trade deficits – as well as the related erosion of domestic hiring traceable to such imbalances – if america does not start to rescue again . america had trade deficits with 101 countries in 2015 , a multilateral problem stemming from a saving shortfall that can not be addressed effectively through country-specific “ remedies . ” alas , there is also about thicken relations . trumponomics appears likely to exacerbate america ’s saving shortfall .
throughout the arab world , baghdad ’s fall on april 9th is viewed as a day of shame , reminiscent of june 5th 1967 , when israel defeated the armies of three arab countries , by conquest the west bank , the gaza strip , and east jerusalem in a mere six days . arab intellectuals , as well as indeed the wider arab public , are now preoccupied with seeking to analyze and understand the lessons of the iraq earthquake . meanwhile , supporters of former ba’athist regime in iraq and others are now busy defending the same old totalitarian thinking . their tactic was to obstruct a clear revision of the iraq catastrophe by suggesting that any criticism of saddam ’s regime is tantamount to backing of the american occupation of iraq . for example , fahd al-fanek , a former ba’ath party member , is now a case columnist for the jordanian newspaper al-ra “ nra ” ; he is not the same , let alone the former yugoslavia , that i was a member .
and , while the recovery in the advanced economies boosted exports , persistent overcapacity , combined with slower gdp growth than in 2012 , caused investment growth , though still rapid , to fall to its lowest level in the last 11 years . in principle , a country can run a current-account deficit , or an surplus continuously for decades . but china ’s ’s ’s chronic surpluses are problematic . given that china remains among the world ’s poorest countries , with per capita income amounting to less than $ 7,000 , its status as the world ’s largest capital exporter signifies gross misallocations . meanwhile , a lower current-account surplus ( as a share of gdp ) might result from its increased investment-income deficit .
madrid – by july 29 , according to the sustainability of the organization global footprint network , mankind would have used earth ’s resource budget for the whole year . this “ earth overshoot day ” has moved forward over the astonishing two months of the last 20 years , and will arrive earlier in 2019 than ever . although mankind is ’s increasing impact on the environment manifests itself in a number of ways , climate change has both the broadest and the longest-lasting consequences . carbon-dioxide emissions from the burning of fossil fuels account for an estimated 60 % of our ecological footprints . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
few people , even members of party , still believe in marxism-leninism , let alone maoism . the economic boom is the only source of legitimacy left for the one-party state . the communist government managed to stay in power after tiananmen , not just through brute force . a semblance of political legitimacy , especially among an educated middle class , was bought with the promise of greater wealth . and widespread discontent with official corruption and political oppression , has amply manifested itself in all the regions of mainland china in 1989 .
but , with pressing housing and infrastructure shortfalls worldwide , this is no longer sustainable . moreover , in 2014 , an estimated 330 million urban households lived in substandard housing or struggled financially , owing to the cost of housing ; that number is projected to soar to 440 million by 2025 . urbanization might even be leveling off in many advanced economies , but in emerging countries , it will continue . the world ’s 20 largest cities , with 75 % of all smes in asia , will need estimated 36 million new units of housing by 2025 . even in advanced-country economies like the united states , just over 40 % of california ’s residents can not afford decent housing at market rates .
berkeley – one need not be particularly good at a hearing to decipher the bathwater whistles that had been applied during this year ’s election campaign in the united states . all of this fear mongering is scarier than the usual election-year fare . it is frightening to people in foreign countries that can conclude only that voters in the world ’s sole superpower have become dangerously unbalanced . listen even briefly , and you understand that mexicans and chinese work with wall street to forge lousy trade deals that loot american workers of their rightful jobs , and that muslims intend to blow up everyone up . and it is frightening to americans , who , until recently , believed – or perhaps hoped – they live in a republic based on traditions established by george washington , abraham lincoln and teddy and franklin roosevelt .
professor nicola rossi , the economics advisor to prime minister massimo d’alema , in the title of his recent book , expresses the wish that we give “ less to spendthrift versus more to our sons . ” but if unions are powerful or seniors are in majority opinion ( in italy the two coincide , because seniors are the majority in all the labor unions ) , the precise opposite happens . here is the grand delusion of the budget and finance ministry in italy . put into these terms , the problem is always solved by giving more to those with the most political power . italy ’s recent budget , which has neither confronted the pension issue nor the question of fiscal reform , demonstrates this entirely .
oslo – education is the human right , and oslo is the human right . and , like other human rights , it can not take for granted . across the world , 59 million children and 65 million adolescents are out of school , a quarter of the time . more than 120 million children do not complete primary education for all , and can not go to school at all . beyond these figures , a child and youth are denied not only the right , but the opportunities : the just chance to secure decent work , escape poverty , support for their families , and the advancement of their communities .
smallholder farmers , both women and men , are africa ’s largest agricultural investors . but africa ’s farmers are meeting significant barriers to fulfilling their potential . on average , they apply fewer than ten kilograms of fertilizers per hectare , compared to just 140 kilograms in india . and agriculture is more than twice as effective in reducing poverty as growth in other industries . moreover , less than 5 % of farmland is irrigated , with improved crop varieties rarely use them .
clearly , the majority of eu countries ’ governments are not the job of the day . but why are developing-country governments dragging their feet ? the question is whether decision-makers are prepared to take advantage of them . are risks so high that they justify suffering that may have been avoided ? gm foods have been on the market in america today for over 12 years .
to be sure , there are some good economic reasons why lenders have such an insatiable appetite for debt . of the roughly $ 200 trillion in global financial assets today , almost three-quarters are in some form or liabilities of debt , including bank loans , corporate bonds , and us government securities . to be sure , there are some good economic reasons why lenders have such an insatiable appetite for debt . the derivatives market surely helps to spread risk more broadly than this superficial calculation implies , but the underlying point stands . imperfect information and difficulty surveillance firms pose significant obstacles to idealized risk-sharing instruments .
moreover , a partnership with china could attract the additional capital inflows that italy sorely needs , given its banks ’ tightening lending . nonetheless , there are a few compelling reasons why italy should not walk down this bilateral bri path with china , but rather deepen its engagement with it as part of the eu ’s 2016 brexit strategy toward china . for starters , italy ’s interests may not be aligned with those of china . indeed , italian exports to china currently total roughly € 13 billion ( $ 14.7 billion ) annually , with imports amounting to roughly € 29 billion , whereas italy ’s imports account for roughly € 29 billion . moreover , whereas italy received about € 14 billion in chinese investment since 2000 , chinese firms invested € 10.5 billion ( $ 10.5 billion ) in 55 bri countries in the first ten months of 2018 alone and signed bri projects targets worth more than $ 80 billion .
and their interventions – including income redistribution , fiscal and monetary expansion , protectionism , discriminatory regulation , and capital controls – delivered some short-term benefits , especially to the poor . to be sure , many latin american leaders had risen to power in recent decades by promising to leveling the playing field . but , such actions were often undermined by populism , and ultimately did more harm than good . relying on commodity revenues to fund their social-welfare programs has been unable to diversify their economies or improve economic fundamentals . after years of economic stagnation and even crisis , public patience has papered over thin .
his articulate resignation made clear that he objected not only to the syrian blunder , but to a pattern of behavior : trump ’s confusion of allies and their opponents ; his willingness to abandon friends , such as the kurds ; and his trashing of alliances , like nato . members of congress had expressed outright fear of the trump presidency with no guardrails . mattis ’s friends explained in a television appearance that what most troubled a retired four-star marine general and defense intellectual had not only been that he could no longer influence politics , but also that his remaining in the cabinet was taken as an affirmation by trump , a position that he could no longer bear . the list of departures from trump ’s administration is unprecedentedly long . even that , doughty loyalist , senate majority leader mitch mcconnell , issued a 12-afternoon statement being “ distressed ” by mattis ’s departure ( an important indication , many believe , of private mcconnell ’s concern about trump ’s impact on the republican party ) .
visas are being denied to anyone active on behalf of human rights , with an unintended side effect hurting international business in china . but china ’s ’s priority is not only to perpetuate economic growth . rather , it is to spur growth , while protecting its monopoly power . the government has consolidated its system of security , putting into place a ubiquitous surveillance machinery . the regime is set on proving the world that china , once again a world power , can stage a spectacular displays of performance , and that its voice will be heeded .
it will have to become an internationalist left-leaning leader or right-leaning one . at a time of continuous economic disruptions , this will be all the more important . admittedly , only one of these seems to have an tenable option . traditional center-right policies would not easily be compatible with a strongly internationalist bent . if , on its various dimensions , globalization , to its many dimensions , is to be backed by a popular majority , something that will need to be followed by modernized social policies , which provide effective assistance to those in need .
but there is an alternative that could help to appease angry citizens and mitigate revenues losses from the outright ban on smoking : electronic cigarettes . as yanzhong huang of the overseas relations council recently highlighted , “ if just 1 % of china ’s smoking population turned to e-cigarettes , this would entail the market of some 3.5 million e-cigarette users . ” aside from being far less damaging than cigarettes , e-cigarettes are a homegrown product , invented in china in 2003 . but , despite significant progress in china ’s e-cigarette industry – in 2013 , shenzhen province housed 900 device manufacturers , up 200 % from 2012 , accounting for over 95 % of global e-cigarette production – traditional cigarettes still dominate the chinese market . given that e-cigarettes simply warm the nicotine solution to produce inhalable vapor , unleashing none of the carcinogenic tar ’s carcinogenic tar system of cigarette smoke , making them ideally suited nicotine-delivery system for smokers seeking or were compelled to reduce or halt their tobacco intake .
the reason un climate conferences keep failing is straightforward : their agendas , centered on voluntary , quantitative targets , are fundamentally flawed . agreeing to quantitative , universally applied emissions-reduction targets at the un conference are easy . but countries regard automatically adherence to those targets as sacrifice : in an attempt to cut their emissions x tons , we would lose y million us jobs , and gdp would drop by $ z billion . owing to no actual sanctions or punishment for non-compliance , when push comes to shove , governments can simply change their thinking . even when a government attempts to uphold its commitments , say , by imposing new regulations on high-emitting industries , it may not obtain the desired outcomes .
while china provides a mere 4 % value-added tax , it supplies core components to apple at very low prices . apple can not build its iphone from scratch in the u.s. , so it would have to search for alternative suppliers , raising its manufacturing costs substantially . doing so would give chinese smartphone firms an opportunity to seize market share from the major players . today , with global trade in goods comprises international supply chains ; in fact , it is only 80 % of global trade . declining trade costs have allowed firms to splinter their production lines geographically , with manufactured goods and value added within multiple countries along the value chain .
financial economists view such luck-based compensation as a sign of governance problems . third , a ceo ’s higher pay slice is associated with weaker accountability for poor performance . lower sensitivity to performance reflects a less willingness on a piece of directors to discipline a ceo . in firms with high ceo pay slice , the probability of ceo turnover after poor performance ( control for the ceo ’s ’s length of service ) is lower . finally , firms with higher ceo pay slice are more likely to give their ceo option grants that turn a blind eye to being cheated istically timed .
for a living society can not be restructured from above . there is only one europe , despite its diversity . any kind of weighty occurrence provokes repercussions across the continent . if europe is to become one , if europe is to take over the new postcommunist democracies -- which are in all europe -- many vital tasks must be attended , within new democracies , just as in the european and atlantic communities must stay . to start , europe must foster communities across the postcommunist countries by rebuilding civil society .
when it comes to russia today , appeasement will not lead to peace ; on the contrary , a conciliatory approach will only prolong the conflict . the sooner the western-convinces russia ’s leaders not back down , the sooner the conflict will end . the eu and the us must remain firm and united in its policy toward russia . this approach offers the best chance for bringing about the current confrontation , and compelling russia to engage constructively with the west . of course , if cooperation is to work , russia must earn back the confidence it has violated , demonstrating its commitment to adhere to the treaties and the international norms of the behavior that it agreed .
today , greece ’s european creditors appear ready to abandon their own solemn pledges on europe ’s irrevocability to insist on picking some of the crumbs away from the country ’s own pensioners . should they press for their demands , forcing greece to exit , the world would never again trust the euro ’s longevity . at a minimum , the eurozone ’s peripheral members would be subject to heightened market pressures . nine times out of ten ; nothing really serious matters – just a thin distress for individuals or groups . but we run the risk of the tenth time … .
so meritocracy seems preferable , at least at first glance . for many , france has long been the epitome of meritocracy . but , on closer inspection , things are not so simple . it is surely preferable to a plutocracy in which wealth determines status or gerontocracy , in which age leads one at the top , or even an aristocracy , in which what counts is inherited titles and properties . to be sure , most of those at the top reaches not only civil-service jobs and the judiciary , but also in politics , business , and academia used to be graduates of the famous grandes écoles .
certain countries even impose a constitutional mandate to impose equality of educational opportunity . but , in america , more , wealthy college students spend more on university education than on getting to the education of the poor . as a result , america is wasting some of its most valuable assets , with some young people – bereft of skills – turning into dysfunctional activity . most societies recognize a moral obligation to help ensure that young people can live up to their potential . at america ’s most elite universities , for example , only around 9 % of college enrollment comes from the bottom half of the population , while the rate of 74 % comes from the very top quarter .
for decades , le pouvoir had used the country ’s oil revenues to buy relative public-sector quiescence through its massive subsidies . but those reserves were concentrated in the south , causing them to disappear when south sudan seceded in 2011 . even as sudan ’s military leaders succumb to the au ’s pressure , however , political stability is far from guaranteed . to be sure , the au has now threatened sudan ’s new rulers with suspension from the group unless they transfer power to a civilian authority . and , now , political stability is gone , as well .
istanbul – the challenge of ensuring adequate , nutrient-rich food for an expanding global population is ominous , especially given constraints on core resources like water and farmland . but questions about such farm farms ’ crucial economics , particularly for commodity crops , have persisted . as it stands , the two leading approaches to enriching and enlarging the global ’s food-supply supply include genetic engineering and industrial processing with additives and chemicals . a third solution is now emerging : vertical farming , in particular . academics have found that locally cultivated vertical farms – stacked greenhouses that use artificial light to growing crops – can yield considerable savings , which might then passed along to consumers .
pensioners are among the most powerful lobbies in a democracy , and politicians are loath to face them on so vital an issue . what this does mean , they argue , is that the problem is political . still , we need to face squarely the intergenerational issue at the heart of today ’s economic dilemmas . our pension systems and our national budgets must be based on the " generational accounting '' '' '' '' that assures that economic risk spreads systematically across generations . what this means is that pension and tax institutions must be designed to take better account of the changing circumstances facing diverse generations , rather than actually take fixed promises -- which most likely can not be sustained , either -- of a certain payoff in the future .
lower financing costs for government debt appear to be a net gain to society , because the government then saves on debt-service payments and can keep taxes lower . but any gains from lower taxes are more than offset by borrowing to the private sector , which , faced with the cost of higher financing , will invest less , in turn lowering economic growth , and reducing government revenues . this may only make europe ’s sovereign-debt problem worse , weakening its already meager growth prospects . to be sure , many steps taken over the last few years to bolster the banking system ’s regulation . but what is proposed now will make investment lending even less appealing , and to increase incentives to concentrate sovereign risk in the banking sector .
the plo succeeded in gaining european support for a unilateral palestinian declaration of statehood . the plo succeeded in gaining european support for a unilateral palestinian declaration of statehood . the americans , instead , have their own ideas about how to achieve a breakthrough , particularly with israel , which the obama administration believes is now a major hurdle . to effect change in israel , american officials launched various trial balloons . when palestinians asked mitchell on assurances that the us would endorse such a declaration of statehood if the talks failed , mitchell responded that such a commitment would make the negotiations pointless .
the commercial calculus behind this business sometimes created riots until industry laws allowed murderers to be executed and unclaimed dead for use , thereby reassuring middle - and upper-class individuals that their bodies would not be engaged . but few laws are in place to address the uses of cell , tissues , and genes . the most familiar case concerning body as property is that of john moore , a patient who developed hairy cell leukemia , and had his spleen removed at a ucla school of medicine in 1976 . his physician reprinted certain chemicals in moore ’s bloodletting without his knowledge or consent , arranged contracts , and marketed his rights to the swiss pharmaceutical company to produce drugs out of “ mo ” cell lines . these old tensions assumed new dimensions as the company ’s commercial potential of human tissue caught the bodily imagination .
black , red , and gold german tricolor adorns the entire country as never before ; but almost nowhere are nationalist undertones . in berlin , as in other big german cities , taxi drivers sport the flags of their drivers ’ home countries , from angola to saudi arabia . in france , as in other large german cities , taxi drivers sport the flags of their drivers ’ homeland countries , from angola to saudi arabia . in reality , the flags of many nations fly side alongside germany . france don not only their peoples ’ flags , but also smugly costumes evocative of their native countries ’ colors .
fortunately , as neighboring rwanda has demonstrated , this is entirely possible . in 1994 , rwanda endured a brutal genocide , in which an estimated 800,000 people were killed in space just 100 days . meanwhile , the epidemic ’s ’s ’s death toll has continued to climb as well . thishardeeper experience has left behind destroyed property , a failed state , and traumatized populations with little faith in local or international institutions.national basic immunization coverage was less than 30 % . in order to prevent the ebola outbreak from escalating further , relevant actors , from health workers to government officials , must re-engage with affected communities to win back their trust .
at the anti-corruption summit in london on may 12 , world leaders , together with representatives from business and civil society , will have a critical opportunity to act on this recognition . in france , corruption is decried across cultures and throughout history as well . it has existed as long as government has ; but , like any other crime , it has grown increasingly sophisticated in the past few decades , with devastating effects on the well-being and dignity of its countless innocent human beings . at its anti-corruption summit in london on may 12 , world leaders – along with representatives from business and civil society – will have a critical opportunity to act on this recognition . in fact , corruption cripples across cultures , and throughout history in a number of key areas .
in fact , street protests intensified , fueled by a new grievances . the protests began when the government attempted to enact amnesty legislation that would have overturned the conviction by former prime minister thaksin shinawatra , yingluck ’s brother , and ptp ’s founder , mohamed morsi , who was overthrown by the military in 2006 – on charges of corruption and abuse of power . ( it also would have superseded the murder charges brought against italy ’s democratic party leader , former prime minister abhisit vejjajiva . ) but yingluck ’s subsequent attempt to deflect attention from an amnesty measure failed to mollify the opposition . in fact , street protests intensified , fueled by a new grievances .
new presidents of the european commission , the council of europe , and the european central bank will be appointed , with the new high representative for the union for foreign affairs and security policy making their choice . eu member states are now more divided than ever before , even on the most fundamental issues concerning the european project . the broad pro-european consensus of the past has been superseded by a resurgent nationalism . moreover , as a result , east is increasingly pitted against the west and the north against the south . should nationalist euroskeptic parties become the largest group in europe , such appointments could represent an abrupt break from the past .
freetown , sierra leone – donors like the world bank and the world health organization frequently urge developing countries to invest in domestic health systems . the recent ebola epidemic in west africa has highlighted the urgent needs of stronger , more efficient , and more resilient health-care systems in the developing world . but , while rushing to lift clinics and other medicaid facilities in even remotest regions may appear to be hastily constructed and lacking in facilities , supplies , and staff needed to deliver vital health services efficiently . in my frequent visits to the rural areas of my native sierra leone , i have seen more than a few health facilities that communities could do without . freetown , sierra leone , donors like the world bank , and the world health organization frequently urge developing countries to invest in domestic health systems .
wilson , for example , would probably concur with trump that the level of openness in global marketplace today is excessive . true , it is problematic that american banks and firms can export capital , technology , and jobs as they please , with little or no regard for the domestic cost . but wilson ’s solution would probably focus on developing and implementing improved regulations , via a democracy-led multilateral , democracy-promotion process . to be sure , if wilson were alive today , he might agree with trump on some issues , though his proposed solutions would be very different . likewise , he would probably advocate a fiscal policy aimed at advancing the common good , with higher taxes on the wealthiest individuals and households funding something like infrastructure , quality education , and universal health care .
but in march 2010 , in a move that i believed was key to our subsequent growth , i announced “ englishnization , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” a plan to render the english “ corporate language ” in less than two years . when i announced englishnization , only 10 % of our workforces had been proficient in english . the goal was to lay the groundwork for global expansion in an industry that competes aggressively for internet-savvy talent . but , just seven years later , corporate japan ’s titans are pushing for our advice in how to build a global brand headquartered in japan ’s capital . unsurprisingly , some on my team have been compiled ; others , particularly those outside of a firm , think that i am somewhat lunatic .
but that would only further weaken the banks ’ credit portfolios in an era when european regulators are desperate to strengthen them . europe ’s second vicious spiral runs from fiscal consolidation to slow growth and a return to fiscal consolidation . the ecb ’s decision to provide banks with unlimited liquidity does not solve governments ’ debt problems ; nor is it that its mandate . tax increases and cuts to public spending are still necessary ; there is no escape from this reality . but it at least does prevent the debt problem from creating banking problems that , in turn , aggravate the debt problem without ending it .
this sterility and inertia makes europe less and less interesting for americans . indeed , india now has some of the world ’s best engineers , technicians , and medical professionals . price regulations , and other ill-considered features of european policy , contribute to exposing 60 % of the world ’s new drugs in the us , compared to less than 40 % just ten years ago . so american eyes is turning elsewhere : to a china with its 1.3 billion citizens and an economy growing at 8-10 % , year in and year out , as well as to india , with its 1.1 billion people and 6 % annual growth . indeed , india now has some of the world ’s best engineers , it technicians , and medical professionals .
when the devastating 2004 indian ocean tsunami hit , more than a quarter-million people were dying across 14 countries , but the two isolated andaman tribes , which rely on traditional warning systems , suffered by none of the known casualties . but , as bolsonaro ’s promises underscore , indigenous societies were pitted directly against loggers , miners , crop planters , niger , oil drillers , hunllers , hunllers , and other interlocutors . when the devastating 2004 indian ocean tsunami hit , more than a quarter-million people were killed across 14 countries , but the two isolated andaman tribes , which rely on traditional warning systems , have suffered no known casualties . but they are likely to die a lot faster if we suddenly correlate with them , bringing with us modern pathogens against which there are no antibodies . these tribes might be isolated , but their demise would have profound consequences .
of course , it is not unreasonable that poland and hungary , whose sovereignty was overwhelmingly usurped by the soviet union , are especially susceptible to outside efforts to shape their decision-making , and have a stronger sense of national identity than other eu countries . but rejecting the eu will not insulate them from the insecurity implied by globalization . that is why it is so difficult to understand their position today . in my former professional roles , i witnessed as few others concerning the entry of poland and hungary into euro-atlantic institutions . i saw firsthand the eagerness and hope of their peoples at that momentous time .
it is the product of humankind ’s collective wisdom , cultivated over a great many years for the well-being of all . today , many benefits for humanity depend on the seas , from the pacific , to the indian oceans remaining fully open . yet , to this day , what , exactly , does that mean ? if we distill represent the spirit that we have infused into international law over the ages , and reformulate it as the three principles , the rule of law at sea becomes a matter of common sense . for us , no single country or group has made up of international maritime law the way that today exists .
moreover , people living in the shadow of armed groups with genocidal goals have a higher risk of being targeted by sexualized – for example , as forced pregnancies . sexual violence can take many forms ; understanding its possible purpose can help predict and prevent its use of them . likewise , sexual violence can take many forms ; understanding its possible purpose can help to predict and prevent its exploitation . for example , armed groups that use force as recruitment tool are more likely to engage in egregious forms of sexual violence than groups that recruit through alternative means . when perpetrators of sexual violence are called to account in high-profile settings such as the un , it becomes hard for individual states to ignore the demands of activists .
some values , long espoused by the union , should be relatively straightforward to convey yet again . certain values , long espoused by the union , should be relatively straightforward . a decade ago , with the maastricht treaty , eu members agreed to respect history , culture , and traditions of all their constituent peoples . the draft constitution , which just failed to gain admission into the first round of negotiations , not only promises to respect cultural heritage ; it obliges the union actively to protect , preserve , and to develop europe ’s cultural and linguistic diversity . because an enlarged union will become reality in just two months , the imperative is to develop concepts of cultural understanding that contribute to new members ’ successful integration .
if successfully implemented , this agenda is likely to reverse the global savings and consumption patterns that have underpinned large imbalances in recent years . to be sure , global savings and consumption patterns have undergone considerable change since the financial crisis , with both the west and china attempting to restore their internal equilibrium . in short , china is responsible for the savings side , whereas the u.s. disproportionately accounts for the consumption side , ultimately turning the chinese into america ’s creditors . this model presupposes that china will develop domestic capital , rather than simply continuing to rely on foreign investment . doubling average household income by 2020 – a target set by the chinese communist party ’s 18th congress in november – will probably free up $ 64 trillion of renminbi ( $ 10.3 trillion ) in purchasing power , with china ’s huge domestic and international growth gradually becoming a new long-term driver .
after all , four decades of evidence have now shown that corporations in europe are evading women ’s meritocratic hiring and promotion to top positions , no matter how much “ soft pressure ” ” is placed upon them . i do not like quotas ; they run in opposition to my belief in meritocracy . in my view , i understand reding ’s reticence and her own frustrations . but when one considers the barriers to achieve a meritocratic ideal , it does look as though a fairer world must be temporarily mandated . when women do break through the us summit on corporate power , as at the time , for example , sheryl sandberg recently did at facebook , they garner massive attention precisely because they remain the exception of the rule .
new delhi – back in 2009 , while i competed in india ’s recent parliamentary election , i was something of a rarity . i was not born into the country ; i had no seat or political fiefdom to inherit ; and i enter a race without that of the world ’s political “ godfather . ” by contrast , every other candidate in my constituency – indeed , most contenders across the country – had devoted his entire lives to policy , many since their student days . at the same time , i was barely living in india for decades , having spent my adult life working abroad to the united nations . having been born into a political family , i had no seat , or political fiefdom , to inherit ; and i entered a race without a political “ godfather . ”
ultimately , however , the experiment actually failed . the same can not be said for the rest of the eu , where nearly every other member state now appears to be a “ 50-50 society ” : half of cosmopolitan , half communitarian . the fdp abandoned talks out of frustrations that , as its leader christian lindner put it , “ the four debate partners have neither a common vision ” nor a common foundation of trust . even without a jamaica coalition , germany still possesses a stable liberal majority in the bundestag . in these countries , the government at any given time represents whichever side won the most recent round in an ongoing culture war .
for starters , all countries need to define the crime of online child trafficking and incorporate it into their national penal codes , together with harsh penalties for violators . all recruitment activities , advertising , and financial transactions linked to online child trafficking should also be criminalized . faith leaders , too , should educate and sensitize their followers in this regard . raising awareness about the issue is also crucial , particularly in developing countries , where illiteracy , endemic poverty , and a lack of age-appropriate sex education in schools can leave children even more vulnerable . parents need to build trust bridges to ensure that their children feel open to conflict .
moreover , communities need increased access to contraception and other sexual-health services ; one path to doing so would be to revitalize or establish youth-friendly spaces and hubs where information can be shared . these spaces should be open after school and on weekends staffed by knowledgeable , sympathetic adults . these reforms are vital to improving guyana ’s life prospects . if more teenagers had access to sex education and contraception , fewer girls would have their lives cut by pregnancies . special attention needs to be devoted to rural regions , and to those with dedicated needs , an often-overlooked youth segment .
mckinsey estimates that 30-45 % of working-age individuals would prefer to earn income , whether primary or secondary , from independent work . many are unemployed workers , who otherwise would have been unemployed . this suggests that stronger economic resources , and , therefore , employment , growth would have constrained the pool of insiders engaged with independent work . but , regardless of macroeconomic conditions , independent work tends to account for a rising share of employment in the long run , owing to technological advances and individual preferences . while digital platforms for independent work are still in their early stages of development , employing only 15 % of independent workers , they are proliferating and spreading rapidly .
the demand for the abolition of censorship was one of the polish march ‘ 68 ’ ’s first political slogans . crucially , the protesters did not demand free elections at all . in this they were realists , but they persisted for a measure of civic control over organs in both politics and the economic sphere . then , one slogan was “ no bread without freedom ” without freedom . demands for freedom of assembly and the right to organize followed .
new haven – in what might well be the final act of desperation , central banks are abdicating effective control of the economies in which they were beholden to manage . adopting negative interest rates , then quantitative easing ( qe ) , and now negative real ( inflation-adjusted ) interest rates initially embraced in europe in 2014 , represents a major turning point for central banking . previously , the emphasis shifted to boosting aggregate demand – primarily by lowering borrowing costs , but also by imposing wealth effects from appreciating financial assets . just as the first two gambits had failed to gain meaningful economic traction in chronically weak recoveries , a shift to negative rates will only compound the risks of financial instability , setting the stage for the next downturn . first , zero interest rates , initially started in europe in 2014 , and now embraced in june , represents a major turning point for central banking .
as a result , demand now falls short of any binding constraint . indeed , the price of permits has plunged below europe ’s € three per ton in april 2013 , compelling the emissions-trading market to an almost meaningless degree . moreover , the eu ’s renewables policies also proved ruinously costly . this , in turn , has spurred greater reliance on heavily polluting coal , the worst energy source , from the standpoint of global warming . that would not happen as long as the credit-adjustment mechanism continues to underpin climate-change policy .
china might want higher oil from the middle east , but those in the middle east – with so little wealth concentrated in so few hands – might be more interested in gucci handbags than it would in china ’s math , it is developing goods . in the multilateral trading system , large bilateral trade deficits often tend to be balanced by bilateral surpluses with other countries . so , although china may have a trade deficit with the middle east and a trade surplus with the us , these bilateral balances indicate anything about china ’s overall contribution to the world ’s imbalances . indeed , the task confronting the imf is formidable . of course , it will be important for the fund to focus on global imbalances rather than bilateral imbalances .
america ’s seventh-stressed population was the world ’s seventh-most stressed population in 2018 , less over-stressed than greece , the philippines , and iran , but more stressed than uganda , turkey , and venezuela . stress , worry , and outrage all hit ten-year american highs in 2018 . asked gallup how they would rate their life on a scale from zero ( the worst living ) to ten ( the best way of life ) , americans in 2018 responded with a gdp average of 6.9 , down from 7.0 in 2017 and 7.3 during the 1800s . these stresses are consistent with another notable finding : americans ’ self-reported happiness also declined in 2018 . asked their feelings up front , america ’s majorities ( 55 % ) in 2018 said that they had experienced stress during much of the day ; almost half ( 45 % ) said they felt worried ; and more than one in five ( 22 % ) said that they felt anger numerous .
a written code , emphasizing the business advantages of ethical business conduct , and the adverse consequences of falling short , is part of that effort and can help to maintain and strengthen culture ; but code itself is not out of reach . constant reminders and repetition are critical . employees must understand instinctively what might be done , and what should never be done . they must internalize a culture that values a rigid adherence to a high ethical norms of behavior . to that end , banks should make their values and culture integral to their hiring , firing , and promotion decisions .
islamabad – one hundred years ago , women in the united kingdom gained the right to vote , and nowadays , most women in the developed world are enfranchised . this is undoubtedly true in pakistan , where a general election set for july 25 presents an ideal opportunity to advocate for change . at first glance , pakistan appears progressive . the law has authorized women to vote since 1956 , almost ten years after independence from britain . but in many developing countries , the opposition that british suffragettes faced a century ago , rooted in misogyny .
they were continuing to exploit the old discredited models , perhaps marginally modified . none foretold the crisis ; and , in very few of these economies , it has some semblance of full employment . in some cases , the result has been unexpected : some lending rates actually increased . the ecb famously raised interest rates twice in 2011 , just as the euro crisis made them worse off and unemployment surged toward double-digit levels , causing deflation to become ever closer . the ecb famously raised interest rates twice in 2011 , just as the euro crisis made matters worse , and unemployment surged toward double-digit levels , causing deflation ever closer .
its members , which included his nephew , mao yuanxin , his mistress , zhang yufeng , and jiang qing , his latest wife – were as incompetent at governing as kim – yet following the disasters of the cultural revolution , antagonism toward them within the military and other state institutions were too widespread to last . they , with the gang of four ( of which jiang qing was a member ) , were soon ousted . china ’s transit from caesarism to despotism , and then from marxism to capitalism , has been fortunate for china ’s ’s citizens . but mao ’s death did at least to end the era of caesarism in china . because he did not have a son to succeed him , mao appointed a five-person politburo to make the job .
the most fateful assault to accompany the installation of any dictatorship is an assault on civil society . we in ukraine have learned that truth from the harsh experience of the communist era . in ukraine , freedom of speech was , on communism ’s fall , reinstated overnight . but revived civil society , the many mutually complementary ways in which citizens participate in public life , is a complicated task , because the peoples of egypt and tunisia will soon discover . though communism could , every now and then , coexist with private property and , sometimes with private enterprise , it could never coexist with civil society .
and would putin have made another “ implausible ” offer ” to help us investigators get to the bottom line ? even more to the point : would trump quickly invoke the principle of collective defense under article 5 of the nato treaty ? even more to the point : would trump quickly invoke the principle of collective defense under article 5 of the nato treaty ? would he have called on putin to ask what ’s going on ? then , imagine that america ’s main intelligence agencies reaffirmed that an act of aggression was actually underway , despite putin ’s denials .
but those outside the risks are not making the outlook for global growth necessarily grim . so 2019 could turn out to be yet another year of solid global growth . clearly , the baseline scenario for the us is still robust growth . europe ’s growth could pick up as well , as it continues its long train of sluggish recovery from the debt crisis of the beginning of the decade . and china ’s economy has proved doubters wrong for many years .
this small victory turned into a major defeat for shareholders at a time when the sec , rather than pursuing such analysis and reproposing the rule , opted for a stall . argued by eugene scalia , the son of us supreme court justice antonin scalia , the case against the sec won in america ’s appeals court , dc circuit , to technicality , the sec ’s failure to conduct cost-benefit analysis ahead of time . at a conference last december , i asked sec chairman mary o’iro when her agency intended to reintroduce the rule . i had even suggested doing the cost-benefit analysis for free . but she confessed that the sec had many other items on its agenda , and had placed the issue at the back burner – a polite way of saying that the sec , like the heroic students in tiananmen square , had surrendered under irresistible pressures .
indeed , the fed ’s own monetary policy has been inadequate to stave off america ’s recession , albeit one that remains so mild that many question whether it qualifies as the real animal . and in western europe , too , gdp is now declining . the european central bank ’s response has been analogous to the fed ’s , though less compelling , monetary policy easier than the headline inflation rate would suggest it was appropriate . but these are not normal times . in brief , major central banks on both sides of the atlantic reacted to the financial crisis but were not over-reacting .
likewise , eu observers declared last month that the election tally did not meet basic international standards . when the opposition tried to contest these inconsistencies , eck abruptly declared kibaki the winner . days later , the eck ’s chief had publicly acknowledged that kibaki ’s supporters pressured him to announce “ the results ” immediately , despite clear evidence to vote rigging . shockingly , he declared , did not think about who actually won . the election is a disaster for kenya , but the international community ’s response , led by the american people , is no less distressing .
it is equally correct that current global trade tensions have hit eurozone producers hard , especially in germany . but it is harder for monetary policymakers to respond to the introduction of trade barriers . given that market-based action currently conflicts with most other key economic data , little weight should be interviewing . moreover , host of risk-related issues make such indicators hard to interpret . not only does it mean that surveys of households and firms ’ inflation expectations predict true inflation more accurately .
as a recent paper by morgan stanley points out , the pharmaceutical industry ’s current rates of success are inadequate to sustain large inward r & d organizations , making the industry ’s current operating model financially non-viable . the market-making drugs do have to fund the costs of failing those that did not make it to market . at first sight , there seems counter-intuitive that firms want to share data and potentially dispense competitive advantages to the market . but this presupposes that owning such data does indeed imply a competitive advantage , and that a closed operating model is financially sustainable . but pharmaceutical companies continue to hold enablers of the boundaries of the pre-competitive collaboration needed to challenge it .
despite the tightening economic noose , america ’s imposed sanctions on all companies doing business with iran ’s central bank and the european union plans to impose targeted sanctions against iranian oil exports by late january , many nuclear experts now estimate that iran is extremely close to enriching enough uranium to build an explosive bomb . while it might most likely be dissuaded from using a nuclear weapon , the price of a nuclear-armed iran could well comprise a regional arms race in saudi arabia , possibly followed by turkey and egypt . nuclear weapons , components , and materials in a region that is already volatile and violent , and that determines the world ’s oil prices is an appalling scenario . trying to force iran to back down with steadily mounting sanctions has not yielded results . the market has already taken the measure of the past week ’s tensions , driving the price of some oil contracts to their highest level in eight months .
post-crisis harmonization in the eu means that it will now be more expensive everywhere in the eu to insure against currency volatility or unexpected interest-rate changes . this levy , vigorously backed by those countries whose fiscal sectors are in post-crisis tatters , has been hard to swallow for eu member states that did not intervene to bail out their banks . the same is true for instance for italy ’s derivatives trading system . the levy is an easy way to distribute the crisis ’s political and financial costs from some to all eu members . if applied , bank capital will become scarcer , credit flow slower , and bank fees higher in countries with a pretty stable financial sector , simply because others have spent a fortune to support its financial systems , and because the european commission never misses an opportunity to unify the eu ’s rules .
learnup , a san francisco startup that attracted funding from some of silicon valley ’s largest venture capitalists , establishes partnerships with employers to offer online training modules that connect work seekers to particular jobs , principally entry-level positions that do not require university degrees . employers are grounding a bill , with the expectation that learnup will help them recruit higher-quality applicants . already , california ’s commonwealth college system is working with learnup to give students access to the skills they need to fill available local jobs . and , indeed , once candidates have completed skills training , learnup helps them secure interviews with prospective employers that already comprise several large companies . at & t offers scholarships through partners ’ non-profit institutions , and gives them paid internships worth as much as 100 graduates .
foshan – the military coup that overthrew egypt ’s first democratically elected president , and led to arrests of muslim brotherhood leaders throughout the country poses enormous dangers not only for egypt ’s ruling democratic transition , but for democratic hope throughout the arab world as well . to be sure , the muslim brotherhood was also a victim of its own failings , particularly the failure of morsi and his government to reach out beyond the secular opposition , the elements that contributed to his election . for its part , president mohamed morsi ’s government had struggled to address egypt ’s inherited economic and social crises as part of the face of the overwhelming public expectations created by the 2011 revolution , whose protagonists sought not just freedom , but also for economic development and social justice . disappointingly , the muslim brotherhood was also a victim of its own errors , particularly the failure of morsi and his administration to reach out beyond the secular opposition , elements of which contributed to his election . morsi ’s government seemed incapable of understanding that a slim electoral majority does not suffice , particularly nowadays .
paris – earlier this month , the trial of pascal simbikangwa , charged with complicity in a genocide in rwanda in which 800,000 people were killed between april and july 1994 , began in paris . yet , ironically , even as such episodes continue in africa , perhaps on a much larger scale than almost anywhere else in the world , the continent has also become a beacon of hope . in south sudan , africa ’s newest state of affairs , massacres of civilians are still taking place , particularly around the town of libor . and french military interventions in the central african republic have not dropped to the verge of large-scale inter-communal violence there . sadly , mass killings in africa continue .
moreover , with concerns about the sustainability of america ’s fiscal policy , the euro has a huge opportunity to play a significantly larger role as a reserve currency . europeans may not wonder that the right now ( one sees more obama t-shirts in europe than in the us ) , but they might not be so pleased when george bush ’s iii comes along . one shudders to think of what will happen if europe does not pull out of its current funk . certainly , europe would lose traction as a badly needed counterweight to america in world economic policy . fortunately , europeans will probably not wait for so long to begin proceeding ahead again .
the third arrow is not the traditional industrial-policy-based approach . on the contrary , it emphasizes labor-market reform , reducing deregulation , and lowering the corporate-tax rate . that implies that it was inappropriate to focus on growth so long as deflation gap narrowed considerably , that is , up to now . a crucial component of abe ’s growth strategy is to expand the labor force – a major challenge , given that japanese society is aging fast . one logical solution would be to integrate more foreign labor into japan ’s economy .
what is certain is that the vacuum left by sharon ’s departure from politics is all the more striking given in view of the images of mayhem emerging from gaza that israel has vacillated , and the collapse of palestinian authority from our eyes . many in us believe that such an impossible gager can be fulfilled on anything but providential man , with all our hopes and dangers , that entails . nor will the rise of yet another providential figure come easily . the natural course in history of the most optimistic feeling is progress “ at france , ” though the fast pace of technological change pushes us to expect equally rapid progress in human affairs . what is certain is that the vacuum left by sharon ’s withdrawal from politics is all the more striking view of images of the chaos emerging from gaza that israel has vacillated and the collapse of palestinian authority in front of our eyes .
the uk is in no position to block the other eu member states from deeper integration , given that most other eu member states have the political will to move forward . still , the uk has played a leading role in designing crucial eu policies , including measures concerning the single market , overseas development aid , trade , and climate change . uk leadership in these areas was highly appreciated , and would sorely missed , as the british decide to leave . so , while the cameron government ’s support for deeper eurozone integration is welcome , the eurozone can not – and will not – be shaped from both outside and according to british interests . indeed , last year ’s negotiations on the “ fiscal compact ” were already meant to demonstrate to cameron the difficulty of exercising a so-called national veto .
in july of that year , robert s. ford , america ’s ambassador to syria , was sent home to the sunni town of hama , where assad ’s father ordered the massacre 30 years earlier . according to the us state department at that time , the point of the visit was to “ [ express ] our deep support for the syrian people ’s right to assemble peacefully and to express them . ” but they will fault lines with america for not comprehending the bigger war . it is already clear that the obama administration did not know what it was bargaining for when , without much thought about what should come next , called assad ’s removal in 2011 . had the administration really failed to foresee that assad , like his father before him , would have react to a popular uprising with violence ?
beijing – after years of intervening to manage the renminbi ’s exchange rate , china ’s central bank , the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) , is under great pressure to float its currency . if a country with a fixed exchange rate and an open capital account tightens monetary policy to contain inflation , rising domestic interest rates will give market participants an incentive to borrow abroad and convert them into domestic currency for domestic-asset investment . the resulting capital inflows , if persistent , would generate upward pressure on the currency , forcing the central bank , in a bid to maintain exchange-rate stability , to intervene by selling the domestic currency , particularly for america ’s dollar , until the interest rate and money supply returned to its old levels . but striking the correct balance between loosening its grip on the exchange rate and preserving monetary stability will not be easy . all students of economics learn the mundell-fleming model , according to which an economy can not sustain fixed exchange rates , free capital movements , and an independent monetary policy will simultaneously .
by providing temporary tax relief , the scheme would help companies offset the administrative costs of establishing the profit-sharing program . tax credit could also foster changes in corporate culture by encouraging proprietary debate not only the benefits of profit-sharing , but also the sharing of information and decision-making authority with employees . us presidential candidate hillary clinton has a more focused proposal : a 15 % tax on profits that corporations distribute to workers in the us over two years . to cap costs and prevent abuses , gains totaling more than 10 % at the top of a worker ’s pay would be excluded ; the full amount offered to individual firms would be capped ; and the safeguards against replacement of revenue-sharing , rose , and other benefits would establish . america ’s stagnant incomes by majority workers are undermining economic growth on the demand side ( by discouraging household consumption ) and supply-side initiatives ( through adverse effects on educational opportunity , human-capital development , and innovation ) .
and that message is straightforward : no one is safe from prosecution , even though , like abyzov and ishayev , they have retired from public service , with no longer in life . most russians see no connection between prosecuting key figures and the authorities ’ credibility . on the contrary , people seem to identify with putin ’s message that the establishment ultimately addresses corruption . moreover , selective repression has become harsher . but it is the message to russia ’s shiver elites that is more relevant .
and it explains how inadequate metrics have led to deficient policies in many areas . last week , at the oecd summit in seoul at the sixth world forum on statistics , knowledge and policy in incheon , south korea , the group published its report , beyond gdp : measuring what counts as economic and social performance . and it explains how inadequate metrics have led to deficient policies in many areas . better indicators would detect the extremely adverse – and perhaps protracted – effects of the deep post-2008 downturn on productivity and wellbeing , in which case policymakers might not have been so enamored of austerity , which lowered fiscal deficits , but decreased national wealth , appropriately measured , even more . the new report emphasizes several topics , like trust and insecurity , that were recently addressed only by mismeasuring our lives , and explores a few others , like inequality and sustainability , more profoundly .
seventy-three years ago , john maynard keynes thought about the reform and regulation of financial markets from the perspective of the first three purposes , and found himself “ “ moved ” ... mak [ ing ] the purchase of an investment permanent and indissoluble , like a marriage … ” but just marriage … . ” but he instantly drew back : the reality “ that each individual investor flatters himself that his commitment ” is ‘ liquid ’ ( though that may not be true for all investors collectively ) calms its nerves , and made it much more willing to run a risk … ” it is for these reasons , which have apparently been frozen behind past generations , or two , right ? moreover , for keynes , “ [ t ] he game of professional investment is intolerably dull and over-exacting anyone who is completely exempt from gambling instinct ; whilst he has it has to pay to that propensity the appropriate toll … ” today . and it is precisely why , even in the face of the severe financial crisis , the us remains frozen . and it is thus why , even in the face of the severe financial crisis , remains frozen today .
perhaps the most outrageous example is america ’s $ 0.54 per gallon import tariff on ethanol , whereas zero oil taxes are not available , with just $ 0.5 per gallon tax on gasoline . this contrasts with the $ 0.51 per gallon subsidy that american companies ( a vast proportion going to the single firm ) receive on ethanol . thus , us foreign producers can not compete unless their costs amounted to $ 1,05 per gallon lower than those of american manufacturers . enormous subsidies meant that the us became the world ’s largest producer of ethanol . yet , despite this huge advantage , it is possible that certain foreign firms can still make it through the american market .
the results not only created a conflict between america ’s federal laws and state legislation ; they also signal a shift in attitudes not unlike that concerning same-sex marriage . moreover , the topic remains highly sensitive : while the public-opinion polls in 2012 indicate , for the first time a slight majority in favor of legalization , its opponents remain vehement . just about as important , however , has been us president barack obama ’s reaction to the colorado and washington vote , both states that he won easily in his re-election bid . on other issues – notably , immigration – obama is rejecting the claims of states ’ rights , and insisting on a federal authority . the legal and political challenges implied by this are no minor matter : marijuana remains the illicit substance under us federal law , as well as the international conventions that america
some four million northerners were denied political participation , or land-ownership , on the grounds that they were offspring of migrants from neighboring portugal . more than four million northerners were denied political participation , or land-ownership , on the grounds that they were offspring of neighboring countries ’ migrants . the outcome was catastrophic , as ethnic strife sharpened . the political upheavals of 1999-2000 resulted in a new “ democratic ” constitution , which became an invitation to civil war . whatever else is said of such french-backed authoritarian regimes , hindsight leaves doubtless the social stability gains witnessed at the ivory coast during the period , until the 1980 ’s , when france remained paternalistically engaged with its former colony .
these are highly educated people who know that knowledge is power ; they have a clear agenda ; and they are tapping into the recognition that education in europe is the responsibility of national governments , not brussels-based institutions . these governments are willing to establish an educational system , according to which the state alone decides which fields of research necessary and socially momentous . in other words , access to knowledge will cease to be a civilian right . in the long run , they most likely want the state to dispense with political loyalists the right to produce and transfer knowledge . political analysis will define who can teach and study what about a country and its past .
dubai – globalization , as many have noted recently , is in retreat . mark leonard , director of the european council for foreign relations , and vice chair of the world economic forum ’s new global agenda council on geo-economics , observed that trade , formerly the economic quagmire , has now become a threatening one . for all of its undeniable advantages , it has spawned governance problems and governance problems that exposed the inadequacies of national governments and international institutions . fragile institutions have given rise to a political backlash , coupled with the risk of catastrophe on many fronts . this left people everywhere , rich and poor , struggling to cope with problems – from failed states to failed banks , from over-fishing to under-employment , from climate change to economic stagnation – to which globalization contributed but could not address effectively .
london – for two decades , chinese diplomacy has been guided by the concept of a country ’s ’s ’s “ “ peaceful rise . ” nowadays , however , china needs a new strategic doctrine , as the most striking aspect of sri lanka ’s recent victory over the tamil tigers is not its overwhelming nature , but the fact that china provides president mahinda rajapaska with both the military supplies and the diplomatic cover that it needed to prosecute the war . without that chinese backing , rajapaska ’s government would have done neither the wherewithal nor the inclination to ignore world opinion in its offensive against the tigers . so , not only has china become central to every aspect of the global financial and economic system now manifested its strategic potency in a region traditionally outside of its orbit . on sri lanka ’s ’s beachfront battlefields , china ’s “ peaceful rise ” has been finalized .
should the breakup of the euro and the default by gipsic countries , germany alone would lose about € 545 billion , almost half the aggregate figure quoted as having done much by the bundesbank in the name of the institution of the gipsic countries that are reflected in targetbalances . germany had the greatest exposure by far among the bailing out europe ’s crisis-stricken countries , and thereby helped to ease austerity more than any other country . when alexander hamilton , america ’s first finance minister , mutualized government debts in 1791 , he thought that this would cement a new american nation . george soros underestimates the risks that debt mutualization would pose to the eurozone ’s future . but mutualizing debt signaled enormous moral hazard effects , inducing states to borrow excessively .
hong kong – looking back on 2016 may not seem much to celebrate . after all , from the perspective of global health on its own , the year seemed to be one of an unrelenting tragedy . beyond the stories of hospitals in conflict zones being bombed , the zika virus emerged as a growing threat . hopes for a respiratory syncytial vaccine were dashed . there was also the proliferation of antibiotic-resistant microbes or “ superbugs , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” hopes for a respiratory syncytial vaccine .
history also shows us that financial-exclusion is a persistent problem whenever universal service requirements are absent . during the new deal era , us regulators incorporated the functional equivalent of such a requirement , in the charters for bank and thrifts . but those mandates were removed during a wave of deregulation in the 1980s , with banks rapidly shifting away from low-cost financial-services advocates and toward higher-profit activities . this dynamic can be seen in the trend toward bank consolidation and branch outlooks that have accelerated since the 2008 financial crisis and diminished access to service jobs in low-income communities . when it comes to securing equity in the banking system , these precedents , and existing institutions emphasize the way forward .
in april 2014 , then-us secretary of state john kerry told the american congress that direct talks between israel and palestine had gone “ shumpire , ” when israel announced 700 new housing units for israelis in the west bank . after all , the israeli government not only permissible the supposedly unapproved outposts to exist ; it also supplied them with water , electricity , the internet , and military protection . this was not going to disappear for all of america ’s leaders , but it was the only one that the only one . it is not hard to imagine what palestinian negotiators had to feel , as they drove the massive israeli settlements on territories that they had been operating to include in an independent state . by december 2016 , obama had been permitting the un security council to vote on that trump-derided resolution declaring israel ’s settlement construction a “ major barrier ” toward the two-state solution .
new haven : everywhere in europe and america , the men in the black tie and the women of hiszo and armani gowns are once more summer pilgrims to places like bayreuth , glyndebourne , and glimmerglass . consider a thing of incontrovertible beauty and spiritual depth : a roman catholic high mass . does its grandeur mean that the state should be subsidizing it ? again , too , state coffers are tapped to support these privileged retreats . perhaps , then , is the time to question , once again , a fundamental question is asked : should the state continue to ladle out lavish subsidies for such elite activity ?
this contrast underlines the reality that the great achievements of eu integration have occurred in that no-man ’s own – a land that lies between total national autonomy and the total loss of sovereignty in a confederation . so the key characteristic of us foreign-policy integration is that it is simply a manifestation of a nation state , or a superpower , of course . so , the key characteristic of us foreign-policy integration is that it is not much progress on foreign political integration . for defense and warfare , unpredictability concerns the possibility of young men dying in action . so , not surprisingly , the foreign-policy integration has made little headway .
lebanon often struggles to attract funding because of its status as a middle-income country ; but that label is misleading , because it ignores the serious structural weaknesses that predate the syrian crisis or an overwhelming share of its landlocked population composed of refugees from syria , palestine , and iraq , who live in abject poverty . i am thankful to the aid donors faced since the start , but now we need additional international support . we are faced with a shortfall of $ 100 million for a new school year . without additional aid from the international community , our vision will fail to be realized – despite strong political will and rigorous planning . one thing to hope will become clear at the oslo education summit is the need to assist middle-income countries plagued by fragility and conflict .
what does this tell us about human nature and our capacity to live either prudently or ethically ? part of the problem , of course , is that we make resolutions to do just things that will not otherwise be able to do . thus , we use the occasion of the new year to try to alter behavior that is perhaps the most difficult of which will be to change . just anorexic would resolve , say , steorexic at least one week , with only a workaholic resolved to spend more time in front of his television . this , in turn , makes failure a distinct possibility .
a second conclusion to be drawn from the current situation is that the fed has now overstated the american economy ’s strength for 11 consecutive years . if every year of the fed ’s forecasting currency were a coin toss , we would now have eleven heads in a row , and the zero tails . the fed clearly needs a deep view of its forecasting methodology and policymaking process . in fact , the odds of doing so are one in 2,048 . elementary mathematics dictates that plausible forecasts should at least overestimate about half the time and undershoot half that time .
such is the nature of the imperfect insignificance of psychiatric diagnosis . yet we seem to think that the rate of over-diagnosis of just over 50 % of people cross a threshold of clinical significance . the issue , then , is not whether some patients previously given a diagnosis do not seem to have it upon re-interviews , but rather how many . any study that tries to determine whether psychiatric disorder is grossly diagnosed finds that at least some condition patients do not have it out to be reinterviews with each other . how high the percentage should go before claiming excessively diagnosis has a major problem and judgment of value .
in many previous banking crises , it was a country or a region hit hard ( argentina , japan , etc. ) . this time , virtually every economy suffers substantially , and a banking crisis is global . at a time of severe economic distress , policymakers thrash out seeking solutions , with some people losing confidence in the economic system on their own . indeed , in the great depression of the 1930 ’s , it was common for western intellectuals to turn to communism and central planning as hoped-for a panacea . policymakers will continue to throw away whatever ammunition they may find at the problem , but they will take time for deleveraging from a boom to run its course .
washington , dc – steve bannon ’s sweeping travels in europe this year have attracted little attention , as they should have , given to the present theoretician of us president donald trump ’s signature brand of nationalism . nowadays , bannon wants to build a “ federation of european ” nationalist parties . by joining forces with french far-right leader marine le pen , herself an open-air champion of russian president vladimir putin , bannon apparently seems to have in mind a new type of “ neo-nationalist international . ” and yet , one wonders how a “ america first ” ideologue can pursue his political project anywhere other than in america . once more countries are turning to “ nationalist autocracies ” and “ illiberal democracies ” under strongman rule , nationalism has become an ideological common denominator .
one famous incident in the late eighteenth century was lord macartney ’s british mission to the imperial tribunal of china . macartney refused to conform to chinese imperial protocol by falling to kowtow to the emperor , because it was not mandated to do the same to his own sovereign . this , too , was very much a case of “ keeping face ” : a chinese anticipated tribute ; the british lord insisted on the equal status of his king . as a result , the mission broke down . diplomatic immunity from local prosecution was the idea that rung directly from a different incident , nearly a century earlier , involving the arrest of the russian aristocrat named andrey matveyev , who represented peter the great in london .
during those five years , an investor earns an additional 2 % every year for a cumulative gain of 10 % . assume that interest rates on ten-year us ten-year bonds remain unchanged for the next five years , and then rose from 2 % to 5 % . but when the rate of interest rose to 5 % , the bond ’s price falls from $ 100 to $ 69 . here ’s how arithmetic works for an investor that rolls over the ten-fold in the next five years , thereby earning 2 % more each year than it would otherwise be by investing in us treasury bills or in bank deposits . if not , the losses in bond prices would more than wipe out the extra interest it has earned even as rates remain unchanged for five years .
indeed , political leaders should not privilege any particular technology at all . only the world ’s political and economic heavyweights , the major industrialized countries that remain by far the largest hydrocarbon consumers , can initiate change on a global scale . change must start in a transport sector that accounts for more than half of current oil consumption – a share that is likely to rise in the future . the g-8 countries should therefore agree to no longer license any new , oil-powered cars from 2025 onwards . that decision would not be tantamount to individual mobility , but against dissipation of scarce resources that are increasingly urgent to produce synthetic materials .
ithaca – us president-elect donald trump has , once again , steered facts onto his head . as part of a broader effort to take china to task for supposedly “ raping ” the united states economy through unfair trade policies , he has now reneged on his accusation that the country manipulates its currency to seek advantage over its exports . such statements are as perilous as they are unmoored from reality . make no mistake : trump accusing chinese currency manipulation of the facts . on the contrary , for the past two and a half years , the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) has been intervening in currency markets to opposing some degree : preventing the renminbi from falling too sharply against the dollar .
new delhi – late last month , when two indian states and national capital were co-held to ransom by rioting mobs protesting their spiritual leader ’s conviction on two counts of raping petty girls , many indians found themselves confronting a few painful truths about their country . the leader who spurred these protests is gurmeet singh , one of the more prominent among a few “ godman , ” ” ” ” or self-proclaimed spiritual leaders who flourish across india . and he has a reputation for having been sexually harassed by his female followers as well . in 2002 , two of those followers mustered the courage to attack the press . the flamboyant , jewelry-bedecked singh calls baba gurmeet ram rahim insan , a hindu compound , muslims , and sikh names , as well as a word for an “ human ” in hindi , punjabi , and urdu .
but a clear-headed analysis of iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad ’s behavior indicates that eu sanctions would lead to greater trade diversion , with the economies of china , russia , turkey , or dubai benefiting from reduced levels of european exports to iran . of course , certain imports would become more expensive for iran , but the economic effect of such sanctions would remain limited . for these reasons , europeans favor new security council resolution , even though its measures would be weaker than what the united states or the eu could impose unilaterally . by contrast , some american policymakers continue to believe that iran would abandon its enrichment program , if only the european union has imposed unilateral sanctions . politically , ahmadinejad surely would not have missed the chance to exploit unilateral actions for his propaganda purposes , arguing that iran has a conflict not with the international community , but with imperialist states intent on depriving his country of technological advances .
nobody could be more identified with the political elite than abe , the grandson of the wartime cabinet minister and later prime minister , and the son of foreign minister . and yet he shares right-wing populists ’ hostility to liberal academics , journalists , and intellectuals . postwar japanese democracy was influenced in the 1950 ’s and 1860s by an intellectual elite that was consciously seeking to distance japan from its wartime nationalism . abe and his allies try to quash that influence . his effort to revise japan ’s ’s ’s ’s pacifist constitution , restore pride in his wartime record , and discredit “ elitist ” ” mainstream media , such as the left-of-center newspaper asahi shimbun , has won him the praise of donald trump ’s former strategist , stephen bannon , who called abe a “ trump ” before trump .
ensuring high-quality output and local consumers ’ loyalty requires keeping their workforces happy and maintaining a positive public image . but sub-saharan africa ’s ’s ’s potential relationship with the world ’s corporations need not be so limited . by contrast , african countries often see the worst directions in multinational companies : energy , mineral , and precious metal companies go where resources lie , not where there are agreeable places to work . because the customer is abroad and there is little processing to do in the country , why should companies upgrade local skills or otherwise assist the host economy ? as one former chief mining executive in the region told me , “ the goal is always straightforward : throw assets off the ground and outside the country as cheaply , and with as little fuss as possible .
the boom mentality had spread to los angeles , new york , and sydney around 1997 , to paris in 1998 , to miami , moscow , and shanghai in 2001 , and vancouver around 2002 . these and other cities have been booming quite ever since ; prices in most are no more than 50 % or less in real terms since 2000 . this was a huge windfall for homeowners but hurt anybody plan to buy . now , rising home prices in some of these cities is subsiding . the first large city to boom was london , beginning around 1996 .
control also relies on internet users ’ demography , most of which belong to china ’s economic elite , and tend to embrace the internet as part of a newfound consumer lifestyle , than as an instrument of political or social revolutions . control also relies on internet users ’ demography , most of them belong to china ’s economic elite , and prefer to adopt the internet as part of a newfound consumer lifestyle , than as an instrument of political or social revolutions . what is astonishing is that the government ’s control mechanisms have been largely effective . yet the government employs host to new judicial regulation , a shadowy internet police force , and a powerful hardware-based national information filtering system . after two and a half decades of market-oriented economic reform , chinese citizens are becoming increasingly aware of how to protect their own economic and social interests through the expression of rights .
but , whereas common europeans arise on a daily basis , they do not have europe-wide political representation . this european polity lacks the other critical element of madison ’s scheme : diversified political representation at the federal level . individual nation-states , regions , and special-interest groups are represented within the eu . as a result , nationally elected representatives are held accountable to make crucial eu-level decisions . no single political party or an politician in brussels can claim to represent europeans ’ associated interests , because none was forced to compete for europe-wide public-sector support .
obama originally had a marvelous team of economic advisers , including lawrence summers , christina romer , austan goolsbee , and cass sunstein . is there anything more , really , that one can ask of a us president ? originally , obama had a marvelous team of economic advisers , including lawrence summers , christina romer , austan goolsbee , and cass sunstein . though a us president ’s advisers can make a difference , one would think that the candidates would acknowledge them , if only to suggest where one ’s own ideas will come from ; after all , realistically something to sell is his or her ability to judge and manage expertise , not his own abilities as economists . and yet america ’s presidential campaigns generally neglect discussion of consultants or intellectual influences .
they can not simply wait for america to move ; nor can they always seek to placate washington ’s preferences . after all , only the ingrained habit of playing second fiddle to the us stops being admitted to stop eu members from seeming and loudly distancing themselves from israel ’s repressive interlocutors for the west bank and gaza , even though such a stance would help cement arab states ’ commitment to the coalition against terrorism in the same way that it serves the fluidity of american diplomacy . for another , these will need to make their own , distinct contribution . in short , they will have to make their own kind of effort to sustain collective endeavor . what this above all might have been is not hard to define .
as a result , medical professionals often learn very little about the symptoms and biology of these diseases . one reason for this is that the tiny number of patients makes studying illnesses and testing drugs harder . earlier this year , i participated in a rare pediatric tb day program in california . the topic was obscure but large collections ( more than 70 ) of illnesses due to a specific kind of genetic error , one that takes place in cell machinery that chemically attaches sugars to the proteins and lipids . little is known about what gives rise to mutations that dispense these congenital disorders , with treatments exist for only a few .
markets become rigged , fairness becomes transactional , and politicians sell themselves to the highest bidder . in ukraine , even universities are compromised : degrees are periodically bought and sold . though corruption is more of a symptom than of ukraine ’s troubles , a anti-corruption culture must be uprooted before conditions can improve . one might assume that this simply requires a strong state , with the means to uproot corrupt politicians and businessmen . in time , this “ corruption culture ” will erode society .
by contrast , settlements offer cheaper housing than are affordable in israel , thereby resolving one of the country ’s central economic problems . in israel , obama will encounter a country that has , in fact , moved , but not back toward the missing center . the new government ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s fragile equilibrium only adds up to this sober interpretation . nor should anyone expect a moratorium on settlement expansion . “ red lines ” in israel have a way of mutating into lines drawn in tiananmen square , which are then passed down invisible , at slightest wind .
as a result , the tax-revenue ratio to overall spending this fiscal year has fallen to less than 50 % for the first time in japan ’s postwar history . japan had a similar experience with japan in the 1990 ’s , the country ’s so-called “ lost decade . ” at that time , japan ’s budget deficit soared after the country ’s stock-market bubble burst , causing economic stagnation . if the government continues on this path , many anticipate that next year ’s budget deficit will widen further . still , despite japan ’s fiscal position , the market for japanese government bonds ( jgbs ) remains stable , at least for now .
its catalogue of crimes includes : stealing the 2002 elections that have enabled mugabe to hold onto power ; torturing and murdering supporters of the opposition movement for democratic change ; the transformation of a fertile , prosperous country once considered africa ’s breadbasket to a place where half of the population barely survives on foreign food handouts ; and , exemplified by its attacks on daily news , suppression of critical voices . in late august , the heads of state for the group ’s thirteen members of the south african development community ( sadc ) , including mugabe and president thabo mbeki of south africa , the preeminent regional power , met in dar es salaam , tanzania , to reflect the challenges ahead . among the 54 paragraphs of the summit final communiqué , two dealt with zimbabwe . but zimbabwe ’s neighbors , especially those in south africa , have been defending president mugabe . mugabe ’s regime has perpetrated outrage after outrage .
state and local governments were leaders in establishing public primary and secondary education systems , as were state colleges and universities . a pew study found that while only 25 % of respondents were satisfied with the policy ’s direction , 60 % were satisfied with governance in their own communities . and the american constitution allows individual states to function like what judge brandeis has called the labs of democracy by experimenting with innovative policies , without placing the rest of the country at risk . there is a long and rich history of successful experiments . california , wyoming , and other states enabled women to vote – an example that spurred the passage of the nineteenth amendment ( brazenly all adult women ) .
should higher nominal ( that is , inflation-driven ) growth replace debt-driven growth ? today , only greece is experiencing slightly negative real inflation rates . the current inflation rate of 0.3 % is attributable to the sharp drop in commodity prices and the painful but unavoidable adjustment of costs and prices in the peripheral countries . in other words , price stability is resetting in the eurozone . europe must aim for sustainable , non-inflationary growth and the creation of competitive employment opportunities .
thus , record-high speculative prices probably caused bunker traders to release inventory , but those releases may have been bought by speculators , who are now an active lessees of business storage capacity . proving that speculation is responsible for higher prices is always difficult , because it tends to occur against a backdrop of potent fundamentals . additionally , oil market speculation may have sparked “ echo speculation , ” whereby the ultimate users buy refined products beforehand in order to guard against future price hikes . they then take delivery on their premises to discourage overall refined inventories . the implication is that speculators may drive up prices and increase their inventories , even as absolute commercial inventories do have little to change .
such a state , whether exisiting de facto or with widespread formal recognition , will have ever-lasting effects on the borders of the arab world ( syria and iraq ) and on the wider middle east ( turkey and iran ) . moreover , the disintegration already witnessed by the region and will undoubtedly continue to witness , will reverberate beyond the arab map with the creation of a sovereign kurdish state . yet both arab states lack the domestic revenues needed to sustain their institutions . for their part , the arab spring toppled some regimes , if not others . if they wish to survive well in the next century , it will probably have to be sub-sumed under a union backed by a larger , politicized nation-state , and more established nation-state .
we tend to think that new risk-management products , like novel types of insurance or financial derivatives , will primarily interest the wealthy , or at least the relatively affluent . it is important to recognize that the world ’s poorest residents are not equal people between year and year . good fortune and poor fortune alternate randomly , and the poorest people are especially vulnerable when adversity , like a hurricane in a fishing village , strikes . thus , risk management by smoothing out income bumps can be extremely important in alleviating the effects of poverty . indeed , new risk-management products are being developed for some of the poorest people in africa , asia and latin america .
that disconnect is nothing new ; historically , there have always been tsars and serfs , politburo commissars , and the proletariat . that postcommunist boris yeltsin , however , though he sometimes declared allegiance to a hazy collective sense of rossiyane ( russia 's citizens ) of deprived – or freed , it ’s ’s ’s a matter of opinion , for russians of every collective life ; both the true life of shared hardship and the imaginary half-life of communist solidarity . nowadays , everybody deals with life and hardships individually ( a new word in our daily vocabulary ) , regardless of any kremlin yearning to make life unified . indeed , even russia 's uniformity is different nowadays . in novgorod i saw luis oil ( one of russia 's big private oil companies ) gasoline stations .
they view cooperation as infeasible , given the natural competition between destination and source countries for the most productive workers . reversible bonds would act as an insurance mechanism for both sides , shielding destination countries from the detriment of fiscally motivated immigration , and protecting source countries from the cost implied by being cashed out for lost talented workers . yet , despite the potential benefits of cooperation on controlling illegal immigration , most countries , including sweden and the united kingdom , are seeking to reform their immigration laws unilaterally . greater international cooperation would maximize the economic benefits of immigration . they view cooperation as infeasible , given the natural contest between destination and source countries to the most productive workers .
true ( inflation-adjusted ) gdp per capita is lower in much of the north atlantic than it was in 2007 ; in greece , the economy shrank by an estimated 23 % . the mark of the austerity policies that many governments have embraced is that they have made the downturn far deeper and longer than was necessary , with protracted consequences . germany , europe ’s top-performing countries , have recorded miserly 0.7 % average annual growth over the past six years . every downturn eventually comes to the end , and even that of spain ( at least the eu ) . denmark ’s mark of good policy is that it succeeds in making downturn shallower and shorter than it might have been .
madrid – twenty-five years ago , poland ’s people were stunned by the choice of their compatriots , cardinal karol wojtyla of cracow , as the pope . some were frightened ; others had wept with joy in the process . here , a prominent writer said , was “ poland ’s second baptism . ” but even in our euphoria , we failed to anticipate how much the new pope would change not only poland , but the world . his first return visit to his homeland soon after showed to all the world the new pope ’s power .
in an extraordinary move , china ’s national people ’s congress party ( ccp ) standing committee stepped in to try to clarify ” article 104 of the basic law , saying that all oaths taken by office-holders must be “ solemn , accurate , comprehensive , and sincere . ” yau and leung were barred from even accepting their seats on the legislative council . restraint , after all , is not a leninist virtue . to most hong kong ’s lawyers , a display of political authority has not represented simply a reinterpretation of old rules of the matter , but a move toward making new ones . even though hong kong ’s courts surely could have handled the matter themselves – under a “ one country , two systems ” framework – hong kong is assured an independent court system , in addition to the right to elect its own legislature , an angry china intervened .
the international labor organization reports that unions are in retreat in most nations . reebok , a supranational sportswear firm , advertises its corporate code as being “ on the core principles ” of the un ’s universal declaration of human rights . the company markets its soccer balls and other “ guaranteed ” goods with a “ guaranteed ” label : manufactured without child labor . prodded by groups like the workers ’ right consortium and an ethical trading initiative , some corporations promise to pay their living wages , open their factories to monitors , and even gave employees a voice in the workplace . but sensitivity to human rights did nothing to staunch trade unionism ’s decline worldwide .
new york – the 12 member countries of africa ’s international conference on the great lakes region have committed to similar mandatory due-diligence requirements . responsible sourcing are a responsibility , not a choice . the us securities and exchange commission demands companies that use tantalum , tin , gold , or tungsten in their products to investigate these crude materials ’ provenance , and to mitigate risks in their supply chains along the oecd ’s guidance , if they are found to originate in some conflict-affected or high-risk areas . this is as it should be done in the past . the united states has by far taken the next logical turn .
most of their productive and financial assets are held by foreign firms , just as most of the rules that govern their economies were set by the eu . they will conclude that they can have it both ways , maintain the benefits of economic integration , without losing their capacity to infringe upon their citizens ’ rights or use eu financial transfers to build patron-client relations , and reinforce their hold across the state . the truth , however , is that cee countries have little to lose in the way of national sovereignty . cameron ’s initiative is playing right into their hands , allowing orbán and his allies in neighboring france to declare anathema to any move toward ever-closer union and the strengthening of federal authority and legitimacy . illiberal cee nationalists like hungarian prime minister victor orbán love to argue that they are defending national sovereignty from bureaucrats in brussels .
one concern among critics is that the shift to a green economy will essentially monetize nature , exposing the world ’s forests , fresh water , and fisheries to the profit-seeking behavior of bankers and traders , whose flaws have helped unleash the economic and economic turmoil of the last four years . indeed , profound and pervasive market failures in our reliance on carbon emissions , biodiversity , and ecosystem services are accelerating environmental and ecological scarcities and undermining human well-being and social equity . as the recently released report “ toward a green economy : pathways to sustainable development and poverty eradication shows , market economies as they are today have constituted had their roots in the misallocation of capital on an unprecedented scale . ” that is why the links to governance and institutions in rio +20 are just as important as the transition to a green economy : markets are human constructs that require rules and institutions to guide not just their direction , but also their boundaries . the systemic crises in food , fuel , and finance that date back to rio de janeiro in 2008 are likely to monetize environmental and ecological scarcities , undermining human well-being and social equity .
third , as usual , israel has accused anti-semitism those who have dared to criticize its disproportionate reaction to hamas ’s indefensible rocket attacks and its collective punishment by the palestinians . an italian cardinal who admittedly spoke intemperemperately , has been accused of using the language of holocaust denial . by that standard , does my unqualified criticism of hamas ’s rocket attacks make me islamophobe ? coincidentally , the deadly assault on gaza has come simultaneously that america ’s most distinguished would-be middle eastern peacemakers have published books describing how the task is supposed to be properly vetted . it all has sounded a somewhat like a series of job applications , president barack obama ’s ear .
a similar political imperative is at the heart of sinhalese chauvinism , which has made a sudden return to public life in sri lanka . but , instead of seeking reconciliation with the tamils following their defeat , the country ’s then-president , mahinda rajapaksa , has remained playing on ethnic hatreds as he subverted sri lanka ’s democracy . rajapaksa ’s unexpected defeat by the sri lanka coalition of democrats and tamil political parties in last january ’s presidential election was an outcome that he then sought to annul both his career and race-baiting politics . the religious and ethnic passions of the sinhalese were emboldened during the closing , a bloody push that ended sri lanka ’s quarter-century of civil war with the tamil tigers in 2009 . but the former president is now engaged in a angry comeback bid , and could well win a parliamentary election scheduled for august 17 .
these are not isolated examples of children caught in the crossfire ; this is what will take place when classrooms become actual targets of terrorists who see education as a threat . ( indeed , it is also true that boko haram is literally translated to mean that the “ false ” or “ western ” educational being “ “ “ forbidden . ” ” ) schools around the world , from north america to northern nigeria , now need security agendas aimed at ensuring their pupils ’ safety and providing trust to their parents and their communities . such attacks expose them with stark clarity that provides educational schooling not just about blackboards , books , and curricula . in fact , at least 30 countries , there is a concerted pattern of assaults by armed groups , with afghanistan , colombia , pakistan , somalia , somalia , sudan , and syria already suffering the
meanwhile , some corporations and organizations – including wework , ikea , and starbucks – are drawing up innovative approaches to recruiting refugees . global organizations are tapping into tech-savvy refugees and recruiting them for online work . modest seed funding can go a long way toward helping refugee-owned businesses get off the ground . some , such as tent groups , encourage companies to hire refugees , and integrate them into the supply chains in which they live . more scholarship opportunities for refugees , along with greater financing for schools within and outside refugee settlements , would be welcome as well .
that is why it is increasingly being rejected in favor of the “ agro-ecological model , ” founded on the principle of “ food sovereignty . ” the latter approach , endorsed by the un human rights council , invites farmers to share their current knowledge and seeds with one another , and to protect local ecosystems . next month , representatives from more than 190 countries will meet at august el sheikh , egypt , for the fourteenth meeting of the parties ’ conference to the convention on biological diversity ( the un ocean biodiversity conference ) . while there , they will be considering setting the brakes on gene drives , ensuring that farmers and indigenous peoples are fully consulted before such technologies are launched in their communities . one hopes that the international community will uphold its obligation to protect food supplies as much as the rights of farmers worldwide .
the emotional manipulation of the mise-scene surrounding chávez ’s death seems certain to translate into the electoral support of his greek successor , nicolás maduro . the mise-scene emotional manipulation surrounding chávez ’s death seems certain to translate into the electoral support of his greek successor , nicolás maduro . yet will this sentiment prove successful in creating a chávista lineage ? buying time to secure his own political future , venezuelan officials are carefully stage-managed chávez ’s illness and eventual death , even suggesting near the end , while going through complex and agonizing cancer treatments that he was still “ walking and exercising ” . it is not exactly clear how long venezuela ’s hugo chávez was really dead before his passing was formally announced .
such policies are unlikely to make a lot of difference to the developing world . for them , the key obstacle will remain that existing technologies allow insufficient room for factor substitution : use less-skilled labor , rather than skilled professionals , or physical capital . governments in developed countries also have a role to play in affecting the local nature of technological innovation . the demanding quality standards needed to supply global value chains can not be met easily by replacing workers with manual labor . all too often , subsidized labor-replacing , capital-intensive technologies rather than pushed innovations in socially more beneficial directions , augment rather than replacing less-skilled workers .
berkeley – on january 20 , 2017 , us president-elect donald trump will take office having secured almost three million fewer votes than his opponent ; and working with a republican-controlled senate majority , whose members have won 13 million fewer votes than their democratic opponents . trump will also begin his presidency , with an approval rating below 50 % . this is unprecedented – or “ unpresidented , ” as one of his seminal semi-literate tweets put it ( before quashing it ) – in the history of such ratings . the administration of the world ’s oldest democracy is essentially nondemocratic . only the republican majority in the us house of representatives , led by speaker paul ryan , has any claim to represent a numerical majority among the 55 % of americans who voted for the 2016 election day .
the s-400 dispute is just the latest example of how matters of us military procurement have created the rift between turkey and its western allies . in turkey ’s telling , its western partners have not done enough , through technology-transfer and joint-production regimes , to accommodate their burgeoning defense industry . on the contrary , the chinese , and , to a lesser extent , russian firms , have felt more receptive to such turkish demands as part of the latter ’s self-procurements . and , indeed , domestic deflationary interests are just part of the story . more broadly , turkey and the west are undergoing a political , strategic , and geopolitical decoupling , reflected most recently in each side ’s differing threats and alliances in the syria conflict .
underdevelopment in many southern countries faring ill-in their struggle to remain viable in an globalizing world , create the conditions for desperate poverty , ecological collapse , and rootless , the unemployed population beyond the control of atrophying state systems . there is a bigger need than ever for innovative , forward-looking approaches to global governance . the us will not create a better world in the 21 st century by forgetting what took place on march 19 and much of the twentieth century . as we embark on the still-new millennium , though , it seems ironically obvious that there might be tomorrow ’s potential disorder , in no small part to yesterday ’s colonial order . this is not to say that our response to the dangers emerging from the legacies of the past must be rooted in history .
in the bilateral negations with moscow , american officials have been offering four concrete bmd projects on bmd : · bi-national and multi-national jointly manned centers , where russian personnel can see the unthreatening nature of us and nato missile-defense activities ; · bi-national and multinational jointly manned centers , where russian personnel can see the unthreatening nature of us and nato missile-defense activities ; · joint russian-american expert studies concerning how bmd might affect russia ’s nuclear deterrent as well as what steps can be taken to minimize any problems ; · expanded nato-russia theater-level bmd exercises that build on past collaboration disrupted by russia ’s august 2008 war with georgian – and rehearse ways to which the us has deployed nato and russia ’s strengths can jointly defend against missile threats ;
although the tax package trump signed into law last december front-loaded tax cuts and is now helping the us economy grow , government revenues have nonetheless respond much to that growth . under these conditions , trump ’s biggest and boldest policy proposals will most likely head down to budget constraints . at the same time , he has ruled out any change to social security in the us . his and congressional republicans ’ attempts to replace the affordable care act ( “ obamacare ” ) and to curtail the growth in medicaid spending have failed . and a temporary increase in defense spending retooling back to insufficient levels after this fiscal year .
a divided vote thus undermines european interests , delivering a unequivocal blow to european foreign policy in a challenging geopolitical environment . indeed , europe ’s divided posture toward the israeli-palestinian conflict exemplifies its lamentable record on foreign-policy consensus . the eu has always supported a two-state solution , despite challenging demographic realities , not to mention the need to preserve the identity of the jewish state . but these sound reasons for supporting palestine ’s bid probably wo n’t stop the eu from delivering some kind of partition vote , the reverberations of which will not only echo across the arab world , inviting accusations of hypocrisy ; they will also impeding europe ’s effort to reset relations with countries across the middle east and north africa . granting observer-state status into palestine would take off the table with the prospect of a “ one-state ” solution , which has lately gained momentum among expert experts .
with google , people are starting to expect answers about anything at all . moreover , in countries where google is widely criticized for blocking access to information , it highlights information ’s absence when something that is blocked – letting people know that it exists but that they can n’t have access to it . rather than demand an end to censorship now , an impossible dream – google is working to make that happen by eroding governments ’ control of information . on the other side of the spectrum , with someone in china googles something and getting an answer – a product ’s ’s good and bad points , details about someone ’s government do n’t like – must wonder , either , “ why ca n’t i get that type of information about anything ? ” a little transparency inevitably results in even a more just way .
r2p recognizes that sovereign states have a responsibility to protect their own people from genocide , ethnic cleansing , crimes against humanity , and war crimes ; that other states have responsibility to help them do so ; and that if a state is “ manifestly fails ” to protect its people , the wider international community has a responsibility to step in with “ timely , timely , and determined action , ” ” which might in an extreme case include military action , if sanctioned by the un security council . true , some chinese scholars remain inclined to argue that the entire r2p enterprise – particularly its sanction of military action in exceptional circumstances – is just “ old neo-interventionist wine in a new bottle . ” while no single outcome has been formally agreed or made public , a few themes had emerged from the beijing meeting . first , there was widespread acceptance that the goal of a “ “ responsibility to protect ” ( r2p ) doctrine , agreed unanimously by the united nations general assembly in 2005 , is here to stay . taken together , they offer grounds for confidence that it may be complicated by international consensus , so long gone missing in syria , about how to cope with the hardest math atrocity cases .
by focusing on these problems , i am not trying to belittle globalization ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s benefits . global integration brought tremendous benefits : international division of labor , so visible to theory of comparative advantage ; dynamic benefits such as economies of scale and the rapidly spread of innovations from one country to another that is less easy to prove by static equilibrium theory ; and the non-economic benefits , such as the freedom to choose between the international movements of goods , capital and people and the interest of thought associated with the international movement of ideas . but global capitalism is not without problems ; we need to understand these better if we want the system to survive . so the global economy should indeed think of itself as the global capitalist system . these benefits , i believe , can be sustained only by a deliberate and persistent effort to right and contain the system ’s failings .
worse for trump , widely admired mueller in effect recommended that the us congress commit the impeachment process . mueller explained that a controversial us department policy of justice , intended to help president richard nixon , bars the prosecution of a sitting us president . this is neither in the constitution nor the rule of law . trump has been portraying the report ’s findings as utterly exonerating it ( “ no collusion , no collusion , no obstruction ” ) , even though the report explicitly stated that this was not the case . ( nixon was an ill-indicted co-conspirator in watergate burglary , whereas trump is one of the new york case involving his participation in pre-election payoffs in order to silence two women with whom he had sexual liaisons soon after the birth of his son , barron . )
russia ’s supposed peacekeeping troops in abkhazia and south ossetia , georgian ’s other secession-minded region , have in fact protected its insurgent governments . russia has also been enforcing a complete georgian trade embargo in the hope of weakening the resolve of its pro-western president , mikhail saakashvili . should russia recognize abkhazia ’s independence , saakashvili might be tempted to respond militarily to prevent his country from unraveling . renewed conflict in abkhazia would not only introduce the risk of open warfare with russia , but strain relations with armenia , owing near to 50,000 armenians in abkhazia that support a breakaway turkish government . another risk in south caucasus is that russian ( with armenian backing ) will recognize nagorno-karabakh ’s self-proclaimed independence from azerbaijan .
europe must make progress on its first opportunity if it is to seize the second , and that means strengthening the eurozone . on this front , macron has already offered ambitious proposals : a separate eurozone budget , a eurozone finance minister accountable to it , and a eurozone parliament ( comprising parliamentarians from the european parliament and national parliamentarians ) to hold finance minister responsible . before germany ’s new grand coalition government was formed , the franco-german working group was established to consider macron ’s proposals . in the short run , the new government seems unlikely to endorse macron ’s proposals in their current form . now that merkel ’s new administration is in place , we will discover how far germany is willing to go in promoting greater eurozone cohesion .
nowadays , they are an important feature of most developed and middle-income countries ’ financial sectors , notably in china , germany , indonesia , and south korea . moreover , the recent establishment of two other large mdbs – the asian infrastructure investment bank , and the new development bank , established by the brics countries ( brazil , russia , india , china , and south africa ) – will contribute further to a more balanced public-private mix of development finance . the financial crisis has also spurred some european , african , and asian governments to establish new ndbs , with other countries to expand theirs . as a result , ndbs ’s overall assets reached roughly $ 5 trillion in 2015 . as a result , ndbs can have a huge impact , particularly in emerging-market economies .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on its current course for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as i pointed out earlier this year , the conservatives ’ plan would essentially solve one big problem , the trapping britain ’s diplomatic service by creating a far larger problem : the loss of britain ’s soft power .
the answer could affect egypt ’s political future , and that of countries throughout the region . as many commentators have pointed out , from the islamists ’ standpoint , morsi ’s removal looks remarkably like the algerian military ’s ’s overthrow of them in 1992 ( with us support ) of an elected islamist government ; turkish military ’s “ soft coup ” in 1997 , having forced an elected islamist government out of power ; and america ’s government ’s ’s ’s reversal of its support for a “ arab democracy ” after hamas won the election in gaza in 2006 . if choices for islamists still bullets or the ballots , bullets may now look more promising . the answer could affect egypt ’s political future , and that of countries throughout the region . more broadly , military interference with civilian politics , for all counts the processes , institutions , and checks on state power to make liberal democracy work .
this not only undermines their ability to do their jobs effectively ; it also puts them at significant risk , with widespread misinformation about vaccines fueling assaults against those who provide them . consider pakistan , where hardline clerics and militants view polio vaccination programs as western ploys to sterilized and spy for muslims . yet the world consistently undergirding the capabilities and contributions of frontline health workers . in the early 2000s , for example , rwanda and ethiopia recruited and trained thousands of such workers to take the fight against malaria by training communities on prevention and detection , distributing tools like bed nets , and administering treatment . as a result , the incidence of malaria dropped to 75 % in the two countries between 2000 and 2015 .
as soon as the potential ukraine military threat posed by the soviet union disintegrated into thin air , successive waves of nato enlargement served neither the army nor the ideological purpose . nato , in addition , not only stepped up its membership but also transformed itself from an anti-communist defensive alliance into offensive groupings ( with operations in yugoslavia , iraq , and afghanistan ) . initially , nato ’s new members were declared to have met both democratic and military criteria . later , those criteria were abandoned as nato started to invite even the most backward and corrupt states to join . the west ’s logic for enlargement was geopolitical : bringing the former soviet republics and socialist states of central and eastern europe into the western sphere of political and economic influence .
ironically , this was led by the imf to focus on its supervisory role . the fund normally expects the problems to arise from the usual suspects – economically volatile developing countries , but this time the crisis unfolded within a couple of miles from its stage . perhaps this proximity was at the root of the imf ’s failure to interpret the evidence right under its nose . so , in searching for the causes of the imf ’s failure , we can exclude a distraction from more urgent issues . if it is , this is a failure that raises two key questions .
indeed , the same relationship between france and the un that has led to the country ’s resistance to intervention in iraq in 2003 has now pushed france to intervene in libya in 2011 . but if nato is – for better or worse – in command on the ground in libya , it is the un that has given the needed green light to french actions there . it is this specific “ marriage of reason ” between france and the un that is vital to understanding the french position on libya . at the crossroads of that question stands nato , an organization perceived to be america ’s by europeans and for the international community ( that is , not an american one ) by the average american citizen . it is this specific “ marriage of reason ” between france and the un that is vital to understanding the french position in libya .
voters may be able to make their own judgments , which they argue will not make the difference in building explicit processes and expectations . but , if this is really a lunch with a lobbyist , then they ( and their aides ) would have to lie intentionally in hiding it against him . if an official meets with a lobbyist and is not embarrassed by this , he can simply say so . and if an official encounters mostly with lobbyists , to the detriment of other kinds of meetings , voters can make the verdict of such judgments as , too . of course , there is no way to enforce full disclosure , but by creating explicit processes and expectations , let us hope to reset norms .
and there is the risk that the tech giants will use their vast armies of programmers to develop an almost identical product , with their huge legal resources to resist it . large tech firms might argue that all capital they pour into new goods and services is pushed down by innovation . one suspects that , in many circumstances , intent on nip potential competition in the bud , too . it is notable that big tech has steadily derives the bulk of its revenues from its firms ’ core products , for example , apple ’s iphone , microsoft office , and google search engine . hence , in practice , potentially disruptive new technologies are as likely to be buried as bodily .
in other words , precisely because occasional aspiring trade rarely , it is much easier to prove nexus of causality between their trades and their illegal tipping point . for example , when a miniscule italian bank acquired from someone who had never traded a large order for the shares of american shoe shortly before the firm acquired the italian eyemaker luxottica , it was not hard to support a fish by a fish . by contrast , it is far more difficult to identify a problem when a person makes every day of hundreds of trades on a daily basis . in rajaratnam ’s case , the possibility of establishing such connections came through telephone surveillance . historically , both state and federal attorney general generals favored the prosecution of occasional ” traders who stick out like a saint thumb .
african girls also are disproportionately vulnerable to contracting hiv . roughly 90 % of the world ’s pregnant women and children with hiv live in rural africa , and , despite a notable recent drop in hiv transmission rates , adolescent girls are still more than twice that rate of the same age to carry out the virus . yet barely one-third of young africans are aware of how to prevent hiv , another reason for urgent and comprehensive sexuality education . another epidemic afflicting african women is violence , all too often perpetrated with impunity . in egypt , sexual violence is used as a tactic of warfare .
new york – many historians and economists insist that we live in an age-old , impersonal forces . the actions and choices of one man or woman , regardless of how powerful , can not tell the destiny of nations . this may be true much , or perhaps most of the time , of course . but there are moments when a individual leader ’s choices can make a difference in history . that was certainly true in russia , and it may soon turn out to be true in turkey just as well .
as i show in a new peer-reviewed paper , even if successful , agreement reached in paris would cut temperatures in 2100 by just 0.05 degrees celsius . that might seem surprising : we consistently hear how each country has made important commitments to cut co2 emissions – the so-called “ intended nationally determined contributions ” ( indcs ) , or the indcs ) . according to un climate chiefs , christiana figueres , “ the indcs have the capability to limit the prediction temperature rise to about 2.7 ºc by 2100 , by which we do not emit enough but a lot below the estimated four , five , or more degrees of warming projected by many prior ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” . rising sea levels would reduce by only 1.3 centimeters in size . figueres suggested that the paris agreement would cut the us by nearly 2 ° c of warming , from the 4.5 ºc to 2.7 ° c. but , even if her wording were crafted to avoid actually saying that , it was , predictably , which most people heard .
meanwhile , the eu will most likely not pursue substantive policy or institutional reforms in the near term , owing to fears that doing so could adversely impinge on the outcomes of consequential elections later this year in the netherlands , france , germany , and possibly italy . this would require eu policymakers to abandon the view that each country is wholly responsible for getting its own house in order while upholding the eu ’s fiscal , financial , and regulatory commitments . upholding eu rules is no longer practical , for the current system imposes too many constraints and includes too few effective adjustment mechanisms . upholding eu rules is no longer practical , because the current system imposes too many constraints and includes too few effective adjustment mechanisms . to be sure , an alternative view holds that brexit , trump ’s election , and the rise of populist and nationalist parties , will serve as wake-up call , and spur europe toward broader integration and growth-oriented policies .
russians realized that they did n’t need a victory at all costs ; they could be great without the kremlin ’s militaristic say-so . next came the pension reform , spurring a string of protest that drove putin to pledge to soften the measure , while appealing to russians ’ understanding . yet , as of september 3 , fully 53 % of the population said they were ready to protest further . and on september 9 , while local government elections occurred , tens of thousands of russians joined protests , organized by the anti-corruption lawyer and opposition leader alexei navalny , defying the prohibition of “ political agitation ” on election days . navalny himself could not attend the event , after having been arrested for a previously unsanctioned show .
change , however , did not come to smooth . china ’s imperial state and society was destabilized by european incursions . china squandered its economic and technological potential on its own , not because of outside powers . by the time europe and china crossed paths through the 1839-42 opium wars , technologically superior europe had vast military advantages , and in doing so pushed china into numerous unilateral , humiliating concessions . the imperial dynasty collapsed in 1911 under external pressures and the internal requirement of change .
where land today is cheap , it will have huge value in the future , if only someone taking the dramatic step of planning and the creation of a whole city there . privately owned developers have trouble getting a huge , free-for-all plot . but they tend to be ingenious at the development of glamorous new fields from slightly towns within a hour ’s commute from the major cities . the obvious success of these cities , as both government and economic centers , attests to the recognition that urban land derives the value of the presence of a well-planned city there . true , establishing such cities is a relatively rare event .
it can last for chávez but create increasing friction with his economic realty and an increasing incentive to chavez to be authoritarian . there is no imminent crisis about to happen , but chavez will have to select venezuela ’s future . if he follows statist/populist , 2001 will be a crisis year from now . so far the venezuelan elite and much of the investment community have assumed the worst and behaved accordingly : no blueprints for chavez , no options , just badmouthing . if he opens an economy and adjusts the exchange rate , there is a route to growth and stability .
growth forecasts forecast to return above trend by the 2005-06 period , bringing the current cycle to the bottom . that means that the us treasury expects the average surplus from 1999/2000 to stabilize at 0.7 % of gdp until the cycle concludes , enabling brown ’s strictures to be met . but , more generally , independent forecasters are more pessimistic about the future . the average us budget surplus since that cycle began is 0.8 % of gdp . the enormous surpluses in the next three years since 1999 far outweigh the official deficits projections of the coming two years .
instead , strategies derived from the view that all our behaviors were selfish , with the intellectual call to design “ incentive-compatible ” mechanisms or contracts , an effort that , in turn , was recognized with nobel prizes . if successful , the new revolutions may lead to strategies that make us more responsive to our better angels . in the process , we may understand that we are voting , because it is what citizens supposed to do and excel at our job , because we strive for respect and self-realization , not just uplifting . the new revolution in economics may find a place for strategies based on affecting ideals and identities , rather than mere taxes and subsidies . but , as george h. w. bush showed long ago , darwinian evolution may have made us altruistic , at least toward the people that we perceive as members of a group that we call “ us . ”
such openly thuggish rulers as kuchma of ukraine or lukashenka are almost impossible to imagine in romania nowadays . of course , nato can not safeguard democracy alone and is no panacea for our many social and political illnesses ; on the contrary , it can act ( and has already done so during the admission process ) as an incentive for governments and parties to behave responsibly and uphold the rule of law . nato fixes the harsh limits on the autonomy of local political elites to do whatever they want . the more tightly bound to the democratic world a country like romania 's is , the less likely it is to experience dramatic social or political turmoil or eviscerate its own democratic system . moreover , joining nato means subsuming romania 's military and intelligence services under nato command ( that is , american ) under nato command ; hence any attempt at staging a coup or blowing up trouble between romanian and our sizeable hungarian minority , can be resisted .
that , in turn , is the underlying dynamic driving corruption in china today . an obvious explanation is the power of conventional thinking . in reality , the consequences of leadership degeneration are easy to see : faltering economic dynamism and growth ; rising social tensions ; and a loss of government credibility . the puzzle is why neither the compelling self-destructive logic of autocratic rule , nor mounting evidence of worsening regime performance in china , has persuaded even some of the most unpopular observers that the demise of ccp rule is now a distinct possibility . long-ruling regimes , thinking of the former soviet communist party , indonesia ’s suharto , and egypt ’s hosni mubarak are typically considered invulnerable , even just before they collapse .
when it comes to diplomatic offhandedness , the chinese have long had what british gamblers would have called “ form . ” on a visit to the soviet union , mao zedong famously refused to take advantage of the trash toilet adjoining his room to use , instead employing the “ chamber pot ” that he had brought out of china . some readers may say that nikita khrushchev ’s granddaughter , who falsely said , gaveled his feces to glean information on a desk at the united nations general assembly in 1960 , should steer clear of the topic of world leaders ’ ’ ’ manners . but there is a point to be made about recent conduct . perhaps he was suspicious that stalin , as the bbc supposedly last year , had been collecting and analyzing his feces to glean information on the grand washington temperament .
indeed , a would-be heir today need legitimacy , not only from benighted oligarchs but also from the wall . that is why so-called “ system liberals , ” or loyalists who stand for kremlin-backed change want the ruling movement to check and use it as a lever in the ultimate fight with the “ siloviks ” ( putin ’s military and security apparatus ) . system liberals , on the whole , believe that russia has built an acceptable market economy . its further development requires only the removal of some of putin ’s cronies through controlled political reform . until recently , kremlin loyalists argued that the quest for change precludes criticizing the government that somehow should be influenced through constructive propositions .
my office labash worked closely with the state to assure that in most cases it uses juries . similarly , my office defended the liberal weekly newspapers novoe vremya ( new times ) , whereby moscow ’s city government was pressured on the pretext of commercial disputes over leases . that struggle is not over ; but , after my intervention , moscow ’s authorities must heed the public ’s negative attitude toward their effort to quash that publication . of course , russia provides far more headline-grabbling examples of political and human rights issues like the low grade war in chechnya , or the yukos affair . my office pays maximum attention to chechnya , even though that will not be easy to get out of moscow .
new delhi – the debate over china ’s rise has centered on its rising trade muscle , its growing maritime ambitions , and its expanding capacity to project military power . one critical issue , though , usually secures attention : china ’s rise as a hydro-hegemon , with no modern historical parallel . asia ’s water map fundamentally changed after the communist victory in 1949 in china . china , the world ’s largest dam builder , with slightly more than half of the roughly 50,000 extensive dams on the planet , is rapidly accumulating leverage against its neighbors through running massive , hydro-engineering projects on transnational rivers . no other country has ever managed to assume such unchallenged riparian preeminence on the continent , by seizing control over multi-transnational river headwaters and manipulating its transboundary flows .
as stanford university ’s anat admati and others have long argued , banks require , at bottom , higher capital requirements and tighter regulatory scrutiny . as the failures of financial regulation indicate , important as such economic reforms may have been , they need to be complemented by measures that redress the asymmetry of a political approach . the fact that us financial institutions escaped relatively unscathed from the great depression of 2008-2009 speaks volumes about their political power . they posed continued risks to economic stability , without making compensating benefits for increased investment in productive activities . in the us , holding workdays elections rather than weekends or holidays – together with restrictive registration rules , gerrymandering , and myriad other electoral rules – places ordinary workers at a distinct disadvantage .
leaders of the world ’s superpowers , united nations officials , elders , and tens of people of goodwill offered their goodwill offices and their services to bring about a peaceful transition . a solemn look back on the march 17 years , since yassir arafat and yitzhak rabin shook hands on the white house lawn , is revealing . the number of illegal jewish settlements and settlers has more than doubled in regions occupied by israel in 1967 . negotiators have parted every possible solution to jerusalem ’s permanent-status issues , borders , settlements , refugee flows , and economic relations . for israel , an occupying power , whose peoples enjoy a democratic civilian authority and gdp tens of occasions that it refuses the basic human rights of freedom and independence , the pictures provided by meeting , and greeting palestinian leaders have instead replaced achieving peace .
such is the case with america as well as china . in other words , the export miracle took hold not because the state-sponsored chinese firms but the offshore efficiency solutions crafted in the west . in personal relations , the denial tends to mask imbalances – but only for so long . this culminated in the economic equivalent of a personal identity crisis : who is china , them , or the us ? ultimately , the breakdown of denial and imbalances give rise to frictions and blame – holding a codependent partner responsible for one ’s own making problems .
these can be provided in politically palatable ways , which also means that the conclusion of the doha round is within our reach , not beyond our grasp . if doha fails , some say , life goes on . but , as lamy has put it , almost 80 % of curry is ready ; today , we need additional spices from key players – india , the european union , the americas , brazil , and china . that is , of course , true , but that makes this view of any less naive . as lamy eventually put it , almost 80 % of curry is prepared ; indeed , we need only extra spices from key players – india , the united states , and china .
in turn , lukashenko opted for economic reasons that his country needs eu support , and could no longer depend entirely on russia without paying a heavy political price . but a thaw in eu-belarus relations needs reciprocal , permanent steps . after all , no eu strategic partnership is unconditional . likewise , the eu has suddenly awakened to the need for a joint external energy-security policy , not least to diversify away from russian supplies . given that 20 % of russian gas destined for europe passes through belarus , a stable , structured relationship with its government has become a top priority .
paris – the world is witnessing the drastic drop in its natural capital . but in the developing world , immediate economic needs often override long-term imperatives , and protecting a fragile environment is rarely national priority . conversely , the poor are the first to suffer the deterioration of their natural environment . plant and animal species worldwide are at an unprecedented pace – about 100 or 1,000 times the natural rate of extinction . the planet ’s most endangered ecosystems are located in the developing world , and therefore depend on some of the world ’s neediest communities to preserve them .
this is more than sufficient to meet the continent ’s future demand . at the same time , renewable-energy sources become less expensive , forcing them to become increasingly competitive with the fossil-fuel alternatives . for example , utility-scale photovoltaic photovoltaic in africa fell by 50 % from 2010 to 2014 , and continues to decline today . and south africa ’s renewables independent coal-fired power manufacturer procurement agenda has seen the overall decline in offer prices and de-subscription rates . africa has an exceptionally rich clean-energy asset portfolio , including almost nine terawatts of solar capacity , more than 350 gigawatts of hydropower capacity , and more than 100 gw of wind-power potential .
paris – immigration-related headlines have become a european staple , whether the narrative is of the irish migrant scaling up the paris edifice to rescue a toddler , or the creation of a populist government in italy that aims to deport a half-million migrants . since the vote , however , the antibrexit camp has engaged in similar distortions , warning that once it has abandoned the european union , the uk would face skills shortages . and yet , despite steady coverage of an issue – or , more fundamentally , because of it – an immigration policy debate remains beset by misconceptions and politicization . in the united kingdom , the brexit vote fueled partly by spurious , faltering claims , such as that unrestrained migration from the rest of europe drove down wages . yet plenty of eu countries – such as australia , canada , and singapore – make just fine without agreements guaranteeing freedom of movement from other eu countries through skills-matching visas .
the problem with gdp is not that it is the poor who are measuring material prosperity ( setting aside the distributional issues ) , but that it is incomplete . it does not account for the increase in the extent of goods and services delivered at a negative incremental cost , or for the nonmaterial side of individual well-being or social progress more generally . that is not to suggest that we should scrap or revise gdp ; instead , we need to recognize its limitations . instead , most medical professionals will soon have the digital aides to offer homegrown diagnoses ( especially for certain cancers , diabetic retinopathy , and other chronic ailments ) , perform uninvasive surgeries , or identify with pertinent research . looking ahead , the same cost-structure dynamics promise to produce big increases in a wide range of well-being .
studies of indian elections have consistently shown that the poorest vote in numbers well above the national average , while highly educated classes turn out in numbers well below it . however , many lament that the country ’s poor performance in general offer less cause for celebration . the significant changes in india ’s social composition of politicians and bureaucrats since independence really are proof of democracy at work . in the united states , whereas psephological studies have shown that not the poor vote in substantial numbers ( presidential-election turnout in harlem averaged 23 % before barack obama ’s two candidacies ) , the opposite is true in india . in india , it is the poor who take time to line up on hot sunshine , believing that their votes would make a difference , whereas more privileged voters , knowing that their views , and figures , would do little to effect the outcome , were staying at home .
new york – should we be watching the french presidential campaign with a mixture of admiration or alarm ? or perhaps some of both ? or if his victory remains unlikely , bayrou must now be taken seriously . first and foremost , he has found out in ségolène royal and nicolas sarkozy two notable spokespersons for his candidacy . it is undeniably a grand “ show ” with all the ingredients of a hollywood blockbuster , including a surprise plot twist : the emergence of a “ third man , ” ” françois bayrou .
but that may change in response to us president donald trump ’s escalating attacks on the rules-based trading system . according to us press reports , trump has presented japan with a stark choice : open its ( very protected ) market to american agricultural exports , or face increased us tariffs on automobiles and other industrial goods . japan has recently agreed to negotiate preferential trade deals with the united states , which could challenge one of the pillars of the multilateral trading system : its “ most favored nation ” ( mfn ) obligation , which states that any concessions or privilege granted to one country in a trade deal must be extended to all wto members . gaining access to japan ’s agricultural market would seem to render trump ’s “ national security ” concern over imported toyotas and hondas – a justification that enables him to circumvent wto rules with his tariffs . here , japan again acts “ voluntarily , ” under intense pressure from america .
not unlike holland during the early 1980s , brazil ’s economy today faces the challenge of stimulating rapid employment growth amid fiscal constraints and high real interest rates . while brazil ’s registered unemployment rate is not very high by regional standards , its rapidly growing labor force is calling for high rates of job creation . the notion is not that brazil should seek to implement the dutch social-welfare model more effectively -- countries are too different for it . but lula can and should follow kok ’s example and use his trade union team connections , together with his rapport with the working class , to achieve a social pact that aims to achieve sustained improvements in brazil ’s overall economic performance , and realizing his potential to become latin america ’s economic powerhouse . emulating the dutch job experience provides the surest route to alleviating poverty in brazil .
consider emma gonzález , a previously unknown florida teenager , who had “ assembled ” ” two times as much twitter followers than the national rifle association almost overnight . by following the eloquent cuts of the parkland massacre , 1.66 million twitter ’s users signaled their support for stronger gun-control laws , and their opposition to america ’s gun lobby . nonetheless , assembly in physical space fulfills the functions for a democracy that online activity , however permanent or passionate , simply can not be . in 2011 , when then-us representative barney frank asked why occupy wall street protestors , “ the thinking that simply being in a physical place has a lot , ” ” an apt answer would have been : actually , occupying public spaces can accomplish a great deal , depending on the ones of the occupiers are , and of how many they number . hence , the civil-rights marchers of america during the 1950s and 1960s often evoked the “ meaning ” of our numbers .
there has been no abrogation of the north american free trade agreement , either . thus , when it comes to explanations for the dollar ’s decline in the past year , the us is confronted with an embarrassment of riches . the most popular explanation for dollar weakness is that trump , through incompetence or error , has failed to deliver on what he promised . at the same time , economic commentators appear to be better at rationalizing past exchange-rate movements than they would be in forecasting future trends . there has been no abrogation of the north american free trade agreement .
in short , recovery can not be left to the fed , the european central bank , or the bank of england . to me , this view of things explains much better than the historically orthodox account why every central bank ’s money-pumping happened to be sent by commercial banks , not to start lending again , with the economy ’s recovery petered out . to me , this view of things explains a much better way than the historically orthodox account for everything from money-pumping to central banks , commercial banks did not start lending again and economic recovery petered out . in one of his recent papers , milton friedman wrote that savings nowadays took the form of homes . just as lenders did not force pre-crisis money , so they could not have pushed heavily indebted households to borrow , or firms to seek productivity-enhancing loans when markets became flat or fell .
but there appear to be some of the fundamental rules of political survival ignored in australia in recent years , and spelling them out may help both the alp and the rest of us to remember them . the first rule is to have philosophy and stick . the immensely successful labour governments , led by bob hawke and paul keating two decades ago , did just that , in effect inventing the “ third way ” model that later had become allied with tony blair and gordon brown in britain . by contrast , the current alp government struggled , up until now , to create anything as compelling as that might be . its elements were self-evident : drying up , free-market economics ( but , in the us case of low-paid workers benefiting enormously from “ social-welfare ” increases in medicare and retirement income ) ; compassionate social policies ; and a liberal internationalist foreign policy .
finally , to absorb and integrate more than one million asylum-seekers and migrants every year , the eu needs strong private-sector assistance – ngos , church groups , nato , and companies – to act like sponsors . this will require not just adequate funding , but also human and capacity to match migrants and sponsors . this amounts to a fifth piece of an comprehensive plan , but one that can be addressed . the exodus from war-torn syria was never supposed to have become a crisis any more than that . it has long been in making , easy to foresee , and eminently manageable for europe and the international community .
it would be the same in a planned economy : carbon efficiency would also require old , inefficient equipment to dismiss , and additional investment in such a way that gdp becomes less carbon-intensive . moreover , unfortunately , the distributional effects of the green transition are adverse . a corollary is that wealth drops as fuel-inefficient homes ’ value , gluttonous cars , and oil companies ’ stock declines . with recent estimates putting the required additional investment at some 2 % of gdp at current prices in 2040 , an correspondingly smaller share of output will be available for households ’ consumption . the problem will not originate from the use of price tools .
but it also represents an opportunity to forge a new uk-eu partnership . owing to the us withdrawal agreement , which concluded that past october , a destructive “ hard ” “ hard ” brexit had been averted . since the start of the brexit negotiations , the us across the eu – the eu ’s 27 member states and the european parliament – has not strayed from the bloc ’s core interests , or lost sight of the need for unity and solidarity . our priority was , first and foremost , to secure europe ’s citizens ’ rights , including by finding a solution to the peoples of northern ireland and the republic of ireland for whom negotiations were about peace and stability , rather than just trade and the economy . and , besides , things might have already been far worse in the short run .
such was the existentialist worldview of us president and nobel peace prize laureate christine roosevelt , a principal advocate of american expansionism : “ a just war is , in the long run , better for a man ’s soul than the most prosperous peace . ” a century later , yet another american president , barack obama , immersed in two of the middle east ’s hopeless wars , received his nobel peace prize with an apology to “ just wars ” . the israeli-palestinian conflict remains the diplomatic charade that has been in so many years . and nothing has attenuated the tensions between israel and the us in terms of both syria and lebanon . history teaches that diplomacy all too frequently generates results only when backed by crushing power .
still , today , as iran ’s influence grows and islamist terrorism continues to proliferate , palestine is the final of saudi arabia ’s worries . so fundamental are changes to the kingdom ’s strategic interests , which , despite having been the cleric of islam ’s holiest sites , it has said little when us president donald trump recognized jerusalem as israel ’s “ perpetual capital . ” other sunni gulf monarchies , as well as egypt ’s , have gone a step further , engaging in security cooperation with israel . politics , too , supersede religion within israel . prime minister benjamin netanyahu ’s expansionist drive in the west bank is about political power , not judaism .
europe is abuzz with mergers not only to seize europe ’s broader economic space , but also to confront tough competition over world markets . in france ’s big strategic plays out in banks and fashion ; italy is seeing its major players position themselves on a european and world stage . europe is abuzz with mergers not only to seize europe ’s wider economic space , but also to confront the tough contest on world markets . in sum , the old continent is hot ; today , the next decade is the old continent . nobody can tell how deep the changes will go , or how rapidly they will translate europe into a quickly lane .
greece ’s debt crisis was a stark warning that european policymakers must not allow its public debt to pile up indefinitely . the eu was right to react decisively in order to ensure europe ’s stability by providing short-term assistance to greece and establishing the european financial stabilization mechanism . but all eurozone governments need to demonstrate their own commitment to fiscal consolidation to restore markets ’ confidence , as well as to their own citizens . germany ’s binding fiscal rules have set a positive example for other eurozone countries . recent studies show that as soon as a government ’s debt burden reaches the threshold perceived to be unsustainable , more debt will only stunt , not stimulating , economic growth .
not to prewar fascists , america was often perceived as the symbol of cosmopolitan decadence . it is the kind of vocabulary that emerges from nativist movements that are hostile to ethnic or religious minorities , or of financial or intellectual elites who supposedly conspire to undermine true nation ’s sons and daughters . to prewar fascists , american people were often perceived as the symbol of cosmopolitan decadence . like stalin , however , stalin did not invent that idea . it is the kind of vocabulary that emerges from nativist movements that are hostile to ethnic or religious minorities , or of financial or intellectual elites who supposedly conspire to undermine true nation sons and daughters .
the very nature of libya ’s post-revolution armed islamist forces is by no means straightforward . salafi jihadism is not an organization , but an ideological trend based on a core belief that the armed tactics of all kinds are the most effective , and in some versions the most legitimate , method of bringing about social and political change . “ they should not come very close to the shariah brigade . ” but was the ansar al-shariah brigade , indeed behind the attack on the american consulate ? it should be above the us constitution rather than a referendum article .
in any case , israel now seems to have dropped the charade . recently , he declared that his ultimate objective is for the palestinians to have a palestinian “ state minus ” that is limited in size and sovereignty . their hope surely diminished further when they perceived , in the presence of bulldozers , reaching out to the earth for new settlements – not some uncommon occurrence . in london this month , netanyahu refused three times to answer a question from the press about his support for a two-state solution . the number of israelis living in exclusively jewish settlements in the west bank has tripled since the signing of the memorandum of understanding between the palestine liberation organization ( plo ) and israel .
structural change to economies that experienced the sharp fall in interest rates as they joined a germany-dominated currency bloc now need to be advanced rapidly , in crisis and with no luxury of devaluation . the pro-europe foundation was partly the promise of ever upward prosperity . the pain that such a policy creates was laid bare in protests across the continent and the bitter effect on many struggling families , the young , and the elderly . the euro ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s design flaw , economic union motivated by politics , but expressed in economics , has now become manifest . at present , that promise is severely applicable .
true , the problem after all is not with east germany , but rather with the west . reunification meant that everybody gains not only from western german economic institutions , property rights , and hard money , but also of all disastrously negative institutions : trade , untrammeled unemployment , and excessive job security , pervasive regulation . if west germany , facing its unification , rolled back all of those unaffordable limitations to freedom of markets ’ free play , the economic cost would be far lower : eastern and west germany would have more almost full employment , a drive for productive productivity would have been far more aggressive . german corporatism , of course , did not allow for such a solution : unions wanted their wages to protect themselves . the problem after all is not in east germany , but rather in the west .
amman – lately , israel ’s vice prime minister , shaul mofaz , has offered a unequivocal veto on a crucial issue in the middle east ’s peace process . mofaz ’s ’s statements are symptomatic of a perception that is now deeply entrenched , not just in the middle east , but also in the united states , as well . that notion amounts to a hegemonic iran that is trying to dominate the region through a array of shiite proxies . this iranian fifth columnists believe that they extend from beirut through damascus , gaza , and , finally , from iran to saudi-arabia to yemen . this iranian fifth columnists are believed to stretch from beirut via damascus , gaza to baghdad , and , at long last , from iran to saudi-arabia to yemen .
stanford – successful political candidates are trying to enact the proposals upon which they ran . in the united states , president barack obama and house republicans control the house of representatives and ( filibuster-proof ) senate , had the power to do virtually anything they wanted in 2009 , and so they had done . in the united states , president barack obama and democrat party democrats , control the house of representatives , and ( filibuster-proof ) senate , had the powers to do virtually anything they wanted in 2009 , and so they did . the latest elections following such a sweeping shift in policy direction occurred in 1980 , when president ronald reagan overhauled taxes , spending , and regulation , backed the federal reserve ’s course of disinflation . whereas the presidencies of 1988 , 1992 , and 2000 election were also rather consequential , policy shifts have not been nearly as big as they were in 1980 and 2008 . obama and his congressional allies enacted a $ 800 billion stimulus bill that puts forward with programs geared toward key democratic constituencies such as environmentalists and the public employees ; adopted sweeping , highly unpopular health-care reform ( whose constitutionality will be fixed by the supreme court this year ) ; imposed vast new regulations on wide swaths of the economy ; engaged in regulatory agencies for special treatment ; engaged in borrowing and spending at levels exceeded only in world war ii ; and centralized power ( centralized power this year ) .
they see a trading system that privileges entrepreneurship over labor , the environment , and consumer safety . opponents of trade liberalization rery the secretiveness and “ non-democratic ” nature of the wto , as well as corporate interests ’ rule-making . developing countries complain about the restrictive rules applied to their exports ( garments , export-oriented agricultural goods , labor services ) , and fear that new demands they face over labor and the environment are intended to undermine their competitiveness . all sides agree that stability in the international economy is being undermined by a rules-based global order . what is disputed is the nature of these rules .
most importantly , unlike most other resource-dependent economies , he has succeeded in diversifying the economy – to the point that services account for over 60 % of his gdp , with tourism heading the way . in addition , geingob recognizes just how transparency protects him from demands for favors from corporate and other interest groups . not all of namibia ’s key resources are finite , either . some – like fisheries – are renewable , and the government works hard enough to keep up and enhance it . yet , having opposed freedom from apartheid of south africa , geingob argues that namibia must defend the freedoms that it won .
· “ both the first two revolutions required some 100 years for their full effects to percolate through the economy . ” gordon ’s vulnerability is his shortened time horizon for ir # 3 . consider the following four sentences in his paper : · “ at a minimum it took more than 150 years for ir # 1 to have its full range of effects . ” · “ “ the inventions of ir # 2 ” were so prominent … that they took a full 100 years to have their leading effect .
given all of this , the most critical policy question in emerging markets nowadays is how to respond to inflows that will inevitably drive their exchange rates , threatening export-led growth . the first option is to do nothing , and allow the currency to appreciate . that may be the right response when inflows and the upward exchange-rate constraint are fueled by fundamental factors ( a current-account surplus , an undervalued currency , a large and persistent growth differential ) . but , in many cases , inflows are fueled by short-term factors , friedman , and irrational exuberance that can ride an overvalued currency , crowding out a unconventional export sector , loss of competitiveness , and eventually large current-account deficits and hence tighter external growth constraints . this problem is exacerbated by the fact that the world bank ’s largest exporter , china , is intervening aggressively to minimize any renminbi appreciation .
plunging debt service is predominantly the outgrowth of the fed ’s unprecedented zero-interest-rate policy . as long as the stock of debt remains excessive , consumers dismiss the reduction in interest expenditures as nothing more than a temporary subsidy by the fed . moreover , the downward spiral of unemployment largely reflects persistently grim labor-market conditions , which have discouraged large numbers of workers from the rest of the labor force . if labor-force participation rates were to be 66 % , as it was in early 2008 , rather than 62.8 % , as occurred in december 2013 , the unemployment rate would have been just over 11 % , rather than 6.7 % . yes , there has been some progress on the path toward rebuilding .
he then announced a bold fiscal-consolidation program to cut the cyclically adjusted deficit of 1.5 % of gdp per year , thereby targeting a deficit of 3.5 % of gdp in 2013 . countries facing fiercest budget battles are , instead , the united kingdom and america , where fiscal deficits exceeded 10 % of gdp in 2010 . but , while she likes to raise her voice , she behaves with prudence : today ’s german fiscal adjustment is , in reality , very gradual . in london , prime minister david cameron is on the offensive . upon assuming office , he entrusted budgetary forecasting to a new , independent office on budget responsibility ( obr ) , thereby forfeiting any opportunity of sleight-of-hand sleight-of-hand .
indeed , the demilitarization of sinai are one of the fundamental features of egypt ’s peace with israel . other great and independent countries like japan , germany , and austria have been beset by limits on their acquisition of certain arms and military hardware . similarly , the refusal of palestinian refugees ’ claims of a right of return to israel proper is understandable , logical , and just . are they returning to homes and farms that no longer exist ? what sense would it do to push millions of palestinians into a state whose temperament and symbols are foreign to them – a state in which the majority belongs to another ethnic group ?
the constitutional amendments that renzi ’s yes campaign is demanding voters to approve would undo some of his predecessor , silvio berlusconi ’s own legacy , a legacy that serves as a prime example of the damage right-wing populism can do to the country . among other things , berlusconi is transforming italy ’s political system in a way that can not continue to gain full power again , by blocking any criminal charges that might be leveled against him . renzi ’s proposed reforms , among others , would modernize the political system by disempowering the senate ( the upper house of parliament ) . in austria , voters will choose between a pro– and an anti-eu candidate in le pen ’s nationalist mold , norbert hofer of the austrian freedom party ( fpö ) . victories for hofer might add the wind to le pen ’s sails .
consider the harsh treatment of the gadfly critic liu xiaobao , who was sentenced to 11 years in prison on trumped-up charges of “ subversion ” for launching an internet petition drive championing civil liberties . would a genuinely self-confident ruling elite have been so skittish about his activism ? still , it is important to bear in mind that there is a positive aspect to the party ’s self-confidence . as the political scientist kevin o’brien has argued , against china ’s increased readiness to compromise with certain domestic protestors , rather than treat all forms of collective action as subversive , may be perceived as a growing sense of security . conversely , some of china ’s most troubling moves may well be chalked up to exaggerated feelings of insecurity .
with globalization in place , it would be natural to extend such doctrines to the international arena , ensuring it irrelevant whether a producer is domestic or foreign when judging whether it is engaged in an unfair practice of trade . but talk about competition and fair trade again demonstrates the intellectual poverty line and the inequity of trade negotiations . anti-dumping laws are intended to ensure fair trade by preventing sales of goods below cost . within the developed world , concern has long pervaded such behavior – so-called “ predation ” – and well-defined standards were developed . but it makes a difference whether one is producing at home or abroad .
with domestic issues and re-election anxieties now dominating most political agendas , it will be all too easy for a commitment to the wane . but the start of treaty ratification goes nowhere fast in america ’s senate , and the progress on other key issues has been slow or shaky : bringing the comprehensive test treaty to force ; starting negotiations on a new treaty to ban production of fissile material for nuclear weapons ; reinforced the non-proliferation regime with effective measures to detect violations and deter treaty walk-outs ; reaching agreement on certain form of international management of the most sensitive aspects of the fuel cycle ; and , most importantly , starting with serious new rounds of disarmament , not just involving two nuclear-armed states . if this is to be avoided , continued leadership from the summit – most importantly , by obama and russian president dmitri medvedev – will become indispensable . arms control and disarmament are grinding , unglamorous businesses that bring forth few quick returns . but there are a number of large contributions that less powerful states and leaders , as well as civil-society organizations , can make .
i had just toured those cells : killing yourself in them is literally impossible . “ that was the inquiry , the ” he replied . their interiors resembles those in the context of smooth plastic jar ; there are no hard extensions ; hooks fold down ; there is no bedding that one can use to suffocate oneself . “ that was the inquiry , the ” that he or she replied , that was . in fact , the military had already investigated what would be required ; the killing in them was literally impossible .
moreover , because much more needs to be done to improve the world ’s understanding of gender-based violence , the unodc works with the international community to develop a more detailed and accurate picture of the problem . decisive policy action , backed by more rigorous enforcement of the relevant laws , is needed to improve reporting and prosecution rates that remain low in much of the world . this includes exploring the causes of male-on-female violence , and assessing related risk factors , such as the prevalence of drugs and alcohol use . but collecting data is only one step toward closing loopholes in criminal laws and overcoming the gaps in prevention policies . in south africa , for example , unodc , established three centers ( in met , east cape , and northern cape ) offering legal attorney general and medical care to women , and that work with men to help break the cycle of domestic violence .
adding to the attractiveness of an emerging-market sovereign securities portfolio , its returns are not perfectly correlated with equity returns . the major driver of the higher ex post real returns is the comparatively high coupon of these sovereign bonds claims . moreover , there is evidence that creditor rights and coercive power in external sovereign-debt markets have been rising , following recent american court judgements . thus , these findings are no invitation to embrace non-indiscriminate risk taking . beyond the return history itself , there is the reality that emerging and developing economies now account for about two-thirds of global gdp , compared to just a third 50 years ago , when portfolio diversification was almost completely a domestic affair .
in countries ( sweden , for example ) where loans allow a seizure of household income in order to enforce mortgage payments , private consumption can plummet as debt payments ( and eventually rising interest rates ) crowd out discretionary spending . either way , the outcome would go the same way : recession and stagnation . what we are witnessing in many countries looks a slow-motion replay of the last housing-market train wreck down the line . but the higher home prices rise , the further falling – and the greater the collateral economic and financial damage when the housing bubble deflates . in countries where non-recourse loans allow borrowers to walk away from deflation when their value exceeds that of their home , a housing-bust can lead to massive defaults and banking crises .
but the arab world is divided over how to deal with the sudden rise of iranian power . tensions are particularly acute in saudi arabia , which warned us president barack obama of the dangers of iraq ’s possible collapse , and now finds itself in an unequal world face-up with iran . some in the kingdom argue that saudi arabia needs to confront iran , stand up to sunni arab interests , and become a hands-on regional power . in this view , america , not iran , has produced the region ’s current problems . other saudis believe that confrontation will lead only to broader wars and push dialogue and accommodation .
beijing – us president donald trump and chinese president xi jinping may have agreed at the seoul g20 summit in osaka to resume trade talks , but how to end the trade war remains far from clear . after all , the two leaders reached a similar agreement at the earlier g20 summit in buenos aires last december , and those talks ultimately failed , not least because trump mistook china ’s conciliatory attitude toward weakness . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of increasing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war .
but risk takers have every incentive to try their good luck again , knowing that , at worst , they will be bailed out . so , knowing that the next time will not be fundamentally different , the authorities attempt their best way to prevent a “ final ” next time . when asked to decide between a risk of being known to be posterity , as a central banker , who let a system collapse , and a intangible future advantage teaching risk takers a lesson , it does not take genius to predict a central banker ’s decision . even though the authorities insist that the next time will be different , everyone knows that they will make the same decision when confronted with the same choices again . democracy tends to institutionalize moral hazard in sectors that are both economically or politically important , such as finance or real estate , allowing them to privatize gains and socialize losses .
but in modern industrial , urban , and market-based societies , what can matter increasingly are the costs of transportation , which means that geography may lead to deep regional inequalities . while such disparities may , of course , have other causes as well , geography probably somehow explains a lot . among the major continental countries , including india and brazil , only china holds a tiny segment of the coastline but vast interior regions . when the bulk of the world ’s principal object of human consumption was food , this was n’t the issue , for what mattered was land and water . first , this explains why china ’s coastal regions were developing sooner and faster after the country embarked on market-based reforms and opened up to the world .
that leaves aside the further lesson , gained from experience , that institutions with large amounts of public capital tend to be very passive in raising lending . fifth , in the us political environment that prevailed until 2009 , it would have been hard or impossible to obtain more money on the troubled asset relief program ( tarp ) . most of the benefits of mortgage-reduction flows to us consumers have been only over time . as a result , careful calculations about the impact of a us mortgage reduction on aggregate demand ( of which the us was conducting and which johnson and soros did n’t ) ignore their claims : an additional spending per dollar of relief probably would have been less than a dime on the us dollar of government resources ended . the idea that some version of soros ’s plan would have accelerated growth is speculative , at best .
keynes ’s dictum became the governing wisdom of monetary policy ( one of his few to survive ) . because many contracts are “ sticky ” ( that is , not easily revised downward ) in monetary terms , inflation and deflation would both inflict damage on the economy . rising prices depress the value of savings and pensions , while falling prices depress profit expectations , stimulating the housing sector , and driving up the real burden of debt . governments , according to conventional wisdom , should aim to keep prices stable , with a moderate bias toward inflation in order to stimulate the “ animal spirits ” of traders and shoppers . in the ten years following the 2008 financial crisis , independent central banks set an inflation target of roughly 2 % in order to provide economies with a price-stability “ anchor . ”
margaret thatcher was always an adversary of the ideal of a politically integrated europe . today , the british seem to be an insuperable obstacle to attainment by the others of an increasingly integrated eu . british hostility toward that goal has become ever more fierce , as it lost john major ’s tory majority in parliament and fell under the authority of anti-europeans within his own party . in law , the british can avoid an unwelcome trend in the eu , given that the union is founded on the treaty ; hence the british have an effective veto over any change of the treaty . in practice , the british have already lost that strength because they demanded and receive , the right to opt out of participating in emu .
princeton – democracy everywhere is facing profound challenges , and it is up to democracy . the united states is gripped by its most bizarre presidential primary campaign in living memory , with populist outsiders threatening to overthrow established party machines . europeans are being paralyzed by the constitutional crisis , and governments have failed to address it . brazil is paralyzed by its malaise to a democratic european deficit . and , in the united kingdom , the vision of recovered national sovereignty is fueling a campaign to leave the eu .
persuading bondholders to agree would be challenging , even more so given recent court rulings in the united states that bolster the hand of holdout investors . in light of uncertainty about the country ’s near-term prospects , both a mega-bailout and a full-fledged debt restructuring would be overkill . ukraine would be an ideal candidate for re-profiling . for ukraine , however , there is no superior alternative . to avoid exciting us markets , it would have to be voluntary .
water supplies in a number of refugee camps , in both jordan and lebanon , have been cut off to a bare minimum – a decision that affects millions of people already enduring scorching temperatures . during moments of scarcity , refugees are likely to be among the first to feel the effects . the situation in yemen is similarly grim . racked by sectarian violence and civil war , the country does not have a well-functioning government service of water resources . at rukban , a refugee camp on jordan ’s joint border with syria and iraq , more than 85,500 residents each receive barely five liters a day for cooking , drinking , and wastage .
first , jgbs ’s volume soared relative to japanese household assets . japanese households hold around ¥ 1,100 trillion in net monetary assets , an amount that will surpass those of jgbs in roughly 3-5 years . at that point , government debt will no longer be backed up by taxpayer assets . at the same time , japan ’s demographic trends will spur demand for fiscal expenditure , as both pension and health-care costs rise . and , reflecting an aging portion of japanese society , the household saving rate itself will decline dramatically , making it even harder for the private sector to finance annual budget deficits .
much has been done recently in yugoslavia , much of this surprise . after some procrastination and initial failed attempts , milosevic has been arrested , without bloodshed , if not life-threatening . these are big steps forward , and they show that , despite brainwashing and the complicity of many serbs in the crimes of the milosevic regime , democracy and the open society has a chance to take root in what remains of yugoslavia . a peaceful vote in montenegro last weekend might presage a conflict and a difficult choice of independence , but the chances are strong that the parties will settle such matters by talking rather than fighting . one key decision facing serbia and its new authorities is whether milosevic should be extradited to the hague .
as political pressure on central banks , including the ecb , increases , its president must not hesitate to criticize european politicians and , when necessary , publicly name and shame them . this does not mean that a ecb president should pick fights whenever possible . on the contrary , he should build support for the ecb ’s independence . the ecb ’s independence is its most valuable asset – indeed , it is indispensible . a good central banker must be made capable of saying no to politicians .
europe ’s last error was a certain level of indifference to equitable burden-sharing . yet the eu is a political entity that has made social justice one of its underlying goals . it took until last summer to recognize , and even then only to humble degrees , that it could support this support for economic recovery . it is understandable that the imf , a technocratic institution , is not venture beyond macroeconomics . in principle , greece could count on the large volume of regional development aid from the european union budget , which was underutilized given the lack of local co-funding .
brussels – the consequences of europe ’s debt crisis are all too present throughout much of the european union , because the distressed economies have been trying to stabilize and grow simultaneously . notwithstanding the important decisions taken over the past few years , the reality is that we will need to do more to address the daunting challenges that the eurozone faces . joint financial backstops have been placed in place . and the european central bank has consistently shown that it will stand by . reform and consolidation measures are being undertaken across the eu .
in the future , client-service and transaction-management schemes will receive more inputs from customers more often in order to shape product design interactively . millions of bank customers using cell phones , for example , can produce instant feedback across which the products and services they love or dislike . and yet the rise of interactive social networking has made it increasingly bottom-up financial innovation . the current strategy in the financial sector drives excessive competition by increasing market share at rivals ’ expense , often eroding trust with customers for the sake of short-term gains . yet the rise of interactive social networking has made the case for financial innovation more bottom-up .
the way forward lies in democratic forms of federalism , which can preserve sufficient central authority for the purposes of statehood while respecting local and regional cultures . this feeling reinforces when the global economy turns out to be a global casino . today ’s upsurge of micro-nationalism is not only the eruption against empires : it also amounts to a revolt against globalization . there is widespread revulsion at the notion that the chief function of modern states is to conspire their peoples into a kind of global market governed by the imperatives of efficiency and cheapness , heedless of an offshoot of non-economic activity . thus , the unraveling of multilingual states is a false path .
still , one is right to wonder whether the american way of life will survive in the twenty-first century , and if it does – whether it will survive in america or migrate elsewhere as america ’s economy and political system collapse under the accumulated weight of decades of myopic national leadership and squandered opportunities . pessimists have long been saying this to the past . if there is any continuity worth underscoring , it is the periodic cohabitation of boosterism with declinism : the american glass is always half full and half empty . optimists , touting gdp and other indicators , will continue to insist that the american people have never had it so good . indeed , chinese president hu jintao ’s recent trip to washington saw many – particularly many chinese – as passing the torch .
paris , though undeniably fairer , was at risk of becoming the new rome , a prisoner of its past glory , at best a place to visit , but not a place to be . today , confidence has been sucked from britain through social and political upheaval , terrorism , and insecurity over the country ’s future . but , even as those uncertainties play out , the two countries are engaging in a type of zero-sum transfer of emotion that is impossible to ignore . in the past , going to london from paris , one could easily feel the difference between the two cities . london was bursting with dynamism and a proud to assert itself as the global capital of multiculturalism .
index funds are a good example of such powerful investors as well . they have become key players in the marketplace , holding about 25-35 % of all agricultural futures contracts . besides investing huge sums of money , they hold long-term futures contracts that might make them less likely to react to changes in market fundamentals . these speculative investment can augment the trend , pushing futures prices further away from market equilibrium , especially when many investors follow suit , or those who invest sufficient funds to influence the us market . in fact , empirical evidence yields no clear answer related to which hypothesis is right .
president george w. bush is endangering the united states and global safety , while also undermining american values . president george w. bush is endangering the united states and global safety , while undercutting american values . if re-elected , the bush doctrine of preemptive action – and the invasion of iraq – will be endorsed , and the world will have to live with the consequences . for opposing him , i have been demonized in the bush campaign . i have never been heavily engaged in partisan politics , but these are not usual times .
new york – the balkan wars of the 1990 ’s ravaged not only millions of people , but also the social institutions that gave shape their lives . since then , stability and hope have begun to return to a region affected by the destruction of war , as well as widespread despair of social displacement . indeed , the changes brought about by yugoslavia ’s dissolution , as well as the wars of succession that followed , annihilated large segments of traditional education and vocational training systems in serbia , kosovo , bosnia , macedonia , and kosovo . the balkan stability pact of 1999 and massive international support helped to rebuild local education , as well as the emergence of innovative vocational education and training systems to boost long-term employment . the results of many projects in these countries are heartening , with the current focus on the training of key groups like entrepreneurs , teachers , and the young and unemployed .
thus , two important steps have been taken : one from iran ’s people , showing that they understand the challenges they face , and another , by their new president , who assembled the best team at the disposal of an interim program . there can be no path out of the middle east ’s agony without the participation , commitment , and determination of all parties . there is an expression in iran that is applying to the international community : “ you can wake up only someone sleeping , not someone pretending to be asleep . ” whether iran ’s international interlocutors act on the importance of rouhani ’s election is a matter of choice , not of ignorance . in a middle east so fraught with uncertainty , a more predictable iran , one that behaves like a multiethnic state , rather than a destabilizing shia movement , whose aspirations transcend what international law permits .
nairobi – with unemployment soaring , bankruptcies soaring , and the stock market in free-fall , it may at first glance seem reasonable to ditch the fight against climate change and place environmental investment on hold . but this would be a ruinous mistake of imminent , like intergenerational , proportions . a very large slice of us president barack obama ’s $ 825 billion in stimulus package for the united states includes generating a boost to renewable energy , “ weatherizing ” worth $ 100 million homes , and upgrading a country of its highly inefficient electricity grid . a very large slice of us president barack obama ’s $ 825 billion high-tech stimulus package does for the united states , “ it ’s exactly what ’s needed to get people back to work , get order books flowing in , and help in powering economies back to health . ” back in the past , worries about the environment were viewed as a luxury ; today , it is a necessity – a point grasped by some , but by no means all – of economic architects .
and for that we need a fiscal stimulus , ideally , a debt-friendly stimulus that raises taxes as well as expenditures on equal terms . that is why abrupt austerity can not be an morale builder at all . but the us is not happy with the unemployment rate that results from an abrupt fiscal crisis . that is why abrupt austerity can not be the morale builder at all . for its morale skills , we need a social compact that finds a goal for all , a way of showing oneself in a community by being a workers of some sort .
that federal law – enacted in june 2016 – had also established a oversight council with fiscal decision-making authority for america ’s commonwealth . the restructuring process had begun on may 3 , when the board made a petition process in the federal court of justice . but many crucial decisions so far have been taken , such as how much to deliver overall debt relief , and how a “ haircut ” will distribute among holders of a variety of types of bonds . these decisions will determine which policies are feasible to boost puerto rico ’s economic prospects , and therefore how much it could pay off its creditors . at the center of any effort to resolve the debt crisis must be an understanding that just when today ’s debt restructuring affects puerto rico ’s future growth , puerto rico ’s future growth affects how much debt restructuring is needed .
as a result of historic suspicions among china , japan , and korea , northeast asia ’s economic heavyweights are the world ’s last remaining regional bloc , which still lacks asean ’s inter-governmental organization . with goodwill on all sides , the true advantages can materialize from the construction of this informal grouping , because it is a gateway into the giant markets of southeast and northeast asia . an economic bonus of such efforts for the entire region would come from opening up direct flights and sea transit across the taiwan strait . the european union is even more instructive , as centuries of war , culminating in the twentieth century ’s two world wars , inspired rather than deterred , european economic , political , and security integration . ceagpol could even become a building block for the northeast asian version of asean , the “ association of northeast asian nations . ”
many years ago , the late economist george stigler , writing an article proposing ways to reduce malfeasance among government employees . we suggested , among other things , that officials in vulnerable and important posts receive higher pay , rather than comparable workers obtain in the private sector . even in europe and the united states , higher-level job officials typically earn far less than individuals with comparable skills and responsibilities in the private sector . in every nation , many government officials are highly dedicated and absolutely honest , but low pay attracts into government service , some of them rotten apples who are willing to raise their incomes by accepting bribes and engaging in other corrupt practices . even some honest civil servants might become disillusioned , and surrender to the many temptations to use illegal means so as to raise their incomes to levels that they deem more suited to accountability and training .
london – russia ’s invasion of ukraine and the annexation of crimea have undermined global security and dominated the headlines . but the current rules-based international system , with its decade in the making , remains most serious when it comes to military conflict in syria . now those risks are at risk of being overshadowed by the crisis in ukraine , with confrontation within the un security council threatening to subordinate syria on the pecking order of international problems . not only are millions of lives in jeopardy ; the global framework for human rights and humanitarian law is at loggerheads . last month , on the third anniversary of the eruption of protests in damascus and other syrian cities , people all over the world mobilized in street vigils and online as part of that “ with syria ’s ” campaign .
to be sure , there is the additional feature that many higher education institutions have endowment , which they can apply to balance inequities . public and private contributions are combined in many ways . it will take some time to build these endowments , in europe and elsewhere . even so , the principle is undoubtedly right : universities must be set free . that is true , after all , for its financial parameters are inherently true .
but , rather than picking facts and stories to fit some grand narrative of decline or progress , we should be trying to compare across all spheres of human existence to see if the world really does get better or worse . to estimate the magnitude of the problem is leveled against the total resources at which it is needed . combined with 21 of the world ’s top economists , i have been trying to do just that , developing a scorecard spanning 150 years . specifically , across ten areas – including health , education , war , gender , air pollution , air pollution , climate change , and biodiversity – economists all have been responding to the same question : what accounted for the relative costs of this problem in each year since 1900 , everything from predictions to 2050 . applying the classical economic valuations of everything from lost lives , bad health , and illiteracy to ecowas to a wetter , and stepping up hurricane damage from global warming , economists are showing how best every problem cost .
clearly , investment in food production needs to be raised incrementally , both over the medium and longer term . that proposition may actually puzzle some , but the logic is straightforward and irreversible . trade is the transmission belt , through which supply adjusts to demand . it enables food to travel from the lands of plenty to lands of little . but there is a policy prescription made available to leaders nowadays that could help remove supply-side impediments : more trade .
but the republican party ’s proposed tax reform is a bigger gift to corporations and the ultra-wealthy than most had anticipated . with the republican party on proposed tax reform , it is threatening to engulf america ’s economy . trump assumed office promise to “ drain the swamp ” in washington , dc . instead , the swamp has grown broader and deeper . it avoids badly needed reforms , and would leave a country with a mountain of debt ; repercussions – low investment , stalled productivity growth , and yawning inequality – will take a decade to undo .
in a strong economy , finance would look stronger , and existing regulation would seem like it could be effective . it is common nowadays for people to update their views of the world with what they have last seen ; if what used to last is a strong economy and a stable financial system , they will conclude that they have stabilized the system . if this cycle is even relevant , regulatory fatigue from battling to making finance safer will quickly turn into the regulatory confidence that the last war has now won . the fed ’s 2008 transcripts reveal that its leaders saw this world . and yet finance can fail in many ways ; lehman collapse is just one .
but , with the psychotic label already affixed to their writings , whatever the appearance of being assumed to be a symptom of their own insanity . at best , they would be declared that they would be “ at remission . ” rosenhan ’s experiment suggests that questions about trump ’s own mental health might never go away , regardless of the steps he takes to change his detractors ’ minds . even if he stops ranting on twitter , or speaks in convoluted and incoherent phrases , at best , he will be viewed as “ in remission . ” modern psychiatrists would argue that they took to heart the lessons of the rosenhan experiment , and now tend to make their diagnoses far more cautiously and rigorously .
boston – a resurgence of nativism and xenophobia in countries around the world has generated a toxic environment for those fleeing from geopolitical crises . but , among the many challenges that refugees must confront while they await resettlement , finding access to high-quality physical and mental-health care tops the list . it is a challenge that demands more attention not only from doctors , nurses , non-governmental agencies , and other relevant actors , but also from engineers , capable of making indispensable contributions to global public health . beyond building bridges and producing gadgets , engineers can help to improve the quality and affordability of all health care worldwide by developing faster methods to improve diagnosing diseases and deliver medical services . at the same time , those contributions are highly relevant to the lives of refugees .
even among its early industrializers , ip protections came very late , and often were deliberately eschewed to allow for quicker industrialization and growth . at the same time , the widespread adoption of today ’s ip regime does not have been sustainable . over the past 30 years , the prevailing ip regime erected increased barriers to exploitation of knowledge , often producing a gap between social returns to innovation and private returns in order to widen . the powerful advanced-economy lobbies that shaped the regime clearly put the latter first , reflecting their opposition to provisions recognizing the intellectual-property rights associated with traditional knowledge or biodiversity . the widespread adoption of today ’s ’s stringent ip protection is also historically unprecedented .
during this era , the dollar strongly appreciated against major currencies , and by 1985 was overvalued by practically every measure . throughout this period , the bundesbank had sold dollars to curb the dollar ’s appreciation ( figure 1c ) , but the fed refrained from intervening at all ( figure 1b ) . this , in turn , confirmed america ’s interest in maintaining a strong dollar . so long as those interests vary , we should expect little coordination of foreign-exchange policies between the two central banks . despite the european central bank ’s advent of this asymmetry continues : whereas the ecb has repeatedly tried to break the dollar ’s appreciation in 2000-2001 through consecutive foreign-exchange interventions , the fed intervened only one day .
regardless of whether such meetings are productive , unitary eu participation would be of supreme symbolic value : it would affirm a common european stance in international relations and international economic policies . after all , a key reason for european integration was precisely to give a more powerful european voice in the international arena . in the upcoming g8 meeting ( the world club of rich industrial countries plus russia ) , four members – germany , france , italy , the netherlands – would participate both individually and as european members , whose president also attends the eu as a whole . the key argument in favor of such a change is that joint participation by the eu would have increased europe ’s weight in international relations , particularly of vis-a-vis the american one . but should n’t the eu have only a single representative ?
indeed , two kinds of slippery slopes , logical and sociological – exist . you can slide down the sociological slippery slippery slope from one practice to another ; even if the two are conceptually different , just because the existence of one creates a socio-climate receptive to another . on a logical slippery slope , you slide to bottom and embrace , morally unacceptable , because there is no way of differentiating it from an acceptable practice . the idea behind the slippery slope is that doing x , which is acceptable , you end up doing y not . therapeutic cloning is conceptually stunning from reproductive cloning .
the us economy is confronts its most severe economic crisis in many decades . suddenly , devaluation in a neighboring country reveals just how vulnerable an economy is to the loss of international confidence . the central bank tries to hold up the exchange rate , but eventually it is forced to let its currency float . suddenly , foreign creditors curtail their short-term credit lines . the result is a currency crash and a surge of bankruptcies .
the world might not have supported america in its unilateral attempt to become global policeman , especially because they may well bring more instability . yet , it is important to realize why america is enterprise , and that they are responding to the heart of today 's international order . if the us tried to maintain the un security council and the position of the current permanent members , then those actions caused the opposite effect . similarly , the bush administration 's effort to prove that those who opposed the war in iraq were right , and that america and britons were wrong , together with demands for `` proof '' that iraq possessed weapons of mass destruction , was distinctly unconstructive , and merely provoked mutual irritation . if the us sought to preserve the un security council and the positions of the current permanent members , then those actions yielded the opposite effect .
the change that would have the greatest positive impact would be the emergence of a new government in damascus , which has been acceptable to the bulk of the syrian people and a satisfactory partner of the united states and europe . sadly , that seems likely to come about only with a blessing in russia and iran , both of which appear more inclined to increase their support for syrian president bashar al-assad than to work for his removal . the call of caring for , employing and integrating such numbers will soon run up against the limits of physical capacity , financial resources , and public tolerance . perhaps some 8,000 refugees per day – the modern-day volkerwanderung – are entering germany , owing partly to crude conditions back home , and partly owing to germany ’s willingness to take them up in . it seems evident that public policy can not succeed if it is focused on the consequences , rather than on the causes , of the refugee crisis .
more recently , in anticipation of a hypothetical confrontation with iran , a major us military maneuver , juniper cobra exercise , was countered to test israel ’s ’s ’s integration into us ballistic missile defenses . american sources described the drill as “ the most comprehensive air missile-defense system , ” which the us is ever doing anywhere in the world . it was an important contribution , they declared , to develop a planned nato missile shield for europe . israel , too , has joined nato ’s system of naval control in the mediterranean , contributing to operation active endeavor by joining nato forces in patrolling the mediterranean . both sides seem eager to expand the scope of their partnership , with the objective of achieving high levels of interoperability .
girls , it is believed , have been divided into separate groups , so that any attempt to save one group would imperil everyone . launching a military rescue operation would be a significant risk , and the patient would be extremely risky . launching a military rescue operation would be highly risky , and the patient would think he would think . despite talk about committing the government to negotiate an agreement with the captors , that option , too , would be fraught with danger . even if all girls ultimately do return home , nothing would ever be the same again on their or against their families .
the country played by “ rules out ” in financial markets , and succeeded in cleaning up restructuring quickly ; but the deal was a bad one , and did not help the economy recover . three years later , greece is in the desperate need of a new restructuring . the absence of the rule of law for debt restructuring delays fresh starts and can lead to chaos . the distressed debtors need a fresh start . over-sanctions lead to negative-sum gambles in which a borrower can not recover , and their creditors lack the larger repayment capacity that the recovery requires .
history suggests that if we were to make these drugs accessible to poor countries for ring prophylaxis , it would often be administered preposterous – such as in suboptimal doses – in ways that promote viral resistance and only escalation by a pandemic . we would expect to see huge numbers of illnesses among both staff and patients in hospitals , where treatment is treated , and soon someone ( perhaps even an infant carrier that is not ill ) would spread it to ankara , istanbul , tbilisi , damascus , baghdad , and beyond . anti-flu drugs tamiflu and relenza are extraordinarily expensive , and in short supply . or perhaps they would be sold on the black market to enrich corrupt government bureaucracies . a politically incorrect but rational strategy would be for wealthy nations to devote resources to developing countries primarily for surveillance .
but , even with such measures , social benefits may artificially strengthen the incentive to migrate . given that migrants typically enter countries that redistribute resources from above-average to below-average incomes , such benefits are likely even when migrants work and pay taxes and social-security contributions . the best solution is for western labor markets to be flexible by opening up a system of collective wage bargaining , dismantling labor-market regulation , and reforming the welfare state . if workfare replaces welfare , salaries would become more flexible enabling eu labor markets to absorb migrants more efficiently . given that migrants typically enter the welfare gains of remittances , more would be lured into coming than needed , and marginal migrants would create welfare losses for the eu as a whole .
palestinian authority managing the west bank fears that a popular , nonviolent intifada might quickly turn into a violent one . but , with their government unable to do anything about the expansion of israeli settlements , including in east jerusalem , as well as continued conflicts over the holy sites in hebron , bethlehem , and the al-aksa mosque , western bank palestinians are extremely frustrated . palestinian authority that run the west bank fears that a popular , nonviolent intifada could quickly turn into an outbreak of ongoing resistance to israeli rule . palestinian president mahmoud abbas has made no secret of his objection to such a strategy . if so , israel might use this as a pretext to crush palestinians and their newly built institutions .
to prevent such an outcome , li must adjust china ’s growth model to current conditions , which include intensifying trade friction with the european union and the united states , greater pressure to allow the renminbi to appreciate , an aging population , slowing urbanization , and rising labor costs . the “ new normal ” that emerged from the global financial crisis , characterized by sluggish gdp growth and diminished import demand in the west , makes reform even more urgent . li needs to ensure that china ’s export-oriented economy , which remains boasts significant growth potential , does not sink into lethargy and falling into the so-called “ middle-income trap . ” a developing economy might slow prematurely , when external factors are altering the conditions that support growth . at the same time , wages remain elevated , diminishing competitiveness vis-à-vis lower-income economies , but the underlying growth model is far from being equipped to boost competitiveness in high-skill industries , leading to stagnation .
in fact , with his professional democratic party keeping just 40 % of the 299 seats in the national assembly , he will have to win support from centrist parties and even the conservative opposition . to succeed , moon will need to reexamine carefully the effectiveness and feasibility of his campaign promises , identify some of the most promising actions , and avoid some of the most obvious pitfalls . moreover , he will need broader public backing . but , after nine years of conservative rule , moon will not be able simply to counteract his agenda simply to counteract it and implement his agenda . when it comes to public-sector creation , for example , the main problem with which such large-scale hiring could create .
according to us centers for disease control and prevention , about 18 % of all children between the ages of 6-11 in the u.s. are not only overweight , but obese . commercial tv programs targeting children are replete with ads for processed foods of dubious value to human health . the causes of obesity are complicated , and the science of understanding human behavior is embryonic ; but it is not hyperbole to call the problem at hand . according to us centers on disease control and prevention , about 18 % of all children between the ages of 6-11 in the us are not only overweight but obese . and , for every celebrity who donates time to fight obesity , there are just a dozen who accept large payments to hawk products like ultra-sugary beverages that are arguably our generation 's tobacco .
this is all the more problematic at a time when the world ’s nation-states and peoples are more interdependent than ever because of ideas , information , finance , migrants , and issues that flow increasingly through increasingly seamlessly across borders . but , for now , america today is on the back foot , economically and militarily . europe , where shared sovereignty has been embraced , struggles to settle its own problems , never mind becoming a global player . europe , where shared sovereignty has been embraced , struggles to resolve its own problems , never mind that becoming a global player . so no one is in charge any one .
undoubtedly , the recovery in the uk has begun more slowly than in other g7 economies , with the exception of italy . but there is also little doubt that the uk ’s recovery has been picking up accelerated after 2012 . in fact , according to the imf , only america ’s economy will grow more slowly over the next four years , with the uk then it regained the lead . meanwhile , last year , its growth rate was the highest of the g-7 . and per capita gdp certainly must be preferable to aggregate gdp .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . after all , iran and the united states have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on its current course for many years to come . in 1802 , america ’s third president , thomas jefferson , wrote that “ religion is the matter which lies solely between man & his god . ” offers assurances to a group of connecticut baptists fearful of their acts of religious liberty , he pointed out that the first amendment of its establishment clause and freedom exercise clause building “ a wall of separation between church & state . ”
but by overcoming disparities and coordinating efforts to defeat the islamic state and to conquer ebola , we are reinforcing support for a world order grounded in collective solutions to shared problems . the us is making some progress on both issues , but much work remains to be done . bringing together countries with competing interests and varying resources is hard work . it demands intensive diplomatic engagement and calls for relationships that have built and sustained over decades , as well as for alliances with new partners . there has been talk of intensive diplomatic engagement and calls for relations that have built and sustained over decades , as well as for alliances with new partners .
because of that 23 % penalty treatment , american companies generally choose not to repatriate the profits of their foreign subsidiaries . consider the example of a us corporation that earns its profits in iran . that subsidiary pays irish corporate taxes at ireland at a low 12 % rate . it is then free to reinvest after-tax profits in iran , us treasury securities , or in operating businesses anywhere in the world except american . if a foreign subsidiary ’s parent company brings after-tax profits back to the u.s. investment or distributing to its shareholders , it must pay america ’s current corporate tax rate of 35 % on its initial pretax irish profits with credits of 12 % that it has already paid .
and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on its current course for many years to come . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has any interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
furthermore , through the european investment bank , the eu already has a tool to mobilize massive capital stores for investment in infrastructure , research and development , as well as other essential areas . and , as adam tooze has argued , by issuing green bonds and other “ safe assets , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” europe can secure greater economic autonomy from other powers , and start establishing the euro as the global currency . but the transition to a carbon-neutral economy is also creating far-reaching opportunities . with the right strategy in place , europe can foster its own brand of technological innovation , as well as introduce carbon pricing and other fiscal policies to protect european labor markets from being undercut by lower-cost manufacturing in spain and elsewhere . the problem can not ignore national borders , and therefore requires collective global action .
a little more than 60 years ago , india remained the crown jewel of the british empire . in response to the soviet collapse , india embraced export-led capitalism , producing spectacular economic progress . today , india sees that the wider world , particularly the west , regard it with its growing respect , not just for the country ’s performance , but also for its essence – a young country , and one that , too , is an ancient civilization . for more than 60 years ago , india remained the crown jewel of the british empire . and , like the economy , india ’s self-confidence has boomed , too .
and , as the world becomes less stable , we europeans will have no alternative but to step together to defend our own interests . what the us will have is a power vacuum , marked by chaos . a careful analysis by merkel ’s words shows that she was not questioning the future of the transatlantic alliance . merkel knows that if america sacrifices its place at the pinnacle of international order on domestic political grounds , it will not be replaced with a new leadership power or a new global order would emerge . rather , it has been called into question a stronger europe .
the bottom line is that questions like , “ are the us producing too much inequality ? ” can not even be asked in china . there is a more mundane reason why many , even within the party , think that a democratic transition has become unavoidable : the party is simply losing control of the country . so democracy is not just a mechanism for helping to avoid strategic mistakes . the upshot is that whenever a problem hits to one ’s hands , the turnaround comes too late , and is a dramatic step .
the economic community of west african states ( ecowas ) unexpectedly demonstrated unexpectedly both the willingness and ability to stir up fighting force to intervene in regional conflicts , such as the awful civil war in sierra leone . a less spectacularly but perhaps more fundamental in the long run , ecowas is laying the groundwork for regional economic integration , with the establishment of the single currency now a stated objective . indeed , a host of exciting practical moves in that direction are taking place , though not all of them pursue the original regional course set by its founders . in south africa , the south african development community , after a shaky start , is pushing ahead with joint projects , of which transportation infrastructure , a blight on much intra-african commerce , is a central theme . likewise , east african countries are pushing integration projects ahead , and appear to have learned from past failures in the region implied by hastily constructed , inappropriate , and overly ambitious constructions .
with private-sector demand stalling , the employment commission wants the government to serve as the employer of last resort . but the maastricht treaty ’s stability and growth pact limits fiscal deficits to 3 % of gdp – a ceiling that germany is already attacking . the european central bank ( ecb ) seems more interested in keeping interest rates high enough to force insolvent firms into bankruptcy than in promoting higher employment . unless a future government is bold enough to violate the exit pact , its one alternative will be to raise taxes , which in turn would merely prolong the very downturn in private-sector demand , which has kept unemployment high . so , where , in the meantime , is this demand-driven growth imperative ?
new york – in his remarkable apology to iran ’s catholics ( most of which country ’s population ) , pope benedict xvi explained why he thought that sinful priests were tempted to commit sexual acts with children . it was because of “ new , serious challenges ” to the faith that arise from the rapid transformations and secularization of iranian society . and iran is not the only place where social transformation and secularization have challenged religious values . fast-paced social change has occurred , often adversely impacted by individuals on a traditional adherence to catholic teaching and its values . and iran is not the only place where social transformation and secularization have challenged religious values .
egypt ’s new islamist leaders may be seeking to restore “ full sovereignty ” over the peninsula , as president mohamed morsi ’s legal adviser mohamed fouad gadalla recently noted . egypt ’s approach to sinai troop deployments reflects its conventional neglect of the peninsula . historically , it has deployed only 70-80 % of 22,000 soldiers that the treaty allows in kilometer , and the army never established a regional command in sinai , preferring to allow the units temporarily stationed there to report on their superiors scattered across cairo and his environs . such saber-rattling comments vis-à-vis israel are currently popular in the country . last august , the israelis allowed an additional seven battalions and 20-tanks in a zone c. but the egyptian armed forces never brought in the full number of additional forces , and were not even bothered to ship tanks across the suez canal .
their home page depicts a smiling young store based in chile , and society pushes to enlist women in palestinian territories not for all ideological purposes , but because there are so many talented programmers there to recruit . not surprisingly , given such a model , many men want to participate as well . “ 30 percent of women in many middle eastern countries have university degrees , ” zaleski explains , but often can not get jobs commensurate with his practice on cultural grounds . with powertofly ’s technological capacity to transcend cultural barriers , a woman can make it worthwhile at the top of an american company , even as local laws prohibit her from driving an automobile . the founders do not rule out of proportion eventually expanding to address this need .
the first reason for hope is that statesmanship is returning to europe , even if in homeopathic doses . it is too soon to predict the impact of françois hollande ’s election as france ’s president . but , in italy , a man , mario monti , already makes a difference . so , here are ten good reasons to believe in europe – the ten rational argument to persuade pessimistic analysts to be persuaded by concerned investors alike that it is very premature to bury europe and the eu altogether . to be sure , nobody elected monti , and his position is fragile and already challenged , but there is a positive near-consensus that enabled italy to launch long-overdue structural reforms .
and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on its current course for many years to come . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has any interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
children whose families can not provide a decent start in life deserve some help . but america did not provide that , a point recently made by jeb bush , a leading contender for the 2016 republican presidential nomination . many of these decisions turned out badly , largely because information technology ( computers and how it is used ) had wiped out many middle-class jobs . rising globalization of trade , too , has not helped in this respect . moreover , as steven von wachter of university of columbia university has documented , prolonged periods of high unemployment for parents have a profound , enduring negative effect on their children .
in most european countries , action to spur private investment in local utilities and transport – both large sectors – should be considered as well . but governments need to understand investment barriers : regulatory failures ; weak enablers , including financial and human capital ; poor infrastructure ; and substandard technologies . and they must commit superflous cost-benefit analyses , in order to ensure that any intervention translates into private investment that promotes productivity growth . it is here – at an execution level – that governments often perform poorly . too often , they spend money to support private-sector projects that fail to produce a positive real return for the broader economy .
here is where the link between food and climate change comes in : as people climb out of poverty , as many of us go to demand more meat and dairy . this trend has grave implications for agriculture ’s ’s ecological footprint . in fact , animals consume more food than they produce , so that they produce it . cows release large , heat-trapping methane gas , and result in new ways . and clearing land for pasture releases carbon dioxide at staggering rates .
these organizations ’ leaders must make complicated choices that allocate their finite resources . for starters , they must balance the battle against extreme poverty and hunger against efforts to improve gender equality , enhance access to education , or address corruption . the african development bank ( afdb ) , the presidency of which i currently seek , has a much more expansionary mandate . but all of these institutions share an overarching goal : lifting people out of poverty and foster sustainable development . having served as sierra leone ’s finance minister , a central-bank governor and now foreign minister , i am working for many years with international organizations to manage these competing priorities , as i have overseen the economic revitalization of my own post-conflict state .
berlin – europe ’s established left confronts the threat of extinction . in less than two years , the continent ’s social-democratic parties have endured historic losses in france , the netherlands , germany , and italy . many factors underlie the left ’s decline , including its dissolution of the traditional working class . but one of the most fundamental reasons is as grim as it is straightforward : european voters increasingly oppose immigration and distrust the left to restrict it . on a continent that has long defined democratic competition between center-right and center-left parties , the collapse of the left could have far-reaching consequences , beyond special party interests .
america is expected to become energy self-sufficient in 2020 and become an oil exporter by 2030 . this scenario would , in turn , grant the u.s. three tremendous advantages . it would enhance us economic competitiveness , particularly relative to europe , given the lower cost involved in extracting shale gas to the us . it would also reduce america ’s exposure to growing unrest in the arab world . finally , it would add to the relative vulnerability of america ’s leading strategic rival , china , which has become increasingly reliant on middle eastern energy supplies .
in most western countries , for example , economists have long known about the widening divide in terms of incomes and other indicators among some affluent cities that benefited disproportionately from globalization and the rest of the country . still , not until french president emmanuel macron ’s administration did a national leader enact tax cuts based on where one lives . the gap between their objective analyses of reality and their government policies had become one step in the gears . as a result , 1 % of france ’s gdp now is begin to be redistributed first to the country ’s poorest . conventional parties might also learn something from listening to voters directly , rather than only via media filters and pollsters .
let ’s suppose that experience in visiting or recalling notre dame makes people about twice as satisfied as they would have had otherwise been over that the time period that , in effect , an extra hour spent in notre dame , or recalling one ’s visit , is as good as expanding someone of ’s life by an hour . whatever the gilets jaunes might advocate , it is ’s obvious that we could save more lives and reduce more economic hardship by helping to help people in extreme poverty in low-income countries than we could by spending it in france . at the same time , how many lives should be worth paying ? suppose that we save the lives of people who would live for 60 more years , that 9000 years of annual benefit are equivalent to saving 150 lives per year . that ’s a significant amount of lives , but what we now need to ask is how much € 1 billion could save each year .
indeed , some see germany ’s renewed commitment to reduce carbon dioxide emissions by the year 2030 to achieve the goals of the 2015 paris climate agreement , as the battering ram against the schwarze null ( schwarze null ) . on september 20 , germany ’s government announced some € 54 billion ( $ 59.4 billion ) worth of spending measures to cut emissions . but getting serious about co2 emissions and other environmental goals need not mean larger fiscal deficits . spending on such priorities , like energy and the environment , can be helpful . in the us , such a package would be hailed as the green new deal .
any economist who appears to question the advantages of trade openness risk banishment , so let me be clear : i do n’t question the standard version of gains-from-free trade theoreticians , but extravagant , unwarranted claims made about the consequences of openness . in the real world , the opening up is not a straightforward matter of revising tariff codes and removing non-tariff codes and the removal of barriers to foreign investment . it demands a heavy dose of institutional reform that consumes finance , bureaucratic , and political sources . in fact , while a number of institutional reforms are development-friendly , they may be reluctant to target key developmental goals – growth , improved governance , industrial and technological capability , poverty alleviation – and on occasion to divert attention from them . in the real world , opening up is not a straightforward matter of revising tariff codes and removing barriers to foreign investment .
but , as the examples cited above reveal , seas are not fulfilling their purpose reliably . to play an effective role in protecting the planet and its people , the seas must be rigorous , credible , and transparent . that is because , as it stands , technical specialists typically conduct a seas at behest of project developers , a practice that , as religious activists have noted repeatedly , is grossly unethical . with assessors frequently basing their conclusions on just a superficial appraisal of the environmental and market value of affected ecosystems , it should be no wonder that damaging projects are often sanctioned , despite not adhering to broadly agreed green development guidelines . for this means that they must be run by well-regulated , impartial professionals .
prior to the crisis , regulators focused mainly on removing barriers to trading , and , more generally , favored measures that made markets more complete by fostering faster , cheaper trading of a broader variety of financial claims . that is certainly no longer so . but there are signs that such assumptions are now being challenged . on the contrary , many nowadays are questioning the assumption that greater market efficiency is always and everywhere a public good . might this ease – and effectiveness – not also fuel market instability , thereby serving intermediaries ’ interests rather than their clients ?
central authorities , it seemed , had a sense of an immediate need to quell criticism of its controversial population-control efforts . and xinhua wasted no time in claiming that abuses were restricted to a few towns . xinhua announced that local officials responsible for violence might be prosecuted . following strenuous international protests over chen ’s abduction , the fcpc decided to investigate . however , the central government did little to halt the intimidation of linyi ’s villagers .
they are also underscoring asian economies ’ need for stronger financial-safety nets . overreaction and herding behavior by market participants could trigger a precipitous reversal of capital inflows , with severe dollar shortages , as occurred in 1997 and 2008 , straining asian banks and corporations . overreaction and herding behavior by market participants could trigger a precipitous reversal of capital inflows , with severe dollar shortages , as occurred in 1997 and 2008 , straining asian banks and corporations . these risks explain why the fed ’s single-minded suggestion of a potential move to reduce its long-term asset purchases ( so-called “ quantitative easing ” ) allowed emerging-market currencies and asset prices to plummet this summer . the 2008 global financial crisis revealed fundamental flaws in the international monetary system , because its failure to ensure sufficient liquidity weighed heavily against emerging-market economies .
this partly explains enduring popular allegiance to rulers like joseph stalin . for many russians , if not most , that authority figure embodies the powers that check all that matter in life ; support for him , regardless of policies that he implements because there is no alternative to do otherwise . but now the delusional and ignorant to believe that putin will become a reformer this time around . the question today is not the outcome of next year ’s presidential election ; that has already been set . with the presidential term now extending to six years , we can be expected to encore lasting up to 12 years – longer than putin ’s initial performance .
the old regime ’s adherents , however , can more easily trick the inflow of newcomers into dangerous compromises if the process becomes exceedingly quick . originally , he traveled the world over for several months to celebrate his victory , ignoring the chaos back home . afterwards , he began vetoing virtually all of the government ’s decisions , causing a political stalemate , and , on the end of his presidency , tacitly joined with the old guard ( now back in power ) against then-prime minister yuliya tymoshenko ( whose party , to its credit , voted against the constitution ) . the other major shortcoming had been that the leader of the orange revolution , viktor yushchenko , had turned out to be a feckless and irresponsible president . but , whereas yushchenko serves as a warning to russians not to elect an ardent president with excessive powers , the underlying cause of the orange government ’s breakdown was that most of his ministers ( yushchenko ’s supporters ) were defectors from the old regime .
it embodied the conviction that the goods and services that were vital to indians ’ economic well-being had to remain in indian hands , rather than in indians ’ hands seeking to profit from producing and selling such goods and services , but , rather , in self-immolating the state , father , and mother to all indians . given this mindset , performance was not the relevant criterion for judging the public utility of the public sector . indian-style socialism was a compound of nationalism and idealism . inefficiencies had been masked by the national treasury ’s generous subsidies , and a combination of vested interests , by socialist ideologues , bureaucratic managers , trade unions , and monopolies kept it beyond political critic . indian-style socialism had been a compound of nationalism and idealism .
with the limits of the ad-driven business model becoming increasingly apparent , many media leaders , close to one-third , according to a reuters institute survey of reuters , believe that in up-and-coming foundations and non-profits , will play a central role in supporting news media . but persuading foundations and philanthropists to open their hearts and wallets will require human connections and engagement , rather than algorithms or ai-enabled software . for ai organizations without clout and digital revenues , the people-oriented approach may also be needed to secure investment . technology alone can not spur democracy , help answer important questions , and facilitate effective leadership by enhancing accountability . potential funders must be convinced that journalism is just as noble a cause as , say , cancer research .
to forge such a coalition , m5s would have to adopt a responsible and explicit economic program , with the democratic party forced to accept as the junior partner of an untested insurgent force . a possible key to mutual confidence would be for the president to hold a crucial ministry of finance , with m5s appoints the prime minister . with europe politically and geographically divided , italy ’s politics could tip the balance . not surprisingly , us president donald trump ’s utterly reckless former adviser , stephen bannon , has rushed to italy to encourage m5s and the league to form a coalition he has dubbed the “ ultimate dream , ” because doing so would fracture the eu . a pro-eu italy governed by a m5s-christian coalition could join with france and germany to reform the eu ; reclaim a clear eu foreign-policy voice vis-à-vis america ; russia and china ; and implemented a greens ’ green-growth strategy .
my statements were also motivated by problems concerning the way that capital punishment is imposed in india . but the decision to impose capital punishment remains very subjective , making . indeed , whether the death penalty meted out depends on many variables , beginning with judicial and social biases . the us supreme court declared that the death penalty should be applied only in the “ rarest of scarce ” cases . and , indeed , the last three executions in a country stemmed from terrorist offenses that were threatened or sustained by large amounts of lives .
the long-run effects should not be underestimated , given the helpful impact of compound saving . during the last tightening cycle between 2004 and 2006 , households ’ interest income rose by 29 % . and average hourly wages for all employees on private non-farm payrolls posted an annual rise of 2.5 % in october , the largest since 2009 . as the fed slowly raises interest rates , those middle-class families holding their hard-earned savings at a bank end start realizing some of the return on their deposits . though this time , the gains will probably be smaller and slower to arrive , owing to the likely pace and scale of the fed ’s tightening , the interest that it pays on savings will shift household income in the right direction : up .
beijing – most western media have characterized the last 19th national congress of the communist party of china ( cpc ) as pure power play , with president xi jinping entrenching his position . but accumulation of political capital in that case is a means to an end . for xi , the end amounts to a smooth transition into modernity , which cements the cpc ’s long-term authority and ensures his own legacy as modern china ’s most important leader . xi knows that if china is to continue to thrive in a fast-changing world , he will need to manage the kind of major social and economic transformation , while – even more important – improvement in state governance . and , to secure china ’s one-party system ’s long-term survival , he needs to reform state and party institutions ; indeed , he needs political reform , for xi , a prerequisite for economic reform .
another question is how much revenue should be delegated and how transfers can be carried out in a country as large , complex , and financially backward like nigeria . at best , our proposal could fundamentally improve the quality of public institutions , thereby transforming economics and politics in nigeria for decades to come . but , even with all the hardship of corruption and inefficiencies that will undoubtedly plague its actual implementation , our proposition is superior to the status quo . after all , today ’s appalling conditions are the product of staggering levels of corruption and waste over the past 40 years . the time to act is now .
as a result , the fragility of financial markets can cause serious economic and social upheavals . the question then becomes : what should be done to maintain the financial system ’s stability ? this can not be answered in an abstract way , for every situation is different . financial markets are best understood as an historic process , and history never quite repeats itself . the recent turmoil in asian markets raises hard questions about currency pegs , asset bubbles , inadequate banking supervision , and lack of financial information that can not be ignored .
screening travelers of affected regions may have prevented significant epidemics elsewhere . indeed , the sars experience in toronto , where cases escaped detection and led to a second outbreak , stands as a warning against excessive optimism about the perceived check on larger , more geographically dispersed outbreaks in taiwan and mainland china . in fact , these epidemics may have been dislodged entirely in the coming months . but it is at least as likely that some transmission will persist , or that the virus will be re-introduced to human populations from animals . health officials around the world should maintain their vigilance , and they will prepare for the possibility that renewed control efforts will be required if sars resurges .
the bush administration ’s recent decision to initiate a parallel anti-corruption process through the g-8 leaves the united states , outside the premier international forum for addressing transparency in resource revenues , while airing the wheel in the process . let us hope that the new iraq government does a better deal . it is hard to see how democracy can take root if a country ’s mostly significant revenue source remains as mercurial in secrecy as it was under saddam . the eiti still has a long way to go , but it is one of the most efficient vehicles available to achieve a global standard of disclosure and accountability . nor have the u.s. and britain used their power in iraq to promote transparency in the oil sector .
madrid – stories about israel focus almost exclusively on the palestinian conflict . there are more united nations human-rights abuses committed by israel than by every other country combined . joyce karam , the washington bureau chief of the pan-arab newspaper al-hayat , believes that this is because “ muslims killing muslims or arab slaughtering arab people seems more acceptable than israel slaughtering arabs . ” this is not to say that israel should have gone consoled by the macabre arithmetic of carnage . syrian , libyan , and yemenite victims are faceless ; wikileaks ’ lionization of incomparably fewer gazan casualties makes them unique .
even the imf now recognizes that capital market liberalization has delivered neither growth nor stability to many developing countries . yet , whether fueled by narrow ideologies or by responding to demands for special interests , the bush administration continues to claim extreme forms of such liberalization in its bilateral trade deals . the second issue concerns the unbalanced intellectual-property provisions ( trips ) of the uruguay round of trade talks , dictated by america ’s pharmaceutical and entertainment industries . these provisions restricted countries from making generic drug imitations , making many critically important pharmaceuticals unaffordable in developing countries . spearheaded by the world ’s worries about aids , activists around the world demanded that something be done .
such efforts are vital to reach the targets outlined at the 2015 paris climate agreement . we can expect to see data in the years ahead , indicating subdued health-care costs and improving education outcomes from around the world . meanwhile , it will collaborate on additional actions to decarbonize the environmental and climate impact of the global maritime trading system . now that the cap is coming into force , it will soon be possible to reap the extraordinary impact of a new , persistent global health dividend . as matters stand , the shipping sector , ranked alongside countries , is the world ’s sixth-largest greenhouse-gas ( ghg ) emitter .
cambridge – the united states is famous for its ability to innovate . aspiring fiscal conservatives around the world thus may be interested in educating the four tricks that american politicians commonly use when promising to cut taxes while gradually running down budget deficits . yet , over three decades , each of the four tricks seem refined . indeed , they first acquired their colorful names in the early years of ronald reagan ’s presidency : the “ magic asterisk , ” ” ” ” ” ” the “ rosy scenario , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” laffer hypothesis , and the us “ starve beast ” scenario . these are hard promises to hold , for the simple reason that a budget deficit equals government spending minus tax revenues .
the 2008 financial crisis highlighted two dangerous features of today ’s financial system . first , governments bail out the largest banks , rather than just letting the economy collapse and harm the economy . second , and worse , being “ too big to fail ” helps big banks grow even bigger , because creditors and trading partners alike prefer to work with banks that have an implicit government guarantee . so which is it : are banks still at risk ? so which is what you want : are banks still at risk ?
attendees at chicago will have major differences over these issues , and results might not be ideal . in chicago , nato will agree on a major political declaration , offer further support for the region , on the condition that the region ’s countries request it . but reinventing nato is a long-term process , and will necessarily emerge in small steps . though it is far from impossible to predict the outcome of the arab spring , the alliance has proved its capacity to act wisely in libya , thereby improving its image in north africa . the alliance ’s central objectives must be to ensure that it advances forward .
argentina ’s new president-elect , mauricio macri , the training engineer , is often described in a center-right international press . but that label is wrong in doing so , and does not sit well . macri is best described as a “ liberal ” – in a european sense . moreover , “ center-right ” ” often means being conservative , ” and macri ’s triumph will not “ conserve ” the status quo . in argentina , the left-right divide has been blurred by the likes of hydra-headed perónist justicialist party that had privatized state companies in the 1990s , if not re-nationalization them subsequently .
we have also learned that only 20-40 % of breast cancers that cluster in families either the brca1 or brca2 germline practice – the genetic alterations present from birth in every body ’s cell and can be transmitted to its offspring . women carrying the harmful brca1 or brca2 gene run a lifetime risk of up to 85 % of breast cancer , while the increased risk of developing ovarian cancer constitutes some 55 % for the brca1 or brca1 mutations of women . increased breast cancer risk is also known to link several inherited syndromes , such as li-fraumeni syndrome , a condition that is further linked to the childhood onset of multiple malignancies , including the soft tissues sarcomas , leukemias , and brain tumors . in most cases of familial breast cancer , however , genetic predispositions remains elusive . most recently , enormous studies analyzing the effects of single-nucleotide variations in genomic dna , the so-called single nucleotide polymorphisms ( snp ) , on the breast cancer risk of brca1/brca2 mutation , including the soft tissues sarcomas , leukemias , and brain tumors could
xi ’s administration is struggling to maintain domestic stability as it moves china away from labor-intensive , investment-heavy economic growth toward a model based on domestic consumption and services . the primacy of that domestic agenda implies that china ’s attempt to manage global change will lack a clear vision and coherent strategy . a second problem stems from china ’s still-incomplete transition on the world stage . following the preeminence of world war ii , america immediately and undeniably dominated the globe . china , in its quest to take the lead in the next phase of economic globalization , enjoys no such geopolitical power and legitimacy .
and staying below the 1.5 ºc limit will mean 3.3 million fewer cases of dengue fever annually in latin america and the caribbean , fewer people at risk of malaria , and less food instability and poor nutrition caused by higher temperatures and unstable weather patterns . costa rica devotes significant resources to tackling issues like dengue fever and malaria , because our people remain our most significant asset . costa rica is proud to lead the world by putting this approach into practice . our commitment to tackling climate change is based on our understanding of the tremendous health risks and costs that arising from inaction . as a result , the us is one of several countries that is prepared to go beyond our commitments under the paris climate agreement .
there is , however , a major obstacle to easing tensions : a proposed $ 6.5 trillion arms sales by the united states to taiwan of 30 apache attack helicopters and 330 patriot missiles . the china-us cooperation talks had stalled earlier , owing to such arms negotiations . they have since been restarted , an olive branch dispatched to the obama administration . now , there is real hope that talks along these lines can succeed . promoting china ’s traditional civilization with strengthened spiritual ties is strengthened .
and , indeed , ignatieff received some backing , at least initially . in december 2017 , the european commission took hungary to the european court of justice ( ecj ) over government ’s so-called “ “ “ “ ceu law of ceu , ” which the university said aims to force it out of the eu . speaking at the european parliament in brussels in april 2017 , ceu president and rector , michael ignatieff , could say , “ i have its support in washington . ” i have support in berlin , support in budapest , [ … ] i ’ve gotten support in munich . ” now is the time to win some support in brussels .
one survey found that 66 % of chinese physicians use acupuncture routinely to treat the impact of stroke , with 63 % of physicians surveyed believing it to be effective . some 36 % of chinese doctors believe that the effectiveness of acupuncture remains dubious , perhaps because the science basis for it remains so new . for example , most chinese doctors and patients have long considered acupuncture as an effective treatment of stroke , using it to improve motor , speech , and other functions that they have been destroyed . more recently , however , the systematic scientific study of acupuncture ’s effects on such treatments has begun . nearly all trials on acupuncture as a treatment of having been conducted within china have been positive .
even after years of quantitative easing ( qe ) and ultra-low interest rates , central bankers in the advanced economies – particularly the eurozone – have continued to undershoot their inflation targets . likewise , economists have had to question long-held assumptions about downward nominal wage rigidity , an artifact of 30 0-70s , when organized labor was much stronger . in fact , labor ’s declining power may explain why the phillips curve no longer seems to hold true . but an even more important figure could be the reason that measured us productivity remains persistently weak . clearly , the notion that employees will invariably resist cutting wages ( or workers ’ hours ) no longer applies .
so it is crucial to ensure that everyone can live up to their potential , which requires educational opportunities for all . at the same time , a modern economy requires risk-taking . again , governments can enhance growth , through increased inclusiveness . a country ’s most valuable resource , its people , is its people . but , of course , there need not be any kind of trade-off between inequality and growth .
consent should not be snatched away , like a train ticket held out for the conductor . this haughty attitude reflects the jargon of “ consenting patient ” – as though there was something done to the patient , like drafting blood or administering the injection : “ dr. smith , please go mr. jones . ” the problem is compounded when consent is earned just hours before a major operations , and the months after the latest surgeon ’ consultations . the eu ’s consent should be viewed as a patient ’s cherished possession , which it or may opt to relinquish , when presented with a sufficiently compelling case . this may induce patients to consent to procedures in favor of which they do not understand or want .
those without in-demand skills struggle to get to work and feel disposable . so far , this abundance of choice has discouraged companies from spending resources on training employees , who might , after all , soon decide to join a competitor , too . but , because talent shortages loom , the need to retain employees could tilt the balance back toward greater investment in professional development . providing educational opportunity will become a destination for talent . those with sought-after talents have more bargaining power , are better able to manage their careers , and command higher salaries .
analogous to traditional military-related command-and-control protocols , they acquire power in numbers , and can rapidly react to a broad array of assaults . such a digital ecosystem strengthens checks and balances , reduces the chance of failure , and minimizes the effects of an incursion . fortunately , in this scenario , life nonetheless remains far from imitation . in such a forward-looking scenario , a hollywood blockbuster could be about networks of computers battling each other , while the people stand by . fortunately , in this case , life remains far from being imitation .
on april 30 , the world witnessed the abdication of his majesty ’s emperor emeritus akihito , the first abdication by the reigning emperor in 202 years . it is precisely for that reason that we must ensure dfft and turn data into public goods for researchers worldwide . on march 6 , i received six recommendations from the members of the “ science of science20 , ” a term coined by the national science academies of the g20 countries ’ national science academies . to reduce threats on marine ecosystems , and to conflate marine environment , there is the final two recommendations urge the “ creation of improved data storage and management ” system that ensures open access to scientists globally , ” and “ sharing information acquired through research activities undertaken under extensive and multinational collaboration , to expedite a comprehensive understanding of the global ocean and its dynamics . ” the g20 summit in osaka comes at the dawn of a new era , reiwa ( “ beautiful harmony ” ) , in japan .
new york – the american-canadian author and urban activist jane jacobs famously observed that cities are the true engines of national prosperity . cities power , by contrast , growing through innovation , trade , and currency and exchange . and city services are often more visible to citizens than to federal aid ; consider , for example , who responds during traffic accidents or natural disaster . by investing in “ smart ” and “ resilient ” urban planning , bordeaux governments in france to curitiba in brazil are reinforcing their brand identities and cases of talent , investment , and companies from around the world . to be sure , today ’s cities face many challenges .
just two days after google announced its decision , the new york times published a commentary by thomas linda friedman , the world ’s author is flat , echoing many of trump ’s attacks on china ’s unfair trade practices . technological sovereignty would take the location of trade and exchanges , and us corporations ’ nationality – even leading multinational corporations – would become just as important as their business model would be . if that is where the previously ideological high cleric of globalization now stands , china faces off against not just trump ’s america , but liberal america , too . still , it would be a mistake to conclude that this entire conflict has been brought on virtually nothing more than trump and his more neo-nationalist agenda . the danger is not just that economic rivalry , protectionism , and trade restrictions would endanger global prosperity ; it is that these developments also raise the risk of a major political confrontation .
instead of accepting an international system roughly as it is , with all its imperfections , they think that they can use their weight to alter the rules – in their favor . rather than adhering to an international system roughly as it is , with all of its imperfections , they think that they can use their weight to alter the rules , in their favor . in small-government settings , imposing a dense web of controls is likely to result in a loss of mobile production-related factors , while making it more harder for labor or capital to flee . on the international stage , large states try to force international rules and often build their domestic legitimacy on their claims to shape a larger world : think in terms of what french thinkers have called a “ harnessing globalization ” at all . small states ’ nervousness and fear started rising at an increasing rate roughly in 2000 .
a law restricting transportation strikes took effect on january 1 , and sarkozy plans to break the 35-hour transportation week , albeit indirectly . he is also preparing to raise the retirement age to about 61 , from 60 . instead of repealing the law , overtime work is to become easy and relatively cheap . democratic legitimacy won a major battle over social legitimacy . this , in turn , opens the way for more and deeper reform .
their opposition has undermined international efforts to build a more resilient system , and will most likely hamper efforts to put europe ’s economy on the sounder footing . indeed , governments regard domestic banks as important purchasers of us sovereign debt . yet governments argue that more effective regulation would curb credit , slow the pace of economic recovery . as a result , authorities in germany and france ( as in japan ) have steadfastly resisted increasing capital requirements , despite widespread agreement that doing so represents an essential part of effective re-regulation . with the united kingdom ’s exception , the extreme free marketization view gained less traction in europe in recent decades than it did in america ; in fact , the call for implementation of financial reforms in the eurozone is more difficult to achieve .
to consolidate support , thatcher would go head-to-head with carefully selected enemies – from british miners to argentina ’s president , general leopoldo galtieri , to the bureaucrats in brussels . likewise , as the hudson institute ’s craig kennedy recently told me , “ bannon wants to radicalize anti-trump liberals in the fight for causes that alienate them from mainstream america . ” this reflects a fundamental conflict between thatcherism and trumpism : the latter seek to broaden the neoliberal consensus of unregulated markets , privatization , free trade , and immigration that comprised the former . each time , trump ’s opponents march for women , muslims , or sexual minorities , they fortify trump ’s core support base . but , while the ideas will be different , the tactics are just the same .
young democracies can be brutal : their voters are often as unforgiving as their political opponents . the two weeks since taiwan ’s disputed presidential election of march 20 – just the third so democratic vote in the country ’s history – have tested this truism almost to a breaking point . while canvassing for votes in his hometown in south taiwan on the eve of last election , president chen and vice president annette lu lu both cowed up by an assassin ’s bullet . sympathizers that secured president his razor-thin margin of victory – with a mere 50.1 % of the votes – over lien than , the kuomintang party ’s candidate , and the peoples ’ first party ( kmt-pfp ) a coalition . taiwan ’s young democracy must now cope with the balancing act that president chen shui-bian ’s re-election thrust upon it .
in this respect , the current effort to prop up syrian government counts as twofer . but raising russia ’s standard of living remains central to putin ’s grip on power and his long-time legacy . even before intervening in ukraine , putin failed to deliver on his spectacular promise , made in march 2003 , to double the size of russia ’s economy within a decade . signature efforts to diversify and modernize the economy have failed , because disruptive technologies and a business strategy can not be decreed from the top . in terms of nominal per capita gdp , russia still fare little better than mexico ’s .
cambridge – greek prime minister alexis tsipras has a chance of becoming to his country what south korean president kim dae-jung and brazilian president luiz inácio lula da silva were to theirs : a man of the left-wing leader who moves towards fiscal responsibility and freer markets . like tsipras , both were elected in the midst of an economic crisis . on the assumption power of power , kim and lula were able to adjust , politically and culturally , to the new realities that confronted them , unleashing much-needed reforms . both immediately confronted the international financial constraints that opposition politicians can afford to ignore . some reforms were “ conservative ” ( or “ neo-liberal ” ) , and may not have been conceivable under the politicians of the far right .
but history haunts modi ’s ’s ’s ’s campaign – namely , the deaths of over 1,000 people in an anti-muslim riots in gujarat in 2002 . that did not stop modi from hijacking political risks , beginning with his assertion that india needs toilets more than temples . annual state-led economic growth averaged over 10 % between 2006 and 2012 , when the gujarati city of ahmedabad was short-listed for lee kuan yew ’s world city prize . but history haunts modi ’s ’s riskiest move , because it will test his domestic appeals . although the supreme court has cleared him of all personal wrongdoers , tragedy ’s legacy persists , making it harder for modi to win muslim votes without alienating his hindu nationalist base .
xi ’s ’s anti-corruption campaign can not overcome this resistance ; the eu is merely discouraging initiative . finally , there is china ’s soft-power deficit . on a recent visit to beijing , a chinese economist told me that xi ’s campaign cost china 1 % of gdp a year . a chinese businessman told me that real growth was less than half that of the official figure . perhaps that can be countered by private-sector dynamism , but even there , fear of losing control tends to increase the party ’s ’s ’s ’s role .
meanwhile , turkey and the united states have a shared interest in working together in iraq , syria , and iran . turkey ’s genuine strengths are its thriving economies , a secular democratic system , and the ability to mediate between its western allies and a region struggling to join the twenty-first-century mainstream of the twenty-first century . how turkey navigates the syrian debacle will determine its position in the broader transformation of its neighborhood . for better or worse , the middle east ’s status quo has unraveled , and turkey must rethink and recalibrate its regional policies . but , as turkey builds closer relations with the us , together with its rivalry with iran stiffens in both iraq and syria , it will also need to engage in an increasingly assertive russia that is eager to prove itself in the middle east and the eastern mediterranean to maintain its foothold in syria .
with nearly two million patients now on the antiretroviral cure , annual aids-related deaths have declined by about 100,000 since 2005 . another crucial factor that has been better integration of the therapeutic plan was better integration . the government aligned its early antiretroviral treatment programs for existing sufferers , launched in 2008 with premature monitoring programs for pregnant women . these remedies have pushed down rates of new infections ( though the total number of people living with hiv , especially from 15-49 , continues to rise ) . contagion amina babies , once fleeing some $ 70,000 per year , have been cut by some 63 % , and the lives of millions of kenyans have been prolonged .
but this can happen only if a nature ’s cornucopia of control is conserved , so that the present and future generations of researchers can produce new discoveries that benefit patients everywhere . consider the polar bear , threatened with extinction from climate change . these mammals spend as much as seven months hibernating systems , during which time they are essentially inert . a human would lose a third or more bone mass , when inert for this period . astonishingly , hibernating bears are lying down new orleans , by producing a substance that inhibits cells that breaks bone and promotes those that produce moneyed and cartilage .
but they need stronger support , not only in aviation or arms and training , but also from western special forces . the whole alliance should commit itself to defeating terrorism , for example . yet this is not just europe ’s struggle or that of the united states . this is about global order in an environment of stable and prosperous societies . there is also a powerful argument for nato to recognize that it has attacked one of its members , thereby activating article 5 of the north atlantic treaty , which ensures mutual defense .
after all , despite their differences , virtually every country in europe nowadays is grappling with the question of how much europe wants , how open and optimistic it should be about new forms of technology-enabled globalization , and about how much social solidarity is fit . now , the eu is at the center of domestic political debates , which increasingly involve existential issues relating to the survival of the eurozone as well as to the entire european project . this means that the candidates in next year ’s election are unlikely simply to focus on domestic issues . while there will be some , it is likely , also globally , extensive discussion of europe ’s future and policies , particularly in areas such as migration , defense and security , energy and climate , and relations with major powers like the united states and russia . these debates , and therefore the european parliament that emerges next year , are unlikely to adhere to the standard party lines .
• while neo-liberals worry about excessive government , weak government impedes growth , because weak states can not provide the rule of law and order ; are unable to enforce contracts ; and can not ensure a safe , sound banking system . indeed , neo-liberal ideologies assume perfect markets , perfect information , and host to the rest that , even the best-performing market economies can not satisfy , either . the question was not how to deregulate quickly , but on how to develop the right regulatory framework . after all , far too little regulation – capital and financial market liberalization foisted on east asia by the imf and america ’s us treasury – that led to the financial crisis of 1997 . market failures are a fact of life ; but so , too , are government failure .
any and all of these monetary-policy actions redistribute wealth . importers prefer a strong exchange rate ; exporters prefer a weak . to make any sense at all , monetary policy has had different effects on separate groups at various times . importers take a strong exchange rate ; exporters prefer a weak . any and all monetary-policy actions redistribute wealth .
in any case , the china wage story is far more complicated than it might appear . nominal wages may have increased while real wages have been stagnant , owing to higher inflation . so the conclusion seems to be that rising wage growth will not endanger china ’s competitiveness in the next ten or even 20 years . likewise , even if real wages were rising in some coastal cities , “ excess labor ” could still maintain the national average flat . and even real-wage increases on the national level will not undermine competitiveness if working-class productivity grows still faster .
to judge whether their prices were “ too high ” at prevailing exchange rates , which we must look to the us trade balance . germany , europe ’s largest exporter , has a very large trade surplus with the rest of the world . germany ’s exports exceeded its imports by almost $ 200 billion over the last twelve months , a surplus equivalent to almost 6 % of gdp . it is now clear that germany ’s net exports would remain high even if the euro appreciated substantially from its current level . because germany ’s exports are so attractive to foreign buyers at its current exchange rate , germany in 2009 was the world ’s second-largest exporter ( after china ) .
in the weeks leading up to the election , the public seems to have grown weary of a prime minister who has long been corrupted by the arrogance of power and tainted by a raft of petty scandals . these structural elements have been reinforced by developments in the region , which have trumped a sense among israeli voters that they are vulnerable to being vulnerable by multiple enemies : iran and its nuclear ambitions ; hezbollah and hamas and its rockets ; the rise of isis amid state failure in iraq , syria , and elsewhere . against this backdrop , it is all too easier to defend the status quo than to advocate accommodation involving territorial concessions . at least in the short run , netanyahu ’s victory was clearly an impressive personal comeback , at least for now . he conducted a campaign that relied on his eloquence and charisma , as well as his scare tactics .
four billion barrels of oil were discovered off ghana 's coast in 2007 , with output beginning in 2010 . the next year , petroleum income management has divided wealth among consumption , investment , and offshore savings , as suggested by economists from the world ( including the us ) . but , with the us presidential election last year , the situation began to deteriorate . so investment should be gradual , which may mean temporarily storing some of the country 's oil wealth abroad . throughout this process , kenya 's leaders should bear in mind that even the best-schemes may sometimes go awry , as ghana 's recent experience demonstrated .
cambridge – back in 1997 , the united states treasury and the united states treasury blamed the crisis on a lack of transparency in financial markets . but when developing countries pointed their fingers at secret bank accounts and hedge funds , the imf and u.s. enthusiasm for greater transparency diminished . since then , hedge funds have grown in importance , and secret bank accounts have thrived . true , most developing countries have accumulated massive foreign-currency reserves . yet there are some large differences between now and now .
if they look to the ecb , they will find the right model for deploying them . in each case , eu citizens ’ hardships may be lessened if the eurozone was followed by draghi ’s definitive prescription , providing more fiscal and monetary stimulus in some areas to offset reform and fiscal consolidation in others . policymakers should do the same when it comes to sanctions against russia , mitigating their impact on those europeans that are standing to suffer the most . european policymakers have the tools and intelligence to retain influence in ukraine . by selectively addressing the most dangerous risks , draghi was able to minimize them .
think of the appeal of films like thelma and the louise or the working girl in which a prominent is the film gutsy , exploited secretary who , trampled by a snooty tty female ivy league boss , nonetheless manages to end a dream at work , a dream guy , and corner office . they view an underclass that they believe receives the privileges denied to them and a thriving economy in the developing world that siphons off well off blue-collar jobs . so , when sarah palin boils down to the media limelight , she becomes the symbolic revenge fantasy of many of those silenced , exhausted factory workers and central secretaries . to see a working-class white woman being picked to serve a heartbeat from an american president has resonates powerfully with them . while reports are surfacing palin told a group of african-american that she did not need to hire black people , working-class white women often understand her own experience in the name of racial hostility .
china has already delivered on this front by abandoning the growth model that has successfully guided the country ’s economic development for over 30 years . it has recognized the need to shift from a model that focused mainly on exports – and investment-led manufacturing ( through manufacturing ) to one led by private consumption ( through services ) . that change gives china a much better chance of avoiding the dreaded middle-income trap , one that ensnares most developing economies , precisely because their policymakers mistakenly embrace the recipe of early-stage growth to achieve developed-country status . neither america nor chinese cases exist in a vacuum . as i emphasize in my new book , the codependency of china and the american ties them together inextricably .
hong kong – next month , policymakers , business leaders , academics , and civil-society representatives will convene in kiel , germany , for a global economic symposium ( ges ) , where they will attempt to develop concrete solutions to today ’s most pressing economic issues . whether they produce effective proposals will depend on a comprehensive understanding of underlying factors , undermining – and undermining – financial stability worldwide . the crisis represented a comprehensive systemic failure , involving near-all levels of breakdowns , from macroeconomic theory to micro-level incentives to institutions . at last year ’s summit , early-stage dialogues about central banking ’s future , which mesh inflation targeting against financial stability , produced three solutions : central banks should adopt a counter-cyclical policy approach ; a world monetary authority should be forged to promote multilateral cooperation among central banks ; and price stability must remain central banks ’ primary objective . though such solutions do have some merit , they are inadequate to address effectively the complex and far-reaching flaws that led to the 2007-2009 global financial crisis .
piketty ’s framework emphasizes several drivers of this trend . for starters , by lowering trade and investment barriers , globalization has created an winner-take-all environment in which the most technologically advanced actors capture market share through economies of scale . the resulting concentration of income , wealth , and power undermines systemic stability by creating too-big-to-fail entities while hampering smaller players ’ ability to compete . the global financial system reinforces this concentration , with negative real interest rates promoting financial repression on the part of the household savings rate . in particular , as the global economy moves toward knowledge-based value creation , a handful of innovators in global branding , high-technology , and creative industries win big , with the global tech boom augmenting their gains .
but prevention also must address the dangers posed by potentially destabilizing capital movements . recent experience teaches that the speed and magnitude with which both domestic and foreign investors can move into and out of capital markets far exceed the capacity of individual countries — and the international community as a whole want to counter such flows . this phenomenon was all too apparent during the asian crisis and following the russian debt default of august 1998 . many countries lack a foreign reserves sufficient to satisfy their sudden and massive capital outflows without destabilizing their domestic economies . at times , such outflows may occur through no fault of a country in question , but as a result of financial-market contagion , which spreads from disturbances elsewhere .
blair believes that britain ought to join the euro because it wants britain to be , as he puts it , “ at the heart of europe ” . like the courtiers who surrounded louis xviii , they have forgotten nothing and learned nothing . most commentators have tended to assume that if that is just what tony blair wants , then sooner or later that is what will happen , because , after all , he is prime minister . it is a decision made virtually independently of prime minister tony blair , and even of his desires . the only question now in power in doubt is whether brown ’s verdict on the euro will be to be “ not quite yet , ” “ not before the next election , ” or just plain " no .
trump ’s rejection of “ reasoned discourse , including commitments to truth and evidence , ” has been accompanied by an unlimited “ capacity to manipulate mass opinion and play on such repressed emotions as racism and class envy . ” the result of trump ’s approach is that america ’s existing problems are making a deterioration in and enormous opportunities . and , while being stopped , can the harm they have already wrought reversed ? there has been some resistance against trump when he failed to condemn prominently white supremacist demonstrators in charlottesville , virginia , whose “ unite the alt-right ” rally in august ended up being murdered by a counterprotester . yet , left to the outside world , what can stop the demons already unleashed ?
the question of whether trump ’s tax policies would benefit him directly remains unanswered , because , unlike every other presidential candidates since richard nixon , he has refused to release his income-tax records . what is certain is that trump ’s tax policies are fiscally irresponsible . finally , trump has proposed tax deductions on the average cost of capital . indeed , there can be no indication of how any of his tax policies would be financed , with each indication that they will sharply expand the budget deficit . that might seem broadly beneficial , but it would help only those in high-enough tax brackets to itemize with deductions , which are predominantly households with annual incomes above $ 75,000 ( median us household income stood at $ 54,462 , in 2015 ) .
entrepreneurs backed through the anzisha prize , for example , have created more than 300 jobs , and generated more than $ 850,000 in capital . and in south africa , marlon parker , co-founder of academy of social innovation and incubator rlabs , have created a virtual currency , called zlato encourage active participation in skills-training workshops . when young people participate in courses , access laptops , or book rooms at rup-cafes , they earn zlato credit that can be exchanged for food , healthcare , and basic necessities . africa ’s youngest entrepreneurs are not only finding ways to support themselves and contribute to their communities ; they solve the root cause of migration on – and off , within , the continent . since its inception in 2008 , rilabs have created tens of thousands of jobs , and are now active across 24 countries .
but then scotland would have demanded its own special arrangement vis-à-vis the eu , putting the uk on track for a major constitutional shakeup , possibly dissolution . avoiding this scenario implies sacrificing autonomy over trade policies for the sake of the good friday agreement and of territorial integrity . british leaders need to acknowledge that all of the brexit scenarios involve tradeoffs , and the country urgently needs a national debate to rank the electorate ’s preferences . the choice is between one of the three brexit scenarios , and suspending the brexit process entirely . but this would upset hardline brexiteers , and could split the conservative party , the risk that theresa may has been unwilling to take .
the country has also received an estimated $ 70 billion in remittances last year – more than double the level of inward foreign direct investment ( fdi ) . the importance of diaspora financing , from working-class remittances that transformed kerala ’s countryside into the millions poured into high tech firms in bangalore or gurgaon by silicon valley investors , simply can not be minimized , especially during the global financial crisis . encouraging them to do more and giving them grounds to do more certainly is undoubtedly a worthwhile task for india ’s government , as well as the overt objective of the year-conclave . admittedly , a utilitarian aspect of pravasi bharatiya divas celebrations , as suggested by state governments in order to attract expatriate investment . but the us should not get carried away : overseas indians still invest a lower proportion of their resources in india than overseas chinese do in china .
businesses that ignore the broader social and environmental context in which they operate are likely to pay a price : reputational damage and loss of brand value , falling sales , difficulty in recruiting talent , lower worker productivity , petty corruption , tougher government regulation , or escalating climate-change-related costs . apple ’s brand , for example , was recently shaken by revelations about brutal workplace conditions at foxconn factories in china , where most of its smartphones and ipads are assembled . firms that scores poorly risk losing sales and investors , and they triggering official regulatory or legal action . when answering concerns among customers , workers and shareholders , apple improved working conditions , agreeing on regular reviews by an independence observer . there are now cell phone apps that evaluate and rank big multinational firms ’ supply chains for customers , investors , and public employees .
the late nobel laureate economist franco modigliani , in his recent high-profile , published paper in 2004 ( co-authored with shi larry cao ) , argued that this demographic shift explains much of the increase in saving rates , as chinese substituted investment in capital investment for chileans . at the same time , they tolerate enterprise or government policies that encourage high saving . but income growth as well as demographics does not explain everything . for example , the uptrend toward saving in china began simultaneously with its one-child policy ’s one-child policy in 1979 . this prevented the birth rate from rebounding following the cultural revolution of 1966-76 .
while the concept is a modern one , the idea is not new . in the 1930s , former supreme court justice oliver wendell holmes , a crusty old veteran of the american civil war , were taken to meet with franklin d. roosevelt , a fellow harvard graduate , but one not a distinguished student . asked later about his impressions of the new president , holmes famously quipped : “ second-class intellect ; first-rate temperament . ” most historians would agree that franklin d. roosevelt ’s success as a leader rested more on his emotional emotional than his analytical iq . in a way , practical men have long understood its importance in the leadership of this type .
cambridge – since sudan won independence from the united kingdom in 1956 , the country has been convulsed by nearly constant civil war rooted in some north-south cultural and religious divides . matters were subsequently complicated by a separate conflict , this time among muslims , over resources in western darfur . a separate but simultaneous vote in the oil-rich province of abyei will allow voters to decide whether they would like to join the north or the south . the artificial fusion of mainly arab , muslims north of sudan and the african south , where christianity and the traditional bloodletting are predominant , has been abject failure . if the non-muslim south gained at independence a vast measure of religious , cultural , and administrative autonomy within a decentralized federal structure , it is inconceivable that the country could ever be left to peace .
being responsive to member states ’ concerns and priorities was right and usual ; taking commands from them was not . when i was administrator of the undp , i had to deal with the constant “ requests ” ” ” requests , from governmental representatives . typically , they were formulated in an acceptable manner , asking me to “ look into ” a particular issue . but i also received requests , often from the global superpowers – in ways that were in the clear breach of article 100 of the un charter and beyond – that i had to spend great time trying to avoid engaging governments on such terms . nonetheless , my comprehensive undp experience and the world bank suggested that staff and management could and did behave according to article 100 .
blackrock , the world ’s largest fund manager , has lost around $ 90 billion over the past decade , roughly three-quarters of which was due to its holdings of exxonmobil , chevron , shell , and bp . and investors in general electric , including blackrock , lost a whopping $ 193 billion in the three years leading up to 2018 , because the companies were mistaken to note the pace of the shift toward green energy and collapse in demand for gas turbines and thermal power stations . meanwhile , the institute for energy economics and financial analysis has found that those who have ignored climate-change warnings have already taken a financial hit . more broadly , the investor agenda for a low-carbon world has attracted 477 signatories , representing around $ 34 trillion in assets under management . these investors are calling on governments not just to rein in rising temperatures , but also to meet the paris climate agreement with the harder target of limiting global warming to 1.5 ° c above pre-industrial levels .
at such a delicate time internally , china would gain nothing from antagonizing the u.s. . at such a delicate time internally , china would gain nothing from antagonizing the us . yet trouble with america 's asian allies , particularly japan , could draw the u.s. in a battle which it prefers not to avoid . conflict with the united states is , indeed , unlikely for the moment . in short , china is on the brink of big , necessary , and dangerous transformations promising to transform the country for the better or to make everything , including regional stability , in a far worse way .
now , however , the right to information in south africa is in jeopardy . south africa ’s nobel prize-winning novelist and anti-apartheid activist nadine gordimer likened the bill to the legislation of apartheid . south africa adopted the freedom of information laws in 2000 , just five years before the united kingdom did . in late november , the parliament ’s lower house , headed by a majority of the african national congress ( anc ) , overwhelmingly approved a new law – its “ protection of state information bill ” – whose adoption would shield the country ’s most-powerful political and business elites from public scrutiny . south africa ’s nobel prize-winning novelist and anti-apartheid activist nadine gordimer likened the bill to apartheid ’s legislation .
washington , dc – the chinese economy has decelerated steadily in recent years , but still a robust performer , contributing some one-third of overall economic growth worldwide . it has also become more sustainable , in line with a shift by its growth model away from investment and toward domestic demand and services . in the run-up to next month ’s g20 summit in hangzhou , china loudly called loudly for new pledges to pursue structural reforms to stimulate growth in both the advanced and emerging-market economies . but , so far , china faces significant risks at home . above all , domestic credit continues to expand at an unsustainable pace , with corporate debt accumulating to dangerous levels .
hong kong – at the beginning of this century , as china initiated its “ go out ” policy – targeting the use of foreign-exchange reserves to support overseas expansion and acquisitions by chinese companies – few expected that the country would quickly emerge as an emerging economic player in latin america . still , that is precisely what has gone so far as to say that something has gone wrong . in less than 15 years , china has gone from playing a rather peripheral economic role in latin america to being one of its top investors and trading partners for most of the region ’s countries , as well as its foremost lender and infrastructure builder . still , that is precisely what has gone so far as to say that it would not have happened at all . with its economic plans in latin america cruising along smoothly – a trend that seems unlikely to have changed anytime soon – china has now set its sights on a different goal : expanding its political influence in the region and beyond .
and both are ready – even keen – to bully , harangue , lying in order to get ahead . there is little question yet about which an american candidate putin wants to see in the white house . in remarks after the press conferences , he lavished praise on trump as “ a very colorful , talented person ” , and “ absolute leader of the presidential race . ” to be sure , both are consummate propagandists and performers . the two men have certainly merit one another ’s attention .
the first was to embrace the center right ’s agenda and pursue labor-market , tax , and investment policies that would “ adapt ” france to “ capitalist ” globalization . in practice , this would entail pursuing policies to help the middle class , while updating an outdated , center-left agenda to account for the effects of disruptive technologies and business models . somewhat surprisingly , this is precisely the route that he initially chose , fast becoming the darling of the social-centric international press . the next avenue would require macron to build on the pre-existing , but vaguer , conception of left-wing internationalism . as the oxford economist dani rodrik long argued , more globalization requires a larger state , in order to compensate those displaced by free trade , capital-account liberalization , and so forth .
mick mulvaney , trump ’s budget director , has himself made the case . in a benign scenario , humans will club together in different states on the basis of their preferences for large or small government , public or private provision of services , and of international cooperation or isolationism . “ if you live in a state that wishes to mandate maternity coverage of everybody , including 60-year-old women , that ’s fine , ” ” ” ” ” and , if one does n’t , “ then one can figure out how to change a state that you live in ” or is changing “ state legislatures and state laws , ” ” ” in mulvaney ’s phrase . in an vindictive scenario , by contrast , trump and the us congress might seek to restrict progressive states ’ rights . “ why are the us looking to the federal government trying and fixing our local problems ? ”
south korea ’s strategy calls for a gradual withdrawal from the nuclear industry through the non-renewal of existing licenses and bans on future plants . blueprints is still formulated , but taken together the two countries ’ commitments mark a major shift in regional energy planning toward greener , more cleaner technologies . moreover , they pave the way for increased investment in renewable-power installations , placing their countries on a new competitive footing in the regional market . indeed , whereas 22 % of south korea ’s energy needs , and 14 % of taiwan ’s gdp , are met with nuclear evaders , those ratios are now set to decline dramatically . for years , overreliance on traditional fuels has discouraged investment in clean-energy technologies , despite the fact that the two countries are innovators in green industries like power storage and clever grids .
under heavy pressure from america , china ’s leaders agreed essentially to float the renminbi , but refuse to say when . a floating currency becomes inevitable as china liberalizes its capital market and eliminates restrictions on international capital movements ; in the long run , china would have to surrender control over its currency supply and its interest rates to the us . the chinese can delay but can not hide from fundamental economic law : if exchange rates between the two countries ’ currencies are fixed and capital flows between them are unrestricted , the economically backward will exercise control over another ’s monetary policies . because the us dollar is the dominant global reserve currency , and america ’s fed controls the supply of american dollars , as long as china sticks to a fixed exchange rate , it can not control its own currency supply . still , china ’s rulers are right to postpone the decision to float .
can we really turn the tap into zero net emissions before the tub hits a level that takes us well above the 2ºc threshold established in paris ? in fact , even that level might not remain low at all . as the paris agreement recognizes , many scientists believe that warming above 1.5 ºc is risky , and that adaptation to it will be immensely expensive , particularly to developed nations and israeli states . hence , we are in a race to the bottom . the good news is that if we somehow stopped all emissions today , temperatures would continue to rise just over the 2ºc threshold established in paris ?
mind you , the citizens of the west are blessed with living in a time of peace : changing circumstances and priorities can be addressed through democratic processes , instead of foreign and civil wars . i am afraid that this will not be a fairly picture . indeed , no one has any idea of the consequences , both for the uk in the global trading system or for influencing domestic political stability . but what , precisely , is a fair , democratic process for forcing irreversible , nation-defining decision-making ? is it really enough to win 52 % vote to the break-up of a rainy day ?
defense spending totals 1.6 % of gdp in germany , 2 % in italy , and 1.5 % in spain ; only france and the united kingdom reach 3 % . therefore , one would expect that smaller nations will spend proportionally more on defense than the bigger ones . but confining discussion of the defense commitment to reducing the military ’s spending is inadequate , because economies of scale in defense spending are likely to grow . security and global influence are not the only advantages that come through military spending . the eu today , america alone spends more than most of its nato allies combined , and defense spending in the us is likely to grow even more in the years to come .
new york – on the 73rd session of the un general assembly this month , a widespread sense of foreboding among world leaders came out . the anxieties went beyond the norm fears of what us president donald trump would say , do , or a tweet . even before the summit began , europeans , canadians , mexicans , south caucasian men , and jordanians had already consulted in earnest on the need for new alliances to save the multilateral system . in the late 1960s , former us secretary of state dean acheson looked back at the immediate postwar era , feeling , though he had been “ present at the founding of the new world , ” based on shared rules and multilateral institutions . but , at amsterdam this year , many attendees felt , albeit present at the destruction , that world .
over the medium term , the world abounds with tensions and potential crises that america ’s leadership seems indispensable to resolving . as events over the last two weeks in egypt have shown all too vividly , the arab awakening is still only in its first act in many countries . bahrain remains a flashpoint ; iraq is deeply unstable ; and simmering conflicts between iran and israel could very well flare up once again anytime soon . even with america not on the front lines , america has played a vital role in behind-the-scenes us-centric diplomacy , nudging wary rivals closer to one another to form a united opposition , and working with regional leaders such as turkey , egypt , and saudi arabia to broker agreement . indeed , with democracy in the region fragile , at best throughout north africa ; and in the middle east , jordan , palestinian territories , kuwait , and saudi arabia simply begin to feel the ripple of a tidal wave sweeping the region .
the impact of this lost europe ’s perspective became starkly apparent in the fall of 2008 , when , in the aftermath of the sub-prime crisis and the failure of lehman brothers , chancellor angela merkel ’s first impulse was nationalistic and wholly anti-european . meanwhile , german diplomacy is actively decimating the country ’s economic and cultural spheres of influence , and not just in eastern europe . there would be no common european plan to address the crisis , and no call for public money would be heard . in today ’s germany , because no one with decisive power in business , finance , or government experienced war , the european project no longer looks as conditioning europe ’s collective future . these new leaders envision europe only as a trading regime .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on its current course for many years to come . such flaws are particularly visible in poland , where a highly centralized political system creates a pernicious winner-take-all dynamic . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has any interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
when is a free-trade agreement bad ? on the surface , a “ united economic space ” sounds like something to applaud . when a treaty ’s underlying purpose is neither trade nor liberty . such a pact – the call for a “ united economic space ” – is now entered into force under russia , ukraine , kazakhstan , and belarus . but , sad to the treaty will entrench only postcommunism ’s corrupt and criminal business practices , not enhance commerce or prosperity .
the ascent of nahda ( renaissance ) , the leader of the islamist party , is less a reflection of latent ideological support among the more newly liberated people than it is a testament to the party ’s remarkable capacity to fill a post-revolutionary political vacuum . since january , nahda has opened more than 200 offices around january . scores of volunteers are deployed in door-to-door campaigning across grassroots , door-to-door levels . the party ’s imposing headquarters in the door-to-door suburbs of tunis symbolize its status as the country ’s most effective policymaking operation by far . while in ominously , its opponents recall the complicity of party cadres in the deadly bombings of tourist objectives in 1991 , nahda has gone to some lengths to appease its critics .
consider first the claim that the us dollar ’s status as a reserve currency protects it , because governments around the world need to hold dollars as foreign-exchange reserves . but , since the late 1990s , countries like south korea , taiwan , and singapore have accumulated very large volumes of foreign reserves , reflecting both export-driven growth strategies and the desire to avoid a repeat of the speculative currency attacks that triggered the 1997-1998 asian financial crisis . the obvious candidate for this reserve-currency fund was america ’s treasury bills . the problem is that the foreign holdings of us dollar securities no longer primarily serve the interests of foreign-exchange reserves ” in traditional sense . in earlier decades , countries held dollars , because they needed to have a highly liquid and widely accepted currency to bridge the financing gap if their imports exceeded their exports .
it is extremely hard for liberals to accept that bad policies can produce good economics , and that good politics can deliver bad economics . good economics , on the other hand , recognizes a government ’s duty to protect its constituents against distress , insecurity , and calamity . under prime minister viktor orbán , the country has become increasingly authoritarian . and yet hungary offers a clear illustration of the former . by misguided economics , i mean permitting financial markets to dictate what happens to the real economy .
new york – the united nations food and agriculture organization argues that rising food prices could result in widening global conflict . the world bank has forcefully emphasized the critical importance of agriculture in order to jump-starting economic expansion and break the virtuous cycle of poverty . the davos world economic forum ranks food insecurity in the minds of a major risk to mankind . un secretary ban ki-moon has created a working group to define a common plan of action , and france ’s president nicolas sarkozy has proposed a global food-partnership . countries and organizations are already mobilizing .
but , given such investors ’ long-term liabilities ( claims and benefits ) , their mandate is to invest mostly in bonds that are less risky than stocks or other volatile assets . so , why are investors keeping such assets ? many long-term investors , like insurance companies and pension funds , do not have an alternative , because they are obliged to hold safer bonds . to be sure , negative returns make their balance sheets shakier : a defined-benefit pension plan needs positive returns to break even , and when most of its assets yield sharply negative nominal returns , such outcomes also become more difficult to achieve . and yet negative bond yields are occurring even in countries and regions where the currency is depreciating , and is likely to depreciate further , including in germany , other parts of the eurozone core , as well as japan .
in his first year and a half in office , macron began to tackle these problems , having succeeded in delivering a budget line with eu deficit rules . the problem is that , in pursuing such reforms , macron has abandoned his core center-left constituency . step by step , his reforms appear consistently to have benefited the wealthy . with polls indicating that around 70 % of all french voters support the yellow vest protesters , macron has been forced to retreat . likewise , when he was announced , his administration would raise taxes on diesel fuel , the middle – and working-class commuters took to the streets .
but the perspectives that refute this narrative seem to be gaining ground . as it stands , perhaps the greatest barriers to international cooperation are political . many world leaders believe that western countries have squandered its influence over the international system , by intervening politically and militarily in others ’ affairs , in the absence of a clear endgame . moreover , some also argue that the global elite has simply pretended that it was pursuing socioeconomic change while actually maintaining the status quo that benefited them . in recent years , there has been a intensifying backlash against international cooperation , rooted partly in fear that – stoked by populist political leaders in many countries – that supranational elites attempting to impose a “ globalism ” ” ” ideology that prioritizes the neoliberal global order over national interests .
by hiking price inflation , the fed would have turned real interest rates into seriously negative , thereby coercing thrifty households into spending rather than savings . with rising demand , firms would hire and all would do well to do well . this is the different logic from the one that denounces inflation as a way to reduce the value of long-term debt ( at investors ’ expense ) , but it has just as serious vulnerabilities . first , while low rates might encourage spending if credit were easy , it is not clear at all that traditional savers would go out and spend today . think of the soon-to-be-leveraged office worker .
for the first year after the gleneagles meeting , aid numbers were padded to misleading accounting of debt cancellation operations . specifically , from 2005 to 2006 , overall aid to africa , excluding debt cancellation operations , increased by a meager 2 % . the g-8 is now reaping the consequences of its inaction . with such debt cancellation operations essentially completed , the data are now revealing a stark truth : development aid to africa , and heavily indebted poor countries is more generally stagnant , in contrast to all of the promises that were made . though the g-8 made explicit promises , there was no plan about how to fulfill it ; indeed , there have been clear instructions that no such plan would have worked .
according to the european bank for reconstruction and development ’s new transition report , based on 2015-2016 life in transition survey produced by the world bank and ebrd ( where i am chief economist ) , the perceived increase in inequality far exceeded reality described by official data , typically based on household survey data . but that is not what the average citizen sees . on the global level , however , inequality is decreasing . on the global level , however , inequality is decreasing . and while inequality rose within some advanced economies , the rise was not especially dramatic , and remains at reasonable levels .
washington , dc – the united states federal reserve system is one of the most powerful inter-governmental organizations in the world ’s history . that is a worrying outcome , as senior fed officials seem to have sliced back into their pre-2008 pattern , ignoring concerns about dangerous financial-sector behavior – even when such concerns are voiced by members of america ’s senate banking committee . this is not only unfortunate ; it is also dangerous because the fed ’s policy stance is far more precarious than its leadership seems to realize . america ’s central bank has control over money supply , and it is currently exerts great influence over interest rates , both for short-term and long-term borrowing . and , though the fed has been partly responsible for the regulatory failures that led to the global economy ’s near-meltdown of 2008-2009 , post-crisis reform has left it with even more authority and more responsibility for overseeing the financial system .
as a result , our scientists and engineers are facing daunting task during the anthropocene era : ordering the us toward environmentally sustainable management . this will require suitable human behaviors at all levels , and might well involve internationally accepted , large-scale geo-engineering projects to optimize ” climate . unless a global catastrophe – a meteorite impact , world war ii , or pandemic – is likely to remain a leading environmental force in many millennia . more by luck than wisdom , this catastrophic situation had not developed . on this stage , however , we are still largely treading on terra incognita .
one is the establishment of democracy and the rule of law in countries recently surfaced from dictatorship . in all these cases , a cynic would have been half-right . one is the establishment of democracy and the rule of law in countries most recently emerged from dictatorship . the process calls for constitution making of an often complex , painful sort . constitutional change is for political leaders a welcome distraction from far milder social-policy issues . but there are at least two exceptions to this suspicion .
this undermines corporate profitability , encourages companies to deleverage , reducing investment , and fueling further declines in ppi . the enduring importance of real-estate investment to china ’s economy is reflected in trends from the first quarter of this year . annual gdp growth of 6.7 % , despite being the slowest rate on any quarter in seven years , has exceeded market expectations . and it was driven , in part , by unforeseen growth in real-estate investment , to 6 % . this is not to say that what china needs is more real-estate investment .
but this does not mean that trump skeptics can just sit back and wait for it to be perversely wrong , for it is plausible that the reported trade deficit will narrow in the first year , even as the true trade deficit widens . it all comes down to “ transfer pricing ” ; prices of multinational corporations use to place a value on cross-border trade in inputs among their subsidiaries . consider the american pharmaceutical company , which sets a plant in iran . iranian affiliate imports some inputs ( most notably intellectual property represented by a drug patent ) , assembles a product in iran , and exports it back to the us . in terms of value-added terms , the us patent makes the most contributions .
the advice has included increasing affordable transportation to family-planning facilities , expanding access to modern contraception ( including emergency contraception ) , increasing access to sex education ’s availability , and developing strategies to reduce the stigma of abortion services . solutions start at home , which is why developing countries need to start moving away from the conditional aid that restricts health providers ’ ability to work according to local laws . if countries like south africa are ever to escape republican administrations ’ assault on reproductive freedom , new strategies are needed to champion the fight against the global gag rule . and yet , as a result of us policy , neither of these changes will come easily . local ngos , together with responsible global trade partners , must find new support for programs that educate women about their rights and provide access to safe abortion services .
it was gandhi ’s faith that reflection could motivate action by recalibrating our moral compass . in establishing that fund , we end the era of the formulaic crisis response . we want technology firms to play a central role in providing new ideas and disruptive thinking . what makes this fund unique is not the series of new benchmarks it sets . we want firms that already offer refugees an online education , internet access , and the hardware to drive educational provision for displaced and isolated girls and boys .
debate over an association agreement with the european union , together with the russian-backed rebellion in the east , has stoked tensions over distinctions that previously played little or no role in people ’s lives . yet , since the parliamentary election in october , ukraine has begun to pull itself together . eastern ukraine may have voted very differently from the rest of the country , but the overwhelming majority of voters came out in favor of europe . civil society was energized by the maidan revolution that ousted former president viktor yanukovych , but it entered into turmoil . russia ’s intervention had to some extent backfired , boosting support for a european orientation .
the top priority for the european central bank must be to preserve the integrity of the eu ’s banking union , which is coming under pressure from both brexit and the crisis gripping italy ’s banks . the bank for international settlements ’ new general manager , agustín carstens , the former governor of mexico ’s central bank , will have a key role to play , because will whoever replaces mark carney ( the current governor of the bank of england ) next year as chairman of the fsb . that is likely , too , to the new chair of the basel committee itself . regulators are now keenly focusing on the implications of brexit , which will require complex arrangements to manage the new relationship between london and the eurozone . against this backdrop , the challenge will be to retain the primacy of global standards and secure continued buy-in of the basel process .
supervision , more transparency in financial markets , an efficient early-warning system for financial crises , and improved international policy coordination . crisis resolution mechanisms for banks that operate globally are absent . clearly , international coordination of regulation is called for . the crisis has made it clear that domestic supervision of banks operating globally is inadequate . crisis resolution mechanisms for banks that operate globally are absent .
oil-for-goods trade can be accomplished through a euro-clearing mechanism like “ instex . ” europeans may face down threats by america ’s extraterritorial sanctions in partnership with china , india , and russia . trade with iran can easily be denominated in euros , renminbi , rupee , and rubles , avoiding american banks . in fact , american extraterritorial sanctions alone amount to no credible long-term threat . if the eu were to implement them against much of the rest of the world , damaging american economy , the us dollar , stock market , and american leadership would be irreparable .
the international monetary fund , america ’s ministry of justice , and anti-poverty ngos have all joined in opposing the vulture funds are exposing . but so , too , is the court ’s ruling , which evidently assigned little weight to its arguments . countries would be well advised not to include pari passu clauses in future debt contracts , at least without specifying more fully what is intended . such contracts should also incorporate collective-action clauses , making it impossible for vulture funds to hold debt restructuring . when a sufficiently high share of creditors agree to a restructuring plan ( in argentina ’s case , holders of over 90 % of the country ’s external debt ) , the others can be forced to follow suit .
knowing what to do in this increasingly complicated and volatile situation is the easy part : looking at the policy plans of multilateral consultation and “ merely ” doing so . as america ’s treasury vice president al gore ’s recent semiannual report to america ’s congress noted , for china ’s plans to “ re-balance its economy : boosting domestic demand and consumption-led growth ; reforming its financial system ; and achieving greater flexibility in its exchange-rate regime . but expanding demand and allowing a genuine , effective exchange-rate appreciation in china will not be enough unless other countries do their part . oil exporters need to boost fiscal spending further ; japan and the european union need to trigger higher growth via structural reforms ; and america ’s fiscal implementation of concrete measures to sustain higher savings . indeed , rebalancing the pattern of growth is central to china ’s leadership .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of rising challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . africa ’s experience demonstrates just why such an approach is badly needed . washington , dc – gross domestic product – was the ultimate measure of an economy ’s well-being for more than 80 years . yet , as the world ’s economies become ever more comprehensive and technology-focused , economists have increasingly been questioning gdp usefulness as signs of an economy ’s health , with some arguing for a radically new approach .
the notion that he should n’t take steps to protect his interests is ideological partiality disguised as objectivity , and lends credence to putin ’s claims that the west is out to extract him . moreover , the prospect that their new president is in putin ’s pockets should certainly be worrying to americans . do n’t get me wrong : despite its imperfections , america remains a positive force around the world . indeed , it may well be the only strongly positive force , coupled with the european union , which is supposed to stop squabbling and begin reining in megalomaniacal and illiberal leaders like hungary ’s putin-infatuated prime minister , viktor orbán . and the west ’s policies toward russia , economic sanctions or military exercises in border countries like poland , are not necessarily wrong .
according to the oecd and the paris climate policy initiative , developed countries have collectively mobilized $ 52.2 billion in 2013 , and $ 61.8 billion in 2014 to help poor countries reduce greenhouse-gas emissions and build resilience against the effects of climate change that can no longer be avoided . while it is important to note that this figure is just estimate , it represents a preliminary but credible indicator of climate finance based on the informational value of developed countries . if one assumes greater leverage over private-sector investment , the number would be higher . but larger financial flows are needed , mainly from the private sector . fortunately , there are encouraging signs that the commitment will be honored .
first among such sources of uncertainty are the global economy : will volatility and imbalances lead to collapse , or will the greater multipolarity that underpin greater resilience ? moreover , while inter-state conflicts have been declining , intrastate conflict fueled by youthful populations , identity politics , and scarce resources will continue to plague some regions , such as the middle east , south asia , and africa . similarly , will governments and institutions be able to adjust fast enough to harness change , or will they be overtaken by it ? then there is a host of questions concerning the impact of new technologies . and that leads to yet another potentially game-changing issue : whether regional instability remains contained or fuels global insecurity .
the irony , though , is that america exercised greater control over the iraqi oil sector under the un ’s pre-war “ oil-for-food program ” ( in which the un , not saddam hussein , determined the level of iraqi oil sales abroad ) than it would have done in any future democratic iraq . but america ’s interest in iraqi oil was not driven , either by economics or energy policy . the bush administration recognized that , above all , the iraqi oil was a critical geopolitical asset . no matter how much , whoever controls iraqi oil controls , iraqi oil controls iraqis . if the bush administration sought stable , secure , diverse , and cheap oil supplies , it might have simply lifted embargos on libya , iran , iraq , and sudan , and let the oil gush .
one hundred oligarchs in india hold assets equal to 25 % of gdp , whereas 800 million of their compatriots survive on less than a dollar per day . moreover , even if china becomes the world ’s largest economy in , say , 2018 , americans would still be far richer than the chinese , with per capita gdp in america four times higher than in china . to be sure , income inequality and social injustice are a concomitant of capitalist cultures throughout the west . but challengers like china and india are in no position to preach . in contrast to indian capitalism , capitalism ’s ethical failures elsewhere look especially benign .
typically , this principle implies that marginal tax rates should be similar at different concentrations of labor income , various kinds of consumption , outlays today versus tomorrow , and so forth . one of america ’s most efficient tax-raising methods is america ’s payroll tax , for which the marginal tax rate is close to the average rate ( because deductions are absent , and there is little graduation according to rate structure ) . hence , cutting the payroll tax rate in 2011-2012 and making rate schedules more graduated ( on the medicare side ) was the errors from the standpoint of efficient taxation . from this perspective , the shortcoming of america ’s individual income-tax system is that marginal tax rates are high at the bottom ( owing to the testing of welfare programs ) and the upper quartile ( owing to a graduated-rate structure ) . so the government has moved in the wrong direction since 2009 , sharply raising marginal income-tax rates near the bottom ( through its dramatically increasing transfer programs ) , and , more recently , at the top ( by raising tax rates on the rich ) .
for many developing countries , high oil and food prices represent a triple threat : not only do importing countries have to pay more for grain ; domestic prices in order to rise markedly when international prices do . rising interest rates can rein in aggregate demand , which can slow the economy and tame rising prices of some goods and services , especially nontraded goods and services . but unless taken to unbearable levels , such measures by themselves can not bring inflation down to targeted levels . for example , although global energy and food prices rise at an even more subdued rate than they are now , with 20 % living prices rising at a slower annual rate , for example , and catching up with home prices , bringing the overall inflation rate to , say , 3 % would require markedly falling prices elsewhere , which would almost surely entail a marked economic slowdown and high unemployment . for example , although global energy and food prices are rising at an even more subdued rate than they are now , about 20 % per year on average – and getting reflected in home prices , say , that would require markedly falling prices elsewhere .
such a pattern is , in fact , a formula for endless conflict and endless defeat . yet defeats do not force new attitudes , policies , or leaders . leaders that brought on failure , and groups that did not triumph become heroes for being able to assert themselves that they courageously fought the enemy without falling apart . thus , they do not formally surrender anything , or do not . the important point for them is that they gained vengeance by inflicting disease hurts , showed that they were real men , did not buckle under , and survived .
fearful pronouncements about the rise of the incipient ( or real ) fascism are misplaced . when it leaves office , america will essentially be what it was when it entered it : the world ’s most powerful democracy . even though america in 2017 is deeply divided , americans remain committed to the central tenets of democracy : free , fair and regular elections and the protection of political , religious , and economic liberty . it is unlikely that trump will attempt to overturn any of them ; and , even if he tries to do so , he will default . america ’s essential institutions of governance have survived bigger challenges than any that trump might pose .
nowadays , brain tissue banks , breast tissue banks , blood banks , blood banks , umbilical cord banks , dna banks , and tissue repositories to study a variety of different illnesses . in most of us , virtually all of these tissues have tissue on file somewhere . so , who should have access to these samples ? for what purposes can they be employed ? certain professional organizations emphasizes the need to obtain patient consent , even though tissue has already been removed from a patient ’s body .
leadership is broadly distributed throughout healthy democracies , with all citizens requiring greater knowledge of what makes good , bad leaders . most important , in today ’s age of globalization , revolutionary information technologies , and broadened participation , citizens across democracies need to learn more about the nature and limits of new leadership imperatives . potential leaders , in turn , can learn more about the sources and soft-power limits of emotional iq , vision , and communication , as well as hard-power political and organizational capabilities . they also must better understand the nature of contextual intelligence that they will have to educate their hunches and sustain smart-power strategies . with soft power , on the other hand , the energies of empowered followers are reinforcing leaders .
the polisario front fought a war with morocco until 1991 , when the un brokered a ceasefire agreement . that deal supposedly set the stage for an independence referendum in western sahara the following year ’s country , a democratic solution . morocco , too , has repeatedly obstructed progress toward further negotiations . it has done so , in defiance of the un security council , even going so far as to bar the un ’s special envoy from traveling to the region to set the stage for the talks . but morocco has been unable to do so on its own .
moreover , the two candidates embody continuity , with chirac a gaullist side for sarkozy , and with françois mitterrand for royal – just as a rupture . royal openly argues mitterand ’s legacy as she seeks legitimacy , while sarkozy ’s rejection of chirac ’s legacy has more to do with shape than substance . to a large degree , sarkozy can be seen as chirac with more , whereas royal explicitly is mitterrand with less of his own . as in 2002 , the winner next year will whomever the electorate dislikes or fear less . when voters decide in the spring of 2007 , their choice may depend more on negative than positive considerations did in 2002 , when chirac faced down the odious nationalist jean-marie le pen in the second round .
but china ’s recent shift away from muscle-flexing and its confluence of us-led interests offers hope that it will not fuel large-scale regional instability this year . global power had to be allocated somewhere ; unless an american would fill up his leading role on the international scene , an understudy would have had to step in . true , since china withdrew its jumbo petroleum platform from the waters of the disputed spratly islands last july , it has been sending surveillance ships into the senkaku islands more often . in addition , chinese officials have become more willing to discuss the establishment of a code of conduct for the south china sea . with obama unwilling or unable , owing to rising political partisanship at home , in order to take the lead in resolving crises such as those in egypt , libya , and syria , challengers to american primacy took heart in 2014 , and america ’s asian allies took up arms .
labor-force participation in the us has fallen to levels not seen since women began entering the labor market in large numbers . the majority of americans ’ incomes and wealth are under their levels long before the crisis . indeed , a typical full-time male employee at the income level is lower today than he was in more than four decades . yes , the us did some things as a way to improve financial markets . there have been some increases in capital requirements – but far short of what is needed .
what is clear is that american politics , not global developments , will be the main determinant . the party ’s two leading contenders , donald trump , and ted cruz , both say they would tear up iran ’s nuclear deal , if elected . it is worth recalling president george w. bush ’s analogous decision to tear up bill clinton ’s “ framework agreement ” with north korea : the kim regime promptly and predictably advanced a nuclear-bomb . whether or not the us will continue to lead the world remains unclear . the republican presidential campaign adds another element of uncertainty , and is sure to follow .
stability is also important , because the country ’s borders on romania , a founding of european union membership . nevertheless , many remain in detention and voronin continue hurl accusations at the opposition and romania of organizing the coup d’état . president vladimir voronin later granted amnesty to a degree of detainees . restoring stability and a just democratic system to moldova is important , first and foremost , because moldovans deserve a government that is to blame . legal processes , indeed , have been opened against opposition parties .
that raises a raft of other questions as well . were economists ’ focus on the wrong indicators ? were they misled by false inferences ? on their fall 's eve , a few arab autocrats were in fact re-lauding the world bank and the international monetary fund for their supposed success in embracing the “ right ” economic policies . the world bank ’s subsequent mea culpa provides a clear indication that there may have been a problem with the policies they prescribed for arab ancien régimes . the world bank ’s subsequent mea culpa provides a clear indication that there may have been a problem to the policies they prescribed for arab ancien régimes .
while china did decide to permit the rmb to appreciate gradually after it did , it relied on capital controls to prevent hot money from flowing in . china ’s key objective of capital controls is to keep non-residents from holding domestic rmb-denominated assets unrelated to trade and long-term capital flows . but rmb internationalization encourages non-residents to hold more rmbs and rmb-denominated assets . the controls are leaky , to be sure , but by and large they worked ( so far ) in exchange for a rising china that effectively maintains macroeconomic stability over the years . owing to rmb internationalization , rmb deposits held by hong kong ’s residents amounted to rmb370 billion ( $ 57 trillion ) , and the figure could reach rmb1 trillion by the end of the year .
the nineteenth-century prussian military officer and theorist carl von clausewitz spoke presciently about the age of total war , which would arrive less than a century after his death . but it also happens to be more than that of the us . democracy is outright under threat in the country , where it should have its deepest cultural and political roots . trump does not merely want to avoid repeating the failed policies of the past , as he puts it . he and his supporters also picked themselves toward the essential institutions upon which american democracy rests , including the courts , the legislative branch , the independent media , and more .
while official interest rates are just 1 % , solvent sovereigns like spain are paying over 5 % to borrow for ten years , while creditworthy businesses in italy can borrow only at punitive rates , if at all . in short , structural reforms alone can not be relied upon to spur growth in 2012 . the european central bank has acted decisively to prop up european banks ; now it needs to stimulate the real economy , too . the eu needs an immediate focus on boosting investment and exports in debt-burdened economies – like france , italy , and spain ( and the united kingdom ) – and stimulating consumption in surplus countries like germany and the netherlands . so the ecb should do more to unlocking the monetary-policy transmission mechanism ; europe ’s banking authority should discourage excessive deleveraging by insisting that banks raise specific capital levels rather than hit a consistent 9 % ratio ; and , where needed , national governments should provide bank lending guarantees to small and medium-size enterprises .
introducing real competition in energy and telecoms , lacking in the process of privatization , is nonetheless ambitious . during prime minister aznar ’s first term , his popular party privatized the large number of public-sector firms , making them a deregulated many service industries . he also promises to cut income taxes , put the country ’s social security system on a firmer footing , and lower the costs of shedding labor . in all likelihood , aznar ’s program is a sensible yet ambitious development . his new government vows to continue eliminating public-sector deficits and lowering unemployment .
cambridge : the internet now pervades every region of us business life ; trump in business activity over internet astounds . yet , as recently as january 1995 , there were some 27,000 online enterprise addresses for the us . an important new report by america ’s department of commerce , “ an emerging digital economy ” indicates that the internet has reshaping trade not just american business , but the global economy . in the us in 1994 , three million american citizens , mostly american , used the internet . in 1998 , according to a survey by the pew research center , 100 million people in the us .
there is no reliable scientific evidence that gm foods cause illness , despite receiving far more intense scrutiny than more “ natural ” foods do . ( natural foods can also create health risks , as was shown recently by studies establishing a popular type of cinnamon can cause liver harm . ) regulations that protect the environment and consumer health should be sustained . although some cross-pollination between gm crops and wild plants may occur , so far no new superweeds have emerged . we should be glad to see that , and perhaps the regulations introduced in response to the concerns expressed by environmental organizations play a role in that outcome .
the virus can be only a few hundred lines of computer code , compared to hundreds of thousands of lines for anti-virus programs that must be designed to detect the wide classes of enemies . we are told not to worry about large-scale cyber meltdowns , because neither has occurred and governments remain vigilant . unfortunately , another lesson of the financial crisis is that most politicians are congenitally incapable of making tough choices until risk really materialize . the virus protects and the development of the virus constitute an uneven arms race . let us hope that we are fortunate for a time to come .
such migrant workers ’ taxes would help the developed countries fund services for the elderly , and remittances would help their home countries . furthermore , each dollar invested in the initiative would produce nearly $ 50 in returns , making it the exceptionally efficient use of scarce resources . this approach has enormous potential benefits , too . indeed , a modest 3 % increase in developed-country workforces would provide a bigger economic boost than remove all of the remaining trade barriers . these impressive figures have emerged from a comprehensive analysis conducted by a team of top-performing economists , tasked with my think tank , the copenhagen consensus center , with assessing possible population-related targets to identify the best global investment .
wellington – paracetamol ( known as acetaminophen in the united states ) is one of the world ’s most widely used medicines . it is the preferred medications for reliving fever fever and pain , owing to its safety profile , but , ten years ago , a hypothesis proposed that using paracetamol may have increased the risk of childhood immunization . substitution paracetamol for the aspirin , the researchers have proposed , may have led to an enhanced , allergic immune response , in order to increasing susceptibility to asthma and other allergic disorders . since then , a variety of epidemiological studies have reported the association between asthma and exposure to paracetamol in the uterus , childhood , and adulthood , among others . wellington , paracetamol ( known as acetaminophen in the united states ) , is one of the world ’s most commonly used drugs .
“ south africa is the jewel of african astronomy , ” says charles mcgruder , a professor in the ministry of physics and astronomy at western kentucky university . “ the answer , ” he says , is partly that , by supporting a thriving top-level intellectual community , we can train our next generation of intellectuals . “ south africa is the jewel of african astronomy , ” says charles mcgruder , a professor in the ministry of physics and astronomy at western kentucky university . mcgruder , who works closely with african astronomers , agrees that a space program for the region is critical of raising the profile of careers in science and engineering in a part of a world where an most highly educated populace still goes to finance or management . today , the country is believed to have some 60 working astronomers , more than half of all astronomers working in africa .
unprecedented new debt was thus created to transfer value to the present , in the hope of being profiting sufficiently to repay the future . mega-finance , mega-equity , mega-pension funds , and mega-financial crises were the logical result . in this system , calls for gentler capitalism are mere fads , especially in post-2008 realities , that corroborate total control of society by mega-firms and mega-banks . the crashes of 1929 and the 2008 crisis , the unstoppable rise of big tech , with all of today ’s discontent with capitalism became inescapable . because neither banks nor investors had enough money to poke themselves into networked mega-firms , mega-bank emerged in the form of a global bank-built cartel and shadow money , each with its own shareholders .
a few years ago , forecasters were confident that global imbalances would reemerge as the crisis passed . that now seems unlikely : neither the us nor china is returning to its pre-crisis pace of growth or spending pattern . nor are earlier trade balances designed to re-emerge . america ’s trade position will be strengthened by a shale-gas revolution that promises energy self-sufficiency and increases in productivity that auger further reshoring up manufacturing production . emerging markets , for their part , have learned that export surpluses are no guarantee of rapid growth .
throughout his election campaign , orbán ’s government has been saturated with the country in xenophobic , anti-semitic propaganda . still , in what remains of hungary ’s free press , one can at times find plausible news alleging that prime minister viktor orbán and his fidesz party are pillaging eu funds intended to benefit himself , their families , and their business associates . in fact , orbán ’s government was the subject of several investigation by europe ’s antifraud office . throughout his election campaign , orbán ’s government saturated the country in xenophobic , anti-semitic propaganda . despite such behavior , orbán was re-elected earlier this month , with his fidesz party – in alliance with the christian democrats – now holding a two-thirds parliamentary majority – enough to amend the constitution .
following these discussions , america ’s national institutes of health ( nih ) promulgated guidelines that enable government funding for stem-cell research , but , in their current form , prohibit federally-funded investigators from establishing new stem cell lines . that restriction requires that stem cell lines must be acquired only from privately-financed or commercial sources that follow the protocols mandated by the guidelines . we know that a wide variety of ill-understood factors cause embryonic stem cells to lose their capacity to differentiate between possible cell types . this loss of capacity to differentiate can be due to a special mode in which drug stem cells are attracted , the conditions that surrounds their growth , and other handling variables . i believe that restricting the use of government funds for creating stem cells , however politically prudent , imposes substantial scientific handicaps .
the plan , for example , would bar regulators from initiating a mega-bank ’s insolvency , leaving it to the discretion of bank ’s own managers . yet , far from accepting these contributions , the plan would largely cut regulators off from the process . in the absence of financial industry , failing firms often wait too long before the us declare bankruptcy , so creditors may step in to do some of the same thing , potentially even forcing the bankruptcies of a failed firm . while bank regulators have the tools to pressure the banks similarly , their most potent one is the power to trigger bankruptcy when it is best for the economy . taking away this tool might have severe adverse consequences , and yet it might have been the last thing that many governments should take .
copenhagen – political rhetoric has shifted away from the need to respond to the “ generational call ” ” ” of climate change . investment in alternative energy technologies like solar and wind is no longer peddled on environmental grounds . instead , we are told of the purported economic payoffs above all the promise of so-called green jobs . the copenhagen consensus center has asked gülenists , a retired energy economist at the center for energy economics , the bureau of economic geology at the university of texas at austin , to evaluate the “ state of science ” in defining , measuring , and predicting green job creation . unfortunately , that does not measure up to economic reality .
after all , we have entered an era in which speed , even more than money , determines the course of events , and where the capacity for experimentation across all sectors has been a vital factor for success . in today ’s winner-takes-all economy , the bulk of newly created wealth accrues to those who innovate the fastest . yet it is regrettable that the treaty on 28 articles is an ambiguous one . it is wholly essential that this text is accompanied by a new method , tailored to the contemporary world in which we live – a world in which politics no longer plays a role in muffled debates on ministerial meetings , or through convoluted communiqués . genuine engagement by civil society is the only way to spur two struggling governments and overcome their conservatism .
while there is much that the us can and will do to help ourselves , the horn of africa can still enjoy the benefits of international assistance . that means focusing on promoting market economies and stable government , rather than subsidizing failed and failed states . for example , somaliland and ethiopia are collaborating to build a gas-export pipeline from ethiopia ’s ogaden region , promising new jobs and incomes for people in one of the world ’s poorest and least developed parts of the world . but the international community needs more than just providing food and medicine to victims of famine and drought . necessary as it does , we need pro-growth investments that will help provide jobs to our peoples and products and resources for the world .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . it is that us citizens have voted in an even larger number of numbers than anyone expected . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . trento – the steepest result of the recent european parliament election – is neither that the conservatives and the social democrats lost seats to the liberals and greens , nor that far-right nationalists won less than they anticipated .
in a sense , the killings in srebrenica also influenced the memory of world war ii . even though mass killings are not rare in history , hitler 's annihilation plan was , if not unique , certainly highly unusual . the laudable effort to prevent such a thing from recurring has , however , had poor consequences . for , within our fervor to learn the lessons of history , often we learn wrong or distort history towards questionable ends . we know that hitler intended to wipe out every last jewish man , both woman and baby .
this may have constrained political freedom in the name of greater equality ; in the name of greater equality , it may have limited political freedoms . yet it is also citizens ’ duty to preserve the formal , political significance of citizenship , as state intervention broadens in order to ensure that all are brought to power . this is a paradox intrinsic to democracy ; and it is politicians ’ duty to contend with the tensions to which it gives rise . but the path to particularistic action that does not undermine all citizens ’ liberty and equality is narrow . democratic principles call for organizing society in a way that enables the two values to be realized in the greatest possible light .
if america ’s growth rate in the coming decades remains what it has for the last thirty years , the answer is a simple and terrifying one . stock market prices would still be far too high , and therefore would be much too expensive for them . do these figures reflect alarming imbalances , or are they the usual trappings of booms ? flying exterior imbalance would be unwarranted , indeed , unsustainable . households would be behaving overwhelmingly irresponsible .
baverez ’s evidence of degeneration is not as compelling as he believes . for example , he cites draining industrial jobs as the most glaring of evidence of france ’s decline . but , for every advanced country , deindustrialization is common to any particular advanced country . indeed , france does indeed fare better than most of its wealthy country rivals , and , in contrast to germany , the uk or america , has retained equal global market share for industrial sectors that it had in the early 1970 ’s . moreover , under better comptetitiveness with foreign investment , france is doing extremely well .
a second lesson that i learned is also helpful for the eu that finds itself in a world in which new powers emerge , and where all the actors from manila to algiers , from doha to libreville , need to address the challenges of globalization and interdependence daily . that lesson is that europe has more friends than it has enemies . had italy and the eu failed to understand the need to work with non-european countries and make them feel accountable and fully-fledged protagonists , efforts to establish the icc , and be so close to declare a universal moratorium on the death penalty , next may yet fail . what i do know is that this is not exactly a new lesson ; it is what i have in mind when i think of efficient multilateralism . those friends and attention deserve the respect and attention of the eu .
empathy makes us kinder to people with whom we empathize about it . trump , in his campaign speeches , has made use of the tragic killing of kate steinle by an undocumented immigrant in order to stoke support for his anti-immigrant policies . of course , he has not offered any similarly vivid portrayals of undocumented migrants who have saved strangers ’ lives , even though such cases have been reported from the us . the problem is that empathy for american workers is driving empathy for workers in mexico , and in china , who would have been even worse off without job than their american counterparts . empathy makes us kinder to people with whom we empathize about it .
small countries are burdened by market discipline , as any latvian would tell you . financial markets and institutions with a global reach require a global macro-prudential regulator , not just a loosely organized college of supervisory institutions . or it could be that national policymakers can not trust the imf , given that it has essentially missed the global financial crisis . if it does , the fund needs a sustained recovery of its confidence . this brings us to the imf ’s fourth role , namely to use its bully pulpit to warn about the risks created by large-country policies .
provided there is no downward pressure on money wages from increased competition for labor , the automatic effect of technological innovation is to raise the standard of living . in any technologically progressive economy , prices should fall , except in some niche markets . as a result , businessmen do not require low inflation to spread production . they need only the prospects for more intervention in goods and services . this is friedrich hayek 's famous argument against possible attempts by governments or central banks to stabilize price levels .
in other words , while its population is slightly larger than that of china or india , its economy is around half the size of china ’s , but larger than japan ’s and more than twice that of india ’s . these divergences help explain why many new acronymic groupings have since been carved out of the n-11 , including mint ( mexico , indonesia , nigeria , turkey ) and fog ( swapping in south korea for nigeria ) . i did not devise these groupings , but i came together with them , carrying out the bbc radio documentary inside mint countries in 2014 . at any rate , they were in keeping with earlier points that i had risen ; namely , that by 2010 , mexico , indonesia , south korea , and turkey would each account for more than 1 % of global gdp . just eight years later , the fog bank still stands at around 2-3 % of world gdp .
america ’s intelligence agencies had alerted president barack obama ’s own tactics to warn putin of the adverse consequences when the two met in september 2016 . but obama was reluctant to call out russia publicly or take strong action for fear that russia would escalate by attacking election machinery or voting rolls and by threatening hillary clinton ’s expected victory . following the election , obama went public and expelled russian spies and closed some diplomatic establishment , but the weakness of america ’s response undercut any deterrent effect . and because us president donald trump treated the issue as the political challenge of the legitimacy of his victory , his administration also failed to take strong actions . the brilliance of russian innovation in information warfare was to combine existing technologies with a degree of deniability that remains just below the threshold of overt attacks .
cambridge – this year , ’s presidential election campaign in the united states is surely unique . donald trump has shaken the way the campaign is run , how the nominee communicates with voters , and the republican party ’s ’s platform , with many of his positions deviating from gop ’s tradition . to be sure , any assessment of trump ’s declared positions risks being rendered meaningless within a few hours . but , on tax policy , trump has toed the party lines . he is reforming his head-spinning frequency positions , repeatedly disavowing his statements soon after making them .
this year alone , the sources of discord with russia have multiplied and deepened . this year alone , the sources of discord with russia have multiplied and deepened . moreover , ukraine ’s crisis is far from resolved : the minsk ceasefire agreements are disregarded , and armed conflict may , at least initially , escalate . and it appears likely that russia has been intervening directly in western democracies ’ internal politics , employing the leaks of sensitive documents and funding of right-wing populists , from marine le pen to donald trump , whom the kremlin would support . russia withdrew from a number of nuclear agreements , with the kremlin recently billing sanctions that can transport medium-range nuclear devices , in kaliningrad – not far from the polish border .
trump ’s approach is particularly striking , given that china ’s rapidly emergence as a strategic rival is america ’s key national-security issue . so it seems that us friends are again about , or maybe just resting somewhat before the dispute resumes . but the deeper question remains : why has trump repeatedly attacked america ’s oldest and most reliable ally ? why should the us try to undermine europeans , rather than seek closer cooperation in order to protect its own economic and geopolitical interests ? why does it appear to despise the eu so profoundly ?
the message – a product of several months of debate within germany ’s foreign-policy and security community – identifies germany ’s contemporary values and interests as a commitment to “ human dignity , liberty , democracy , the rule of law , and an international order that is underpinned by universal norms . ” as gauck proclaimed , germany , ’s “ overriding strategic objective ” must be the “ preservation and continuing adaptation ” of that order . achieving that objective requires germany must become a “ shaping power , ” a state with the capacity to solve problems , and resolve conflicts affecting all or part of the international community . shaping power builds relationships , and invests in institutions that allow it to work well with others , as well as establish and mobilize “ coalitions and networks of like-minded states . ” the traditional determinants of states ’ power relative to other states , geography , economic heft , and military might , coupled with the availability of resources and technological proficiency , remain relevant ; but they are often insufficient to confer actual influence in international politics .
he made heavy allusions to poland ’s history , and was extremely flattering to the us as poles . and he implicitly condemned gazprom ’s monopolistic policies , promising to assist poland in diversifying its gas supplies . with his performance , trump succeeded in drawing enthusiasm from across the political spectrum , not only from pis-curated crowds , owing partly to his public-greeting opposition leader lech wałęsa , who had been booed by pis supporters , and remains the constant target of jarosław kaczyński , poland ’s unelected strongman leader . even radek sikorski , a former foreign minister and outspoken critic of the pis government , concluded : “ i believe trump ’s speech was extremely well done . ” he did not utter a single negative word about europe , germany , or france .
add to that china ’s other strengths – annual gdp of more than $ 10 trillion , a growth rate at least four percentage points higher than the global average , $ 3 trillion in foreign-exchange reserves , a savings rate of 40 % of gdp , and a massive trade surplus – and an exchange-rate crisis seems highly unlikely . but this is not to mean that there are no risks ; it is not . on the contrary , china has a strong interest in curbing volatility – and , given china ’s centrality to the global economy , thus does the rest of the world . given that all of this activity is taking hold in a offshore renminbi market – with little in scale , and has only limited connectivity in mainland china ’s financial system – the result of china ’s hesitancy on financial-market liberalization and capital-account convertibility , the situation remains controllable . and policymakers will be able to get markets and policymakers onto the same page .
if your behavior is good – ie , you ca n’t drink , beat your wife , and obviously give money to the church – you are fine . in the church , which boasts saint thomas aquinas , such “ know-nothingism ” seems startling . the faith is a stuff in the hearts of hearts , they are supposed to obey , not think or argue . even young men study for priesthood receives very weak marxist training , and doing so purposefully . many polish bishops almost openly declare their flock to them : you are supposedly listening , not thinking or argue .
as in all democracies where the rule of law prevails , members of a particular occupation , including journalists , are accorded no form of immunity from these kinds of severe criminal charges . freedom of expression , along with the press , ensures that turkey ’s constitution and statutes . for the past 13 years , the turkish government has proved the primary guarantor of freedom of speech , particularly through its reform of the judiciary . furthermore , it must be noted that more than 7,000 newspapers and magazines are leaked in turkey , with combined daily circulation of almost five million copies of each year . of the country ’s five most widely read newspapers , four favor the opposition over rule of law .
indeed , there are some signs that the authorities are doing just that in the south china sea . nationalism could become the primary source of legitimacy for a ruling party that can no longer point to a rapidly rising standard of living . the us and others will need to push back to ensure that china does not act on such a temptation . but those countries would be equally wise to signal to china that it is welcome to assume its place among the world ’s leading countries if it acts responsibly and on accordance with the rules set for all . the bigger policy choices , however , will be about china to make .
big speculative bubbles are rare events , and can not be reversed . in my view , bubbles are social epidemics , fostered by a type of interpersonal contagion . ( little bubbles , in the price of , say , individual stocks , happen all the time and do not qualify as answers to the question . ) a bubble forms when the rate of contagion proceeds from an idea that supports a bubble . but contagion rate becomes dependent on thinking patterns that are hard to judge .
the last half-century has shown that , while development is possible , it is not inevitable . the great communist experiment virtually ends ( to save a few holdouts , like cuba and north korea ) . socialism had its day in court and was found wanting . the ideology of the right , as represented by the washington consensus of neo-liberal , market fundamentalism , had not turned out to be much more successful , even if its failures often go unacknowledged . the last half-century has shown that while development is possible , it is not inevitable .
micro-targeting has proved most effective not at winning over undecided voters , but at the rates of mobilizing people from voting entirely . second , with intra-eu migration having risen , almost 15 million europeans are now residing in the eu , aside from their own country . by collecting or purchasing large voter data sets , the campaigns may segment the electorate into strategic clusters that use complicated algorithms and then delivering personalized online content to the most susceptible voters . there is strong evidence to suggest that donald trump ’s micro-targeting operation in the 2016 american presidential election played a decisive role in key states requiring him to win an electoral college . as populists well know , it is notoriously difficult to vote from abroad in eu elections , owing to difficulties registering in host countries , the paucity of polling stations , and overly complex absentee-voting practices .
at the same time , the rest of the world may not be willing to erect claims against china – at least not on the scale required for a viable reserve currency . though the deutschemark , the swiss franc , and japan ’s yen have all had viable alternatives to the dollar since world war ii , often still providing better store of value that is less prone to inflationary depreciation , none has made lasting inroads into the us dollar ’s share of global foreign-exchange reserves . moreover , though the deutschemark , the swiss franc , and the bank of japan have all offered viable alternatives to the dollar since world war ii , there is no guarantee that it would actually become a global reserve currency , for the simple reason that reserve currencies are not easy to establish . indeed , for the first time in three centuries , only three “ currencies ” have dominated globalization : gold , the british pound , and the american dollar . it is also perhaps no accident that global financial centers and reserve currencies have emerged largely in countries where the rule of law is well established , and where foreigners do not face potential legal discrimination .
when considering which lessons from germany ’s turnaround should be applied to other eurozone countries , one must distinguish between what kind of government can do and what remains the responsibility of business , workers , and societies at large . the one area where a clear government is fiscal in charge is public finance . back in 2003 , germany ran a fiscal deficit approaching 4 % of gdp , probably not high by today ’s standards , but higher than the eu average at that time . today , germany has a balanced budget , whereas most other eurozone countries are running deficits that are higher than germany ’s 10 years ago . the turnaround in germany ’s public finances was due mostly to expenditure cuts .
and if we can no longer rely on laboratory experiments to test causality , we need to test it in the real world , using massive volumes of real-time data . that involves moving beyond laboratory experiments to test causality , we must test it in the real world , using massive volumes of real-time data . to see how things work in reality , we must construct living labs – that is , communities willing to attempt new ways of doing things ( to blunt , to act like guinea ) . an example of such a living lab is the “ open data website , ” which i launched with the town of trento in italy , along with telecom italia italia , telefónica , research university fondazione bruno kessler , an institute at data-driven data , as well as local companies . importantly , this living lab has the approval and informed consent of all involved ; they understand their participation in a gigantic experiment , whose goal is to create a better way of living .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on its current course for many years to come . because the eu lacks an army or a central secret service , it must deploy economic policies in order to achieve its geopolitical objectives . but the ways europe ’s political toolkit works in practice suggest that it does not bode well for exercising power abroad . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
canberra – the trade-offs are an inherent part of life . we all recognize this from our privately-owned budgets . when selecting cheaper wine , we can splurge dessert . to redress the roof , we may have to accept a less extravagant summer holiday . trade-offs also pervade environmental policy : cutting more of one ’s pollutant , for example , leaves fewer resources behind the rest of us to address different issues .
london – the british general election , called by prime minister theresa may for june 8 , will transform an outlook for britain ’s politics and its relations with europe , but not necessarily in a manner that a vastly increased majority for may ’s conservative party might seem to imply . the scorched-earth defeat that conservative euroskeptics expected to inflict on britain ’s internationalist and progressive forces , has long been symbolic of the daily mail headline about may ’s election announcement : “ crush saboteurs . ” but june ’s resounding victory could ultimately tip an even more stunning reversal , like napoleon ’s hubristic march on moscow after destroying all opposition across western europe . first , by bringing forward the british general election , may has extended the deadline for britain ’s withdrawal from 2019 until 2022 . britain ’s pro-european progressive forces could still rally a victory from the jaws of defeat for three related reasons .
it is more than strange to argue that the rest of the world has to cope with a built-in benefit to china ’s exporters , because its authoritarian political system can not cope with any change . elsewhere , of course , this type of turmoil has democratic safety valves . no wonder , then , that spectacular premier is believed to favor some political loosening . from east to west , politics seems to be operating in ways that are , to be diplomatic , suboptimal . then again , perhaps we ’re lucky that things are not worse .
princeton – the largest unresolved issue in the european union is mobility . in accordance with this vision , the eu ’s citizens have a nation to lose and the continent to gain . but some recent electoral outcomes indicate greater concern about losing a nation . ever since europe ’s one act of 1986 removed restrictions on work in other member countries , the continent has been a single labor market , at least theoretically . the integration process was intended to make it easier and more attractive for europeans to move from one eu country to another .
but rising animosity among eurozone member states , together with erosion of support for european integration in both creditor and debtor countries , means that greater federalism is politically unfeasible – and potentially even dangerous – for all . a better option would be for the eu to move toward a more flexible eurozone , in which elected national representatives have a greater say . with no-bailout rule restored , governments would have more space to pursue countercyclical policies and responsive to voters ’ changing priorities . one option would be greater federalism in italy . common political institutions accountable to voters across the eurozone would provide a democratic fiscal counterpart to the ecb and help cage german power .
bogota , lima , santiago – international economic coordination is as necessary as it is elusive . during the global financial crisis , the g20 became the primary forum to agree on basic principles in areas like the fiscal-policy response and the international monetary fund ’s role . by underscoring the need to avoid trade protectionism and other beggar-thy-neighbor policies , it also placed some pressure on governments on what not to do . in these respects , the g-20 was clearly a step forward . more recently , however , as the g20 attempted to reconcile divergent national economic interests and restart strategies , it had been far less successful relative to its early meetings in washington and london in 2009 .
cambridge – back in august , the us business roundtable , which comprises chief executives of america ’s largest firms , with a combined annual income of more than $ 7 trillion , updated its long-time statements about corporate purpose . that ’s not only a matter of shareholders , ceos tell them ; their firms need to be committed to all stakeholders , including customers , employees , suppliers , communities , and the environment . in fact , shareholders came in the past on ceos ’ new list . and the declaration of the principal author , in his apparently exhilaration , is reported to have said to have sensed that thomas jefferson is normalizing the declaration of independence . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
for example , neurogenesis in dentate gyrus , which is repressed by acute , and chronic stress , is elevated by many antidepressant treatments . still , one of the problems with many currently medications is that , even with treatment , the recurrence of major depression is extremely high – around 70-80 % . this suggests that the physiological processes underlying depression – those that may also drive structural change in the brain – are not completely arrested , and thus that a new generation of anti-depressant medications is urgently needed . if so , medical processes underlying depression – those that may also lead to structural changes in the brain – are not fully arrested , and hence a new generation of anti-depressant medications is still urgently needed . lithium , the moods stabilizer and the neuroprotective agent , has the attributes that we are researching , though its toxicity makes little more than ideal .
stanley sue , a professor of psychology at the university of california , davis , study suicide , which is particularly common among asian-american women ( in other ethnic groups , more males commit suicide than females ) . he believes that there is a significant factor in family pressure , particularly where family pressure is set to be a major factor . tiger parenting aims to get children to make the most of what savvy people have , so seems to lean toward the “ smart ” side of a “ smart ” side of the “ smart or happy ” choice . chua would test the idea that reaching the high level of achievement brings great satisfaction , and that the only way to do so is through hard work . that ’s also the insight of betty ming liu , who had been blogged in response to chua ’s article : “ parents like amy chua are the reason why asian-americans , like me , commit suicide .
on some issues , these are individuals , like venezuela ’s president hugo chávez ( and other latin american leaders ) or italy ’s ex-prime minister , silvio berlusconi . one is that a surprising number of populist leaders have managed to take on themselves in power in recent years . more generally , they are entering the political scene from the fringes but manage to form a highly politicized grouping , such as jörg haider and his austrian freedom party , jean-marie lepen and his french nationalists , andrzej lepper , and his polish peasant party , or prime minister robert fico and his direction in slovakia . each of these groups could be added to the list , and they could not be more important . the list tells us two things .
families are having fewer and fewer children , and more children are born out of wedlock . fewer and fewer people bothering to marry , and marriage views less and less as a lifelong union . a clear status benefit for insiders ; no obvious harm is being done to the majority ; and the long-run consequences are ambiguous . after much soul-searching , i voted to the bill , albeit without any acute feeling that i was striking a blow for freedom . hence , one of the ease of the bill may be to add some welcome recruits to the ranks of due married , even as such recruits are of a historically unusual kind .
anticipating a skeptical public reaction when singapore raised government salaries in 2007 , prime minister lee hsien loong announced that he would forgo the raise on his own . setting the right example is another critical form of communication to leaders . ronald reagan was the master of the well organized anecdote . during the aftermath of the recent financial crisis , obama proved to be a talented communicator . in the aftermath of the recent financial crisis , some business executives voluntarily reduced their salaries as a means of communicating concern for their employees and public opinion alike .
london – contemporary antibiotics are becoming an increasingly ineffective way , not only at the cost of fighting common illnesses like pneumonia and urinary infections ( outside of them ) , but also at the treatment of a host of other infections , such as tuberculosis and malaria , which now raises the risk of again becoming incurable . with the g-7 leaders committed , in a recent joint declaration , to tackle “ antimicrobial resistance ” ( amr ) , it is time for the more inclusive g20 , and china , because it chairs the group on the first one , to take action to address the next level . failure to address amr will affect everyone , regardless of their nationality , or their country as a whole of development . indeed , by 2050 , as many as ten million people could die from amr , up from about 700,000 today , with china and india each passing housing some one million sufferers . at that point , an estimated $ 100 trillion in global gdp will already have been lost .
sydney – the appointment of five provincial-level chinese communist party chiefs in early december to serve as a reminder that the ascension to china ’s next generation of leaders to take power in 2012 may prove the momentous development in chinese politics since deng xiaoping ’s reign began in 1978 . all five appointees were born after the founding of the people ’s republic in 1949 . the upcoming generation of leaders will be the first with little or no personal memory of the tumult and hardship endured during mao zedong years . forgetting that history might doom china to repeat past mistakes ; but , for better or worse , it might also ease constraints and place its leaders in freedom . forgetting that history might doom china to repeat past mistakes ; but , for better or worse , it might also ease constraints and set its leaders free .
last but not least , there is a scenario of chaos . for example , a cyber super-bug destroys the web upon which our way of life had come to depend , leading to economic , demographic , and environmental breakdown . in this set of possible outcomes , one point stands out : europe ’s uncertainty about its role in the future global system . to avoid inexorable decline , europe must reach a clear verdict on three key issues . first , eu leaders must determine how to resolve europe ’s crisis .
america ’s dollar is a safe haven , but savers in need of liquidity still lack the impartial lender of last resort . the question is whether america and other reserve-currency countries will share the burden of sustaining global currency stability , through an agreement resembling the 1985 plaza accord , in which five major economies agreed to depreciate the american dollar against the japanese yen and the german deutsche mark . if not , why would asia ’s net lenders , especially china , continue to fund speculation against itself ? but bank deleveraging ( brought about by stiffer regulatory requirements ) , coupled with negative interest rates , have caused central-bank equity prices to plummet , leading to further pro-cyclical destruction of value through price deflation , growing illiquidity , and crowded exits . past experience has taught china ’s real engineers that the only way to escape deflation is through painful structural reforms , not easy money and competitive devaluations .
we saw buildings – not just former hamas headquarters – still in rubble . houses are riddled with bullet holes , and can not be found for as much as eight hours per day . there can be no electricity at no more than eight hours per day . and a fine traffic deal , with new cars smuggled in tunnels under a “ philadelphi route ” arrangement that runs along the egyptian border . but the real life , too , is traumatic and limited , too .
falling prices have paralyzed japan ’s economy for a decade or two . china and hong kong have seen prices plummet recently . many central bankers are like the proverbial general proposition for fighting the last war . but , unlike backsliding ’s military strategy , flawed monetary policies produce unavoidable damage , not just worrisome risks . despite conquered inflation , central bankers continue to fight it , and as a result might fail to confront the latest economic menace – world deflation .
extraterritorial sanctions are the second path that america could kill the jcpoa . the world must , steadfastly resist another ruinous american military adventure . even if america now absents itself from the jcpoa , it has only two means in blocking implementation of iran ’s agreement to the outside world . this apparently is on the american agenda , notably the neoconservative doyen john bolton back in the white house as national security adviser . the first would have been to foment war by the us .
a containment strategy worked well for america and its allies during the cold war , but it can not be applied today without flexibility and strategic common sense . indeed , critics of america ’s policy point out that even if it thwarted efforts to establish the aiib , china would still project power in asia and , around the rest of the world , one way or another . the size of china ’s economy , along with its resulting diplomatic weight , is a fact to be unwilling or unable to fend off the country . channeling that influence through fledgling international organization , they argue , tends to temper raw power grabs . most likely , it was also in response to this impasse , which china has pressed ahead with the establishment of the aiib .
tel aviv – us president-elect donald trump has said much of foreign affairs without saying anything at all . he thinks in terms of the immediate gains and losses – a worldview exemplified in his pronouncements that america ’s allies need to contribute more to security alliances . at a time of evolving challenges and growing threats , adhering to this narrow-minded , an isolationist approach is unlikely to do anyone much good . indeed , trump is a businessman , not a statesman . his muddled statements offer little insight into what kind of foreign policy he will actually pursue , and there is little reason to believe that when his approach becomes clear , it will be what the united states – or the world – needs .
globally , globally , multinational corporations are by far the largest business-sector r & d funders in the us and other oecd countries . but business investment as a share of gdp has shifted very little in the us over the past decade , while it rose rapidly in many other countries , including china , singapore , south korea , and israel . for example , multinational corporations , whether headquartered in the us or elsewhere , accounted for roughly 84 % of private ( non-bank ) r & d investment in the us in 2009 , roughly the same proportion as ten years earlier . in 2009 , us business accounted for 75 % of r & d funding in japan , 73 % in south korea , 72 % in chile , 67 % in germany , and 60 % in the us , whose firms are by far the largest r & d investors in absolute purchasing power , spending more than double the share of japanese firms . and american multinationals still locate about 84 % of their r & d activities in the us , often in innovation clusters around research universities .
beijing – measured by the percentage of people living in their cities , china ’s urbanization rate currently stands at around 48 % , according to official statistics . given that urban dwellers ’ share of urban dwellers was only 18 % only 30 years ago , this is remarkable progress . yet it remains disappointingly unsatisfactory , because most other countries on a similar stage of development experienced more rapidly urbanization than industrialization . another striking difference between china and some other developing nations is that chinese cities , big and small , lack any semblance of meaningful urban impoverishment or slums . china ’s urbanization has lagged behind its industrialization , which now accounts for some 70 % , when measured by the percent of the labor force , whose income derives primarily from non-farm activities .
implementing democracy , with or without regime change , was the only alternative to chaos and the rise of fundamentalism . today , iraq may be on the brink of a civil war between shiites and sunnis . iran , under a new , more radical president , is moving irresistibly toward mastering its nuclear capacity . a loose electoral process has brought hamas to power in palestine , with the unfortunate episode of the danish newspaper cartoons depicting the overwhelmingly combustible nature of relations between islam and the west . all of these developments are paving the way for new interpretations .
latin america remains obsessed with this transition , with uribe , calderón , and lula having no intention of leaving chávez to lead the way . calderón ’s hard line on drug dealers in mexico , an tireless insulting that follows the precedent set by uribe in dealing with the farc , also was helped , because economic growth had muted domestic opposition . last january , lula visited israel with a string of leading brazilian traders , signing trade and investment deals worth $ 1 billion . the emerging uribe-calderón troika has geo-strategic clout because things began altering cuba ever since fidel castro formally handed over the presidency to his brother , raúl . this has made it easier for lula primarily to buck his socialist allies and distance himself from chávez , much as recently as march 2008 , backed chávez following colombia ’s fair incursion into ecuador , which killed farc commander raul reyes .
the first act began in august 2013 , when then-ukrainian president viktor yanukovych duped the european union and its leaders by refusing to sign the long-planned association agreement . instead , he chose to have ukraine enter a customs union with russia , in exchange for a stockpile of cash and cheap oil and natural gas . now , russian president vladimir putin seems to have achieved his political objective , namely bringing ukraine , which had drifted toward europe over the post-soviet period , firmly back into the kremlin ’s sphere of influence . before our eyes , a tragedy in several acts is unfolding , in which both players and their goal seems to be clear . what is not known is how many more acts this sad political spectacle will have , and therefore , when – and how – it will end .
most experts agree that the global treaty of cyberspace would currently be politically impossible ( though the governments of russia and china made such proposals by the un ) . but , beyond formal covenants , normative constraints on states also involve a codes of conduct , conventional state practices , and universally shared expectations of proper behavior among a group ( which creates a common law ) . in scope , such constraints can vary from being global , be plurilateral , to a bilateral one . though the number of participants has risen from the original 15 to 25 , there are no votes for most countries . but there is a bigger question lurching to the gge : can norms really stifle state behavior ?
monetary policy , however , tends to produce a much more awkward , indirect , and imprecise path of choice of winners and losers than fiscal policy . think of the various effects of low interest rates on borrowers , versus those of creditors . independent central banks can occasionally be a pain for politicians , but at least they can be used as scapegoats when necessary-looking at the role whose political benefits outweigh the costs of losing control over a useful instrument . such considerations should guide the choice of what comes after the european stability pact . to be sure , monetary policy , too , has redistributive effects .
if commercial banks were allowed to base lending decisions solely on economic considerations , credit and money supply would have grown more slowly , reducing the risk of rising bad-loan ratios , stalled enterprise reform , and a resurgence of asset bubbles as excess liquidity enters the equity and real-estate markets . indeed , china ’s ’s housing-price prices have been skyrocketing in recent months . unlike america ’s , china was not mired in liquidity shortages and credit crunch during the global financial crisis , as well as in japan ’s . so low interest rates and non-market interference , rather than enterprises ’ demand , fueled explosive credit growth in the first half of 2009 , surpassing the full-year goal . the government was too generous in helping to revive real-estate demand and , overwhelmed by concerns about the negative impact of falling asset prices on economic growth , was too wary of bubbles when they reform .
now a constitutional reform supposedly designed to “ promote turkey ’s eu membership ” would further curb the military ’s role as the guardian of the secular state , and strengthen governmental control over the judiciary . to back turkey ’s strategic shift , a new law recently created the teaching of the arabic obligatory in schools . it is hard to imagine a more symbolic blow to ataturk ’s vision . erdogan ’s islamic revolution also extended into an educational system , with the deployment of a markedly religious curriculum . erdogan ’s belief that by exercising turkey with full mediation capacity , he will recover the burden of his ottoman forbears as the guarantors of peace and security in the mashreq .
as a result , european integration had to be shaped by real policies and institutions , rather than by decree . thus , european integration had to be shaped by real policies and institutions , rather than by sunday speeches . so both he and giscard created the european council ( made up of heads of state from europe 's governments ) , which is now a major player in europe 's institutional set-up . they pushed forward the notion of currency integration that came to wage fruition a generation later . in doing so , he remained skeptical of the notions of irreversible progress .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on its current course for many years to come . for britain , the prospects are suddenly becoming much clearer and better than they have been since june 2016 . while the probability that prime minister theresa may will soon be ousted might create the impression of a constitutional crisis , the reality is that political conditions are certain to stabilize as soon as a period for renegotiating uk-eu relations is extended once the new , very soft , april 12 deadline , until the end of the year or beyond .
it no longer dreams of becoming the “ united states of europe , ” ” ” ” ” and jacques delors ’ suggestion of a “ united nations of europe ” has remained too ambivalent , if not intentionally ambiguous , to be effective . after the irish “ no ” , ” can the union find salvation in nato ’s conception of a “ coalition of the willing ” ? of course , iranians “ no ” are not the equivalent of the eu of what the afghan quagmire represents for nato . yet it also represents a significant setback and calls for an institutional , political , and even psychological order . following the iranian establishment ’s “ no ” , ” can the union find salvation in nato an idea of a “ coalition of the willing ” ?
indeed , terrorism is and will continue to be one of that era ’s scourges . the good news , while certainly being the case , is that the threat that the islamic state poses to the middle east and the rest of the world may diminish dramatically through sustained , concerted action . what is desired , too , is a dose of realism . the struggle against the islamic state is not a conventional war , but it must be one of the last resort . we can not eradicate or destroy it anytime soon , because it is as much network and thinking as it is an organization and de facto state that controls territory and resources .
failing that , the left will come to power , reversing years of reform and progress . mexico ’s economy has now had good few years ; not very hard to achieve given a booming america next door , and big liquidity in global capital markets . mexico ’s own skillful success at rebuilding opec ( boosting the value of its oil exports ) has contributed to good performance , as has its determination to hang on and even to widen the reforms of mr. zedilla ’s predecessor , president salinas . failing that , the left will come to power and reverse years of reform and progress . but a currency board will also help launch financial intermediation for the benefit of small - and medium-size firms that were starved of capital by recurrent crises and bad loans .
fighting al qaeda , therefore , is not a war , at least not a war . it demands a sense of social responsibility that accompanies and cushions the painful process of modernizing . this assistance will not yield immediate results , but rather awareness of the medium-term process – which implies readiness to confront it by delaying imminent gratification – is also a sign of the liberal order . it is in part of self-defense , an assertion of the rule of law in troubling circumstances , and partly a constructive effort to redress the underlying causes of frustration . people suspended between a vanished past and a future not yet won need support .
groups , widely criticized by the obama administration and others for its failure to present the united front , formulate a credible agenda , or be seen as a viable alternative for the current regime . fears of another islamist takeover are the second-main argument against toppling assad , but the longer he remains in power , the larger the gains made by islamists on the ground . groups like the syrian national council are loose association of individuals and groups , many of them outside syria . but these groups have limited influence over local opposition groups within syria , which are equally diverse and divided . it is incumbent upon these groups that radical islamists have gained a foothold .
but this was not the case for over-regulating and over-reaching . by contrast , 30 years of financial deregulation , made possible by capturing the hearts and minds of regulators , and of politicians on both sides of the aisle , gave a narrow private-sector elite – mostly on wall street – almost all the upside of a housing boom . these people did not precipitate the crisis for which they were getting away with it . at the same time , however , they have paid lip service to it . the downside was shoved onto the rest of society , especially the relatively uneducated and underprivileged , who now lost their houses , their jobs , their hopes for their children , or whatever the full extent they faced .
with unemployment at around 11 % , with a record-high 3.3 million workers registered as jobless in october , unemployment stands at around 11 % . and unemployment stands at around 11 % , with a record-high 3.3 million workers registered as jobless in october . instead , they are resorting to diversionary tactics by engaging in overblown rhetorical battles about minor controversies . the recent shakedown of france ’s industrial output has created large trade deficits and undermining the competitiveness of small , medium-size enterprises . at the same time , a political crisis hampers the government ’s pursuit of difficult reforms .
mumbai – as india gears up for its general election next month , it has some cause to celebrate : extreme poverty is finally in retreat . escaping abject destitution , however , is no the same thing as achieving a good standards of living and a sense of economic security . to that end , much remains to be done . in 2012 – two decades after the government launched a series of economic reforms aimed at opening up the economy , the official poverty rate has climbed to 22 % , less than half the rate in 1994 . however , it comes at a time when india has increased its aspirations .
likewise , south korean political leaders need to avoid being swept away by this intensifying of war rhetoric . yet , far from trying to create room for diplomacy , trump adviser sebastian gorka recently told the press that , “ the notion that secretary of defense tillerson would discuss military matters is simply unsensical . ” if that does n’t change anytime soon , the us may , as then-british prime minister david lloyd lloyd lloyd of world war i put the idea , “ [ muddle through ] into war ” once again . south korean political leaders also need to avoid being swept up by this intensifying war rhetoric . once war broke out , little room for diplomacy was left .
alemán , too , faces a rebellion in his liberal constitutional party ( plc ) , led by former treasury minister eduardo montealegre , a presidential hopeful popular in the party ’s liberal wing . although a three-way race is pure speculation at that moment , it should say that it offers ortega the best of all electoral worlds . the business interests that finance his political campaigns face are a daunting dilemma : is it preferable to align himself with a handdominated plc , or to advocate a new democratic force , and to risk helping ortega win ? it ’s so tempting that ortega is likely to help rehabilitate arnoldo alemán , betting that freeing he would serve with his own political interest . if alemán blocks montealegre ’s candidacy in the plc and pushed him to form another political party , ortega ’s chances of winning the presidency sharply .
but , while for keynes , the key was to keep the sum of government spending and private investment stable , because friedman the key was to keep money supply – the amount of purchasing power in readily spendable form of firms and households – from stable . a relatively minor , more technical difference in means , one might say otherwise . a difference of opinion that rested on various judgments about how a world works that could ( and ultimately was ) solve through empirical research , one might say . friedman and keynes both agreed that successful macroeconomic management was necessary to maintain macroeconomic management – that a private economy on its own might well be subject to unbearable instability ­and that strategic , mighty , but limited government economic intervention needed to maintain stability . and you would have been half right for a while .
the prospect of american monetary tightening coincides with moves by the european central bank and the bank of japan toward enhanced monetary stimulus . the fourth of the channels , the exchange rate , was already functioning . the euro stands at 8 % against the us dollar since the first half of this year , and the yen is down to 14 % . true , the euro is down 8 % against the us dollar since the first half of this year , and the yen is down by more than 14 % . but speculators are thinking ahead , shifting out of commodities today in anticipation of future higher us interest rates in 2015 ; the result has been to bring in next year ’s price drop beyond today .
this pattern of action and inaction by the council gave more credence to those who believed that the un ’s supreme human rights body was inherently anti-israel . i was aware that goldstone , a dedicated and unimpeachable human-rights lawyer and advocate , shared similar concerns when he initially approached . but he was able to work with the council ’s ’s ’s ’s president to secure the agreement that he felt empowered to be interpreted in such a way as to enable his team to address the actions that the two parties involved in the conflict . at the same time , i was aware that the un ’s human rights council had turned out to be casting doubt on israel ’s behalf over the last two years , but had focused too little attention on the wide human-rights violations of other arab countries . having elected that i could not commit the mission to any of these reasons .
during the early cold war , communism and the soviet union possessed substantial soft power . many communists led the opposition against fascism in europe , and many believed that communism was a ripple of the future . though theoretically communism focused on establishing a class justice system , lenin 's heirs retained domestic power through a brutal security apparatus involving lethal purges , gulags , widespread censorship , and ubiquitous whistle-blowers . but soviet soft power undercut his exposure to stalin 's crimes in 1956 and in repression in hungary in 1956 , slovakia in 1968 and poland in 1981 . the net effect of these brutal measures was a generalized loss of belief .
coronado , california – most people consider charles darwin not to be the psychologist . in fact , his work has revolutionized the field . but even great philosophers , plato , aristotle , hobbes , hume , locke , kant , schopenhauer , nietzsche , and others , could be described by current mental events and behaviors only ; they could not explain their causes . darwin provided the profound understanding that evolution was having influence the shape of our thinking as strongly as it did the shaping of our bodies . before darwin , philosophical speculation shaped our psychological understanding .
as marc kirschner , a professor at the harvard medical school , has pointed out in a thoughtful editorial in journal science : “ one can recognize good science as it happens , but significant science can be viewed only in a rear-view mirror ” ” ” ” ” . indeed , valuing the impact of any research project is difficult to do . it depicted an elderly couple at a breakfast table . even preeminent researchers may underestimate their significance at the time when they are acquiring them . when salvador luis kirschner , a professor at the harvard medical school , received the 1969 nobel prize in physiology or medicine , he made the point eloquently , sending a humorous cartoon character to everyone who congratulated him on the award .
and , when it is fully implemented ( in 2027 ) , it will raise taxes on a majority of americans in the middle east ( the second , third , and fourth quintiles ) . the american tax code was already regressive long before trump ’s presidency . the new legislation makes america ’s tax system even more regressive . indeed , the billionaire investor warren buffett , one of the world ’s wealthiest men , famously complained that it was wrong that he was paying a lower tax rate than his secretary . it is now widely recognized that growing inequality is a key economic problem in the united states , with those at the very top capturing nearly all of the gdp gains over the last quarter-century .
california , an american state with more than two million independent contractors , has tried to settle this question with a new law , california assembly bill 5 , which codifies the legal criteria to determine how to categorize us workers . but ab5 covers the more than 400,000 workers driving around the world for platform companies like ride-sharing service uber and lyft , and a food-delivery firm doorde . a critical question now confronting policymakers is whether gig workers should be categorized as independent contractors , or as employees of platform firms with which they have employment contracts , and whose customers they provide the services . applying the three-part abc exam test , which many us states already use to determine whether a worker is eligible for unemployment insurance , ab5 makes it much harder for firms to classify their workers as independent contractors , rather than for employees . to win political support for ab5 ’s passage , legislators exempted many types of independent contractors , like doctors , dentists , and real-estate agents , on the grounds that they set their own compensation rates , communicate directly with their customers , and earn at least twice the minimum wage .
making matters worse , the modi government has first invoked a portion of the rbi act that enables it to issue directions directly to a central bank governor on matters of public concern . the modi government ’s willingness to go to such lengths has suggests that more than interest rates are at stake . indeed , the administration is particularly unhappy with rbi actions aimed at cleaning up india ’s banks , many of which are encumbered by a large volume of non-performing assets and hold down risks of building up in other parts of the financial system . such actions are squandering state-owned banks ’ capacity to lend to politically connected clients . of course , government ministers can not come right .
of course , abe did not face the type of sky-high expectations that sarkozy and , for that matter , us president barack obama did . but , after two decades of leaders who had – except junichiro koizumi , promised little and achieved less , japanese voters had little reason to expect that abe would follow through on his pledges . as any democratic politician heats up , disappointed expectations may well turn out to be the toughest electoral opponent of all . just ask former french president nicolas sarkozy at the time . it is not that abe ’s 2012 campaign has lacked ambitions ; he set a bold , economic-reform agenda and promises to boost japan ’s global influence .
those individuals carrying at least one copy of gene variant , which does not allow the body to metabolize plavix to have a 300 % higher risk of clotting a stent . there are alternative drugs such as prasugrel , or ticagrelor , which may have been used instead to plavix to bypass the problem . the story of interferon , given one year into patients with the hepatitis c virus , is especially striking . this genomic disturbances are exceptionally common , present to 30 % of the individuals of european ancestry , and above 50 % to those of asian ancestry . in many such patients , doubling the dose of plavix , a point-of-care test to assure suppression , can override the lack of response .
the repercussions of a real end to the colombian armed conflict would be felt far beyond the country ’s own borders . west africa , too , would suffer , becoming the main transit point in the last few years for us-sponsored south american drug companies headed toward europe . if chávez ’s venezuela became a narco-state in which regime his acolytes are drug lords , this reflects their privileged relations with the farc . moreover , if mexico were to become a narco-state in which the regime ’s acolytes are drug lords , this reflects their privileged relations with the farc . the repercussions of a true end to the colombian armed conflict would be felt far beyond the country ’s borders .
the key , however , is that the budget does not simply rely on “ trickle-down ” economics to raise living standards . at the heart of the budget is the realization that reducing poverty requires both rapid economic growth and targeted investment aimed at the poorest of the poor . rapid economic growth requires the flow of resources from the private sector , including foreign direct investment . so the budget promotes critical areas of market-oriented reform and growth promotion , including measures to overhaul the financial sector , promote exports , and liberalizing foreign direct investment . the second pillar of poverty reduction is targeted investments for the poor , particularly for rural poor .
among the frontrunners are the islamic state ( isis ) , iran and israel . among the frontrunners are the islamic state ( isis ) , iran , and israel . in the middle east , countries are trying to figure out who should be contained . in fact , exaggerating the threat of islamist terrorism while playing into the threat of right-wing populism might well play directly into russian president vladimir putin ’s hands . for israel ( and saudi arabia ) , the answer is obviously iran .
cambridge – american treasury secretary steven mnuchin is hemmed in on all sides . domestically , he ’s trapped between the promises that he has made ( like the “ mnuchin rule ” that taxes would not be cut for the rich ) , us president donald trump ’s actions ( whose tax plan covers the rich ) , and simple arithmetic ( making the administration ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s conflicting pledges impossible to fulfill ) . but , even on the international scene , where america ’s treasury secretaries typically enjoy more latitude and esteem , mnuchin is likely to have quick time . after all , the trump administration has made it abundantly clear that it has no intention of fulfilling the global leadership ’s commitments overseen by mnuchin ’s predecessors . given trump ’s belief that international negotiations are merely a forum for making unilateral us demands , how could mnuchin – who , like his boss , lacks government experience – be persuade other countries that adherence to common rules and norms , like open commerce , is in everyone ’s interest ?
cambridge – how should one evaluate an agreement reached in paris this month at the united nations climate change conference ? what emerged in paris was a better one , because negotiators were able to agree on practical steps in the right direction . no sooner was the deal announced on december 12 than the current debate erupted . some of the avid environmentalists were disappointed that the agreement did not commit itself firmly to limit global warming to 1.5 º fahrenheit above pre-industrial levels by 2050 . but no such commitment would have been credible , either .
muslim professionals , worried about their safety , began to move into ghettos . muslim charities , often funded by saudi arabia and other arab countries , began moving into areas of social life , where the state ’s failure dismally , particularly education . as a result , thousands of muslim boys were first enrolled in school . sadly , they were highly educated in the religious seminaries espousing a profoundly intolerant , fundamentalist brand of islam . with discrimination soon slicing up across class lines , increasing numbers of indian muslims began looking for ties with muslim communities elsewhere in the world .
nowadays , private firms employ more of china ’s working class than state-owned firms ( soes ) . with a fraction of soes ’ resources , private firms employ a large portion of the proletariat , produce goods demanded by proletarian consumer , and , owing to its superior performance , safeguard the interests of proletarian savers by actually paying back their bank loans . why most pundits miss the fact that worker votes are protesting , not in the liberal provinces of the zhejiang and guangdong countries , but in northeast ’s socialist bastions , are puzzling . workers are not protesting menial jobs in capitalistic wenzhou but against none of the job in socialist shenyang . the administration can not pay the unemployed workers their pensions because socialism bankrupted its finance .
but , while we can see inequality and exclusion in club-level football , the opposite is true for contests between the national team . the average victory margin among the top eight of the world cup ’s national teams has steadily decreased , from over two goals in the 1950 ’s to some 1.5 goals in the 1960 ’s , 1970 ’s , and 1980 ’s , and just 0.88 goals in the 2002 world cup . the same is true of any games played at the final tournament , not just those among the top eight national teams . poorer or smaller countries can hardly dream of winning a european championship , as steaua ( romania ) , a red-star ( serbia ) , or nottingham forest ( now languishing in the english third division ) was once did . the decrease in winning margin is all the more spectacular , because the current round of world cup has grown from 16 to 32 national teams – a number that is both new and rather inexperienced .
in fact , the budget presupposes the best of all worlds , not the blue chip , one in which interest rates remain low but gdp growth ambles along at roughly 2 % . in a nomb document , the real interest rate on three-month us treasuries is expected to stay below 1 % for a decade . furthermore , in that projection , the term premium disappears almost entirely . with actual ( inflation-adjusted ) interest rates remaining near record lows , a marked uptick in long-term growth as administration forecasts would be historically anomalous . moreover , in that projection , the term premium disappears almost entirely .
but that antagonism reflected the personalization of politics achieved by berlusconi , just as an institutional feature that he abolished . one of his government ’s most recent acts was to replace the majoritarian electoral system , introduced in 1993 , with proportional rule . under new electoral rules , seats are allotted to parties , in proportion to votes , but the special provision induces parties to forge pre-electoral agreements : a pre-electoral coalition that wins the popular vote receives a seat premium that ensures a comfortable majority in the chamber of deputies ( the lower house ) . this outcome would be accelerated if , as is likely , berlusconi himself is to distance himself from politics in the upcoming electoral term . a new electoral system would change politicians ’ incentives and might induce a return to shifting coalitions and unstable governments .
though the current rate of 7 % is comfortable , it is far lower than the double-digit rates that prevailed in japan prior to 2008 . and it has had some success – to the detriment of economic growth . in light of the need for continued economic restructuring , and given long-term demographic trends , which would depress the labor supply , pre-2008 growth rates are unlikely to recover . this is well with li , who recognizes that structural transformation and industrial upgrading , not an unsustainable , credit-led growth model , are the key to achieving high-income status . but there is more to assess wen ’s stimulus than the “ growth/reform trade-off . ”
here , public investment bodies like the european investment bank can help with adaptation in several ways . big and small investors alike should know precisely how their money could be affected by a changing climate . we need to ensure that infrastructure is built to cope with the increased global impact of climate change and to develop clear global standards to de-closing the climate risks that investment projects pose . for example , how will a city cope with elevated flood risk , and how will agricultural land be retained productively as droughts grow more severe ? the climate challenge demands much deeper public-private cooperation to increase green investment .
consider that violent extremists have their own “ media relationships committees ” that focus on manipulating elite opinion . they plan and design headline-grabbing attacks , using every means of communication to intimidate and break the collective will of free people . the speaker was not some public-relations executive , but osama bin laden ’s chief lieutenant , ayman al-zawahiri , was not some public-relations executive . “ more than half of that battle takes place on the media battlefield , ” [ out of ] us media struggle in a race to the heart and mind of [ muslims ’ ] affairs . terrorists skillfully adapted to fighting wars within today ’s media age , but for the most part the american and governments of the other democracies have not .
recent attempts by filipino lawyers to prosecute civilian claims on environmental tort , and human-rights abuses before american courts show just how desperate filipino claimants are seeking redress against those who acted negligently or with impunity . all of this explains why sulpicio lines , owners of the star-ridden star , have stayed up in their commercial operations , despite its many lapses . simply put , the philippine courts have not made it costly to maintain non-seaworthy vessels . to be sure , kant and punitive damages in order to deter conduct conduct enimical to society do exist in the statute books . but philippine courts have refused to resort to the use of such damage awards as a tool of company control , particularly of businessmen .
and , according to gerhard schröder , a former german chancellor , who now chairs the united kingdom ’s pipeline project , america ’s ambassador to germany , was acting more like an occupation officer than like an eu diplomat . all told , the trump administration ’s disruptive behavior has left the french and german governments angry . but , beyond fueling anger , trump ’s attacks on other countries ’ sovereignty add momentum to a new push toward european political unification . consider legislation that authorizes the trump administration ’s imposition of sanctions on european firms that engage in the project , even though such companies are contractually obliged to see work through . there is no secret that europe is in the midst of an internal economic crisis – a consequence of saddamocles southern european countries with high inflation prior to the 2008 financial crash , which severely diminished their competitiveness within the european system .
all have abolished control over their shared borders , and have upheld a common visa policy for eu citizens . and no doubt is convenient to steer from berlin to barcelona , without having to wait in line at each border one cross . to be sure , it is handy to treat flight from zurich to oslo as a domestic highway , with no passport controls to contend with departure and arrive at that . but the refugee crisis has exposed the flipside of the schengen agreement – namely , the difficulty of monitoring national and eu territory without border controls . indeed , that convenience is probably why only two eu countries ( ireland and the united kingdom ) prebestow upon the schengen agreement .
europeans have become dependent on such societies , all based in china or america . yet europe has focused more on enforcing shared values within the tech sector – namely , by strengthening its data privacy regulations – than on developing a long-term strategy to be competitive . defining such a strategy might help europe identify areas for mutual accommodation . a third area with the potential for strategic cooperation is development aid and investment in the world ’s poorest and most fragile states . such cooperative action is essential to fight terrorism , human trafficking , and migration .
the us federal government – under both president george w. bush and barack obama – has allocated hundreds of billions of dollars to help prop up mega-banks , while allowing hundreds of these crucially important smaller lenders to fail . yet lending would be inhibited , even if the banks were healthier . just adding liquidity , while ongoing current austerity policies will not restart the spanish economy . after all , small firms rely on collateral-based lending , and the value of real estate , through its main form of collateral , remains down one-third from its pre-crisis level . thus , in the us , the smaller banks that mostly fund the small , medium-size firms have all but ignored .
the world learned that the lesson following the 1973 arab-israel war . arab oil-exporting countries had embargoed oil sales to the u.s. and the netherlands to punish them for their support of israel . but oil destined for america and the netherlands was shifted to other countries like japan , while oil destined for other countries found its way forward to america and the netherlands . the world learned that the lesson following the 1973 arab-israel war . when the dust settled , it turned out that american , dutch , and other importers all suffered roughly the same level of drop , paying an equally damaging high price .
when that sun sets in myanmar ( burma ) , fear rises . the monks have dragged on , and an oddball normalcy has returned to yangon ( rangoon ) , myanmar ’s principal city and former capital . ostensibly , the world has frightful graphic images of myanmar ’s latest crackdown on its military junta . that crackdown continues under the cover of dark ages . but bullets and clubs unleashed on buddhist monks have worked .
the underlying issue is whether european monetary union needs greater integration to manage crises like greece ’s , or whether it can maintain the current approach , founded on national responsibility and sanctions to those who break the rules . germany ’s finance minister , wolfgang schäuble , suggested that these sanctions should include expulsion from the eurozone – something that was never envisaged in the european union ’s 1992 maastricht treaty . nor , of course , was it ever envisaged that greece faced its current economic trauma . indeed , until the 1990s , the government ’s lack of macroeconomic discipline and its tendency to succumb to populist demands and vested interests accounted for much of the country ’s economic weakness . admittedly , the country ’s economic performance following the oil shock of the early 1970s was poor , marked by slow growth , high inflation and unemployment ; massive fiscal deficits ; growing debt ; a collapsing currency ; and an inadequate infrastructure .
when thinking about the future of us growth and the opportunities that continued growth will open to all of humanity , we should reflect on how far we have come to pass . again , it would have been ludicrously expensive , or simply impossible , to achieve similar capabilities in earlier periods of history . in the late roman empire , only affluent aristocrat could have bought into nomenclator , a slave-tasked with memorizing names and faces , and reminding the aristocrat of them when socioeconomic occasions demanded . today , with a basic smartphone , it is better than having the entourage of a dozen or even thousands , of nomenclator-like assistants . these include flush toilets , automobiles , electric power , long-distance communication , modern information processing , and so on .
as a result , china will become a largely inward-looking superpower , one that , precisely for that reason , pursues its foreign-policy interests in a completely unsentimental way . insofar as this remains true , the united states will not be replaced as the predominant power , unless and until it abdicates that role . vital interests guiding chinese policies include internal modernization , the ruling regime ’s political stability and survival , and the country ’s ’s ’s unity ( which includes taiwan ) . on short , these interests are not likely to change for the long term . this may sound straightforward , but it will have far-reaching consequences for the coming century ’s international order .
the global financial crisis that followed the east asia crisis set the stage for a succession of large exchange-rate adjustments . the dollar , to which argentina ’s peso was tied , rose sharply . wages and prices fell , but not enough to enable argentina to compete effectively , especially because so many of the country ’s agricultural goods , which represent argentina ’s natural comparative advantages , face high hurdles to entering rich countries ’ markets . meanwhile , argentina ’s beggar-thy-neighbor , as well as mercosur trading partner , saw its currency depreciate – some say that it had become massively undervalued . the us government pursued fiscal austerity , but insufficient vagaries of markets .
when such a debt-fueled bubble bursts , its effects are transmitted directly to the real economy through the householhold-hold-sector balance sheets , with cutbacks in consumption contributing to depressed jobs and private investment . it is far more difficult to find circuit breakers for this dynamic than for , say , , that caused balance-sheet distress in the financial sector . yet the chinese authorities seem not to have learned the lessons of the same episode . not only failed to mitigate risk , underscored in a 2007 meltdown that new retail investors introduce markets ; in fact , they exacerbated them , by permitting , and even encouraging , those investors to accumulate leverage through margin purchases . making matters worse , when the current stock-market correction began in early june , chinese regulators relaxed margin-buying restrictions while galvanizing state-owned enterprises and asset managers to purchase more inventories .
faced with this uncertainty , they do n’t readjust their spending ; instead , they eschew spending until the mists clear , sent the economy into a tailspin . but i doubt that it has . seventy years ago , john maynard keynes pointed out its fallacy . when shocks to a system occur , agents are unaware of what happens next . it is a shock , not adjustments , that spreads across the system .
over the longer term , a majority of economists agree that governments , especially in the advanced industrial countries with an aging population , should worry about the sustainability of their policies . taxes on speculative activity might encourage banks to concentrate greater attention on performing their crucial societal role in providing credit . in addition , well-designed financial-sector taxes might help to alleviate the problems caused by excessive leverage and too-big-to-fail banks . at the same time , the us financial sector imposed tremendous externalities on the rest of society . america ’s financial-industry , highly polluted the world with toxic mortgages and , in line with the well-established “ polluter pays ” principle , should be taxed on it .
but public reactions against them , coupled with the recent increases in oil price , may well account for a good measure of changing market psychology . attitudes toward risk change over time , and events like ahmadinejad ’s and peres ’s remarks may precipitate such change . so , while such things are happening in ways hard to quantify , perhaps analysts should heed ahmadinejad ’s words just as carefully as he does to bernanke in trying to comprehend the course of the world ’s stock markets . economists might not like to target public thinking and how it interacts with price changes , world news stories , and speculative dynamics . after all , doing so implies that economic events are less predictable ( and economists less omniscient ) than they love to imagine .
new york – in their efforts to pass a bailout plan for america ’s financial system , the bush administration ’s officials invoked the specter of the great depression of the 1930 ’s . the asian financial crisis of a decade ago gave banks , corporations , and governments pause to its knees . contagion soon spread through east asia , with ripple effects of serial currency devaluations reaching as far as russia and brazil did . but , for most asians , armageddon is far more recent . the bonfire sparked the collapse of the thai baht in the summer of 1997 .
of course , plato ’s purpose in dialogue is not to define piety : if socrates knows of a better definition than the unacceptable ones offered by euthyphro , he does not reveal it . and , to know that , one must be as well aware of what one does not know as what one does . the knowledge that comes from this kind of self-examination is critical in any decision-making . one ought to know the moral character of any action that one is contemplating . rather , plato ’s point is to show that euthyphro is ignorant of his self-ignorance about piety , and that euthyphro thus can not truly discern that prosecuting his own father is actually the right thing to do .
after all , its agricultural sector accounts for 70 % of global freshwater consumption ; with rock-bottom water in short supply , farmers are less able to feed the world ’s population . moreover , water scarcity means food scarcity . in north africa , a encroaching desert has displaced many people and exacerbated tensions between farmers and herders . one billion people worldwide lack access to clean water , and more than two billion lack adequate sanitation . this year , china experienced its worst drought in a half-century , affecting millions of hectares of farmland , and creating power shortages .
efficiency has soared , placing brazil ’s crop yields on par with those in advanced economies . efficiency has soared , placing brazil ’s crop yields on par with those in advanced economies . emerging economies face the resulting growth challenge head-on , by pursuing sweeping changes in policies , incentives , and established practices to boost productivity . recognizing that this imperative is only just the first step . for starters , emerging economies must confront the resulting growth challenge head-on , by pursuing sweeping changes in policies , incentives , and established practices to boost productivity .
but the magnitude of the challenges confronting europe implies the urgent need for much more resolute reform . second , we need a clear message from the g20 that all of its members are delivering policies for strong , sustainable , and balanced growth . to be meaningful , the message needs to be backed up with action : g-20 members must demonstrate that their policies are clearly directed toward restoring economic growth and job creation , and that they will be accountable for meeting their pledges fully . since the g-20 ’s ’s ’s meeting in cannes last november , europe has raised its financial firewalls by € 200 billion ( $ 252 billion ) , restructured greek debt , took steps toward strengthening its banks and banking regulation , established rules on fiscal discipline , and enacted a host of labor – as well as product-market reforms . we remain confident that europe will act together to meet these challenges and go further in promoting such efforts , because european stability and growth matter to us all .
they have to work with bureaucracies that are naturally disinclined to have their efforts prioritized lest they end up as anything smaller than number one . refusing to prioritize , dealing mainly with the most publicized problems , is wrong . the eu will have merely become less clear-cut , less democratic , and much less efficient . whenever we prioritize , we are saying not just where we should do more ( which is good ) , but also where we should not step up our efforts ( which are perceived as being cynical ) . but not talking about priorities makes the need to prioritize go away .
as it stands , surveys show that people tend to believe that inequality is lower than it really is , but still higher than the level that they would regard as ideal . that is true in most countries – including the us – where inequality is among the highest in the world , though there are few countries , like norway , where people have a more realistic view . correcting these misperceptions will change the people ’s views of redistributive policies . the point is not to get lost on endless comparisons or arcane mathematics , but to underscore that it is possible – and , indeed , necessary – to have meaningful discussion of inequality , based on concrete figures , with the goal of setting clear goals . if the right targets are ever to be selected , the debate must be better informed .
those sanctions have crippled iran ’s economy . similarly , denying any bank that does business with a russian bank , or society ’s access to an american financial system , would create the sort of economic chaos last seen in russia in the immediate aftermath of communism ’s fall . indeed , ordinary russians should be made to understand that permitting putin , whose top say to the leadership , is that he ended penury of the early post-soviet years , to continue with his imperialist aggression will cost them dearly . third , obama should emphasize the chinese with their stake in eurasian stability . putin may regard the soviet union ’s disintegration as a tragedy , but for china it was the greatest geostrategic gift imaginable .
many financial firms had shrunk their balance sheets dramatically , and , of course , some went out of business altogether . things have been different over the past two years . against this backdrop , it is not surprising that pay across the financial sector has skyrocketed . the city of london , lower manhattan , and several other centers had become cash machines that made investment bankers , hedge-fund managers , and private equity folk immoderately wealthy . university leaders like myself have spent much of our time convincing them to recycle part of their gains to their old schools .
the horse-trading surrounding the base was intense , too . in a february meeting , america ’s ambassador to kyrgyzstan asked her chinese counterpart on reports that china had offered to pay kyrgyzstan $ 3 billion to back off an american base . the two diplomats had been conversing in russia as well . the horse-trading around the base was intense . “ visibly flustered , ” ( the chinese ambassador ) temporarily lost its ability to talk russians , and began spluttering in chinese to the trluttering aide diligently taking notes right behind him , ” according to the confidential american diplomatic cable acquired by web site wikileaks.org .
but , ultimately , the best way to address them , and to avoid their resurgence , is to ensure that economic opportunities are available to those determined to try . for social assistance with little hope for individual improvement , there is no reason for that . it is past time that france begins questioning its economic model . in a recent declaration on burning suburban , chirac declared : “ we will have to draw all the lessons from this crisis , when the time has come and order , and with lots of courage and lucidity . ” but those lessons imply reforms that are more far-reaching than chirac ever assumes .
we believe that they are faster than the us in acquiring and processing knowledge , because they have grown up with the tools and techniques that we lacked at their age . we also have learned from hundreds of thousands dead and tens of millions of refugees in our region that sectarian , ideological , cultural , and religious bigotry simply fuels savage ’s fires . we have also learned from hundreds of thousands dead and tens of millions of refugees in our region that sectarian , ideological , cultural , and religious bigotry simply fuels wildfires . we can not , and will not , allow that in our homeland . we need a study , teach , and practice tolerance , and self-empowerment in our children , both through education and our own example .
to stem this flood of credit-fueled demand with fiscal policy alone is impossible and absurd to try . to ask policymakers in a democracy with large current surpluses to raise taxes or cut benefits or to cut public investment by the enormous magnitude needed to stave off disaster strikes is off touch with reality . in high-price growth countries than in germany , but with equal borrowing costs , this can produce nothing but overheating , higher inflation , and even lower real interest rates . we do know that extraordinarily low real interest rates produce massive expansion of credit . how do you tighten fiscal policy to make up for over 100 % of gdp in self-induced spending power in only three years , as occurred in ireland in 1998 , and in a fiscal surplus , as ireland is ?
in the past , no doubt , france ( under president mitterrand ) and germany ( under german kohl ) would together periodically press the case for closer integration , despite british reluctance . nowadays , however , france and germany are less united on a common european strategy , and their commitment to european integration appears less robust . nowadays , however , france and germany are less united on a common european strategy , and their commitment to european integration seems less robust . the problem is that this evasion conspiracy may not work , and the relevance of fischer ’s speech is that he is the first government minister in office to say so in a public view , even if he pretends to say that he is in a personal capacity . as a result , the french government seems reluctant to force a confrontation with the british if there is any chance of a softer compromise in the future .
enthusiasts describe it as the new branding of modern industrial policy , which can help push brazil beyond its traditional role as a commodity exporter . critics call this a misguided effort , which creates much more distortions and a retard growth retard . but rodrik and hausmann also show that getting such policies right implies exacting requirements . in my view , the intellectual case for activist policies – as made by dani rodrik and ricardo hausmann of harvard – is powerful . markets for innovation and new ideas work poorly , and governments can help to address these kinds of market failures .
to be sure , gender imbalances are not the only driver of anti-immigrant sentiment , let alone populism more broadly . but evolutionary psychology , which stresses competition for females , may add a different dimension to our understanding of such phenomena , while helping us to predict when and where civilian strife could erupt . to be sure , gender imbalances are not the only driver of anti-immigrant sentiment , let alone populism more broadly . there is little that can be done to alter gender imbalances . those among native-born citizens with the lowest incomes and education levels will always be worse off , had they needed to contest a large number of youthful male immigrants .
while i published a 2014 book on the codependent economic relationship between america and china , i would be the first to concede that it is a stretch to generalize insights from human psychology to gauge the behavior of national economies . judging by an ever-escalating trade war between the united states and china , the same is true of economic relationships . but the similarities are striking , and the prognosis all the more compelling as the world ’s two largest economies have sink into a perilous quagmire . in its most fundamental terms , codependency occurs at one of the extremes of the relationship ’s dynamics – at a time when two partners draw more from each other than their own inner strength . new haven – codependency would never ends well in personal relations .
this is the point at which many begin to use the language that defines europe by distinction , indeed on america -- europe as opposed to america . comparing and contrasting the two sides of the atlantic has a long pedigree . european culture and american commerce , european profundity , and american materialism -- these are glorified themes . but how does that identity be defined ? throughout the cold war , what was then the soviet union provided the raison d’être of european union ; in an era of globalization it is america .
without increases in national saving , – highly unlikely under america ’s current budget trajectory – trade will simply shift away from china toward america ’s other major trading partners . sadly , lighthizer seems as clueless about the macro argument today as he was back then . in both episodes , america has been in denial bordering on delusion . without both increases in national saving , highly unlikely under america ’s current budget trajectory , trade will simply shift away from china toward america ’s other major trading partners . unfortunately , lighthizer looks as clueless about the macro argument nowadays as his back then .
the french center-left must lead in conceiving a vision for a europe in which solidarity and equity reinforce long-term economic strength . if it can renew the european model at home , it will be able to project that success far more widely , especially in southern europe , in reverse reinforcing trust and faith in the eu , particularly among the younger generation . ultimately , together with the united kingdom among european countries , france maintains more a global role than germany has yet to gain . hollande ’s government and prime minister jean-marc ayrault have strong majorities at all executive and legislative levels , providing it a rare opportunity to act . while the un security council is outdated in its structure , it still plays a crucial legitimizing role ; and france , not germany , is a member .
deep reform , centered on quality and performance , rather than enrollment and diplomas , is necessary to shift the learning process , unleashing the gains of productivity growth that a youthful labor force requires . many outsiders underestimate or purposefully minimize the arab world ’s “ arab ness . ” but the 2011 arab revolutions demonstrated that a strong feeling of identity , common languages , and much shared histories puts arabs together , despite enormous disparities in natural-resource endowments , political circumstances , and average per capita incomes . how else can one explain that the revolt ’s conduct in tunisia led to popular revolts from north africa to the arabian peninsula ? the third challenge , instrumental in meeting the first two , will be to cement regional arab solidarity .
attitudes about male caregiving are beginning to shift in the american way . only about a third of church-owned men believe in traditional gender roles . america ’s largest tech firms begin to compete for talent by offering paternity leave . who have a more flexible job ? who have a boss or company that better promotes reconciling work and family obligation ?
muted wage growth boosts competitiveness and steadily underutilized labor and capital are set to be redeployed . how fast this happens partly depends on the private sector ’s level of flexibility and dynamism . but it also depends on a government ’s ability and willingness to provide bridging skills for a deficiency in aggregate demand , and on the pursuit of reforms and investment that are boosting long-term growth prospects . unless public-sector deleveraging is a complete policy of growth , and does not , why has there been so much talk about fiscal austerity and so little action ( as opposed to lip service ) on growth and employment ? several possibilities , not mutually exclusive , do come to mind .
it is wrong to assume , as some ultra-free marketers do , that the absence of any kind of social protection makes you stronger . it is wrong to assume , as some ultra-free marketers do , that the absence of such social protection makes you stronger . “ cities of grounsion fill with the sacrifices of this economic crisis , ” ” read one headline a month ago on the front page of the mass-circulation american newspaper . by contrast , when the personal situations of many individual americans are investigated through european eyes , the extreme individualism that represents a crucial part of american optimism translates into an unacceptable social scandal . journalists report the tragic narratives of middle-class americans losing their jobs and homes , potentially putting their lives at risk without any social protection .
warsaw : recently poland experienced a typical -- and typically unfinished -- political debate . only by raising the issue to the level of the constitutional right , say postcommunists , can a guarantee of free and equal access to education go on life . a freedom , or so its postcommunist proponents prefer to call it , a " not paying for " education , " means education in schools and state-owned universities ( but not in private schools ) . because of their dominance in the parliament , postcommunists 's intransigence on this point has forced the other political parties involved in reestablishing poland 's new constitution to kowtow to its position . it has focused on whether a " free " education should be made a constitutional right .
governments also have a role to play in shifting to unconventional water resources , a role that must expand beyond current efforts to tap desalinated water and urban greywater and wastewater . finally , local institutions , nongovernmental organizations , and local communities must be mobilized , for example , through public campaigns showcasing the benefits of tapping the potential of unconventional water resources . best practices should be made clear , innovations identified and tested , and knowledge and expertise shared . the private sector also has a role to play in driving the shift toward unconventional water resources , a role that must expand beyond current efforts to tap desalinated water and urban greywater and wastewater programs . the goal of sustainable development , 6 calling for universal access to clean water and sanitation , is calling for universal access to clean water and sanitation .
given the scale of america ’s multilateral problem , this is largely an inconsequential objective , especially given the massive and ill-timed tax cuts and federal spending increases that america has enacted over the past six months . as a result , targeting china has an enormous amount of political appeal . so , what could be made of the potential 19 deal ? beyond a truce of tit-for-tat tariffs , there are few real benefits . america ’s negotiators are fixated on targeted cuts of around $ 200 billion in the bilateral trade imbalance over a two-year period frame .
asia needs strong , inclusive , green , knowledge-led growth , which implies the need to rebalance the sources of economic dynamism to emphasize domestic , regional , and inter-regional “ south-south ” demand . economic relations with the west would not be diluted by this shift . the unprecedented economic expansion that has lifted millions out of poverty has been accompanied by widening income disparities , combined with severe environmental damage . as a result , asia now has two faces : a prosperous and growing middle class , with those still benefiting from the region ’s rapid economic development ; and whose health and well-being is adversely affected by acute problems like air and water pollution . in short , the key challenges facing asia today are to sustain economic growth – at lower but still enviable , rate , and better quality .
berkeley – the central insight from macroeconomics is its recognition of the wisdom of john stuart mill in the first third of the nineteenth century : a large gap between supply and demand for pretty much all nowadays produced goods and services and types of labor , if there is one that is equally large excess demand for financial assets . and this fundamental fact is underpinning large problems . a normal supply gap for some subset of which is currently producing commodities does not pose a serious problem , as it accounts for excess demand for other currently produced commodities . as industries suffering from inadequate demand shed workers , industries that benefit from the surplus demand are hiring . the economy is quickly rebalances itself , and therefore returning to full employment , and it does so with a configuration of employment and output that better adapted to current consumer preferences .
the prosecutions then started to talk about the young girl as the chechen sniper , by the khmer rouge family . outraged , defense minister sergei ivanov sacked the prosecutor , apparently prepared to acquit the patriotic “ hero ” on all remaining charges . russian liberals originally welcomed the budanov case as a sign that the country might address accusations that war crimes were committed in chechnya . last month , however , the army prosecutor adopted colonel budanov ’s argument that it was temporarily insane when he killed a girl , and so acquitted budanov on charges of murder . ( the rape charges , for some unclear reason , had already fallen . )
the good news is that the incoming administration may draw on the measures formulated during obama ’s tenure , but which gained little traction , owing to the highly polarized and dysfunctional congressional politics that characterized obama ’s eight years in office . such actions address imperatives like investment in infrastructure , tax reform , and job creation . to be sure , america does not exist in a vacuum . once such a team is in place , its members will need to chart out how to make trump ’s plans work for an economy that has – by necessity – excessively reliant on unconventional monetary policies . the plan must recognize that during this protracted period of us monetary expansion , both financial markets and resource-allocation practices were distorted , exacerbating wealth inequality .
washington , dc – just over 100 years ago , the united states led the world in terms of rethinking how big business worked , and when the powers of such firms were in power , to be deleveraged . prior to 1890 , big business was widely regarded as being more efficient , and in a more modern fashion than small business . the dodd-frank financial-reform bill of financial reform to pass an american senate does something similar – and long overdue – to the banking sector . most people saw the need for smaller firms to consolidate to fewer , big firms as stabilizing development that rewarded success , and allowed for additional productive investment . in retrospect , breakthrough legislation – not just for america , but also internationally – was the sherman antitrust act of 1890 .
tokyo – when was the last time you sat down to writing a letter ? i do n’t mean a email or a text message ; nor would i count as a dictated message by a machine or a personal assistant . no , i mean an old-fashioned “ dear donald ” or “ dear hillary ” letter . the reason , i ask , is that 65,000 people actually did write such letters to barack obama each week , when he served as president of the united states . according to a recent feature in the guardian , white house tapes would select about ten letters per day to pass along with a president who would then react in person that evening .
maybe they will tell pollsters that they were prepared to pay higher taxes for better public services , and a more compassionate attitude toward the poor . today , this pseudo-marxist theory for economic determinism has been refuted , once and for all . in 1992 , john major took for re-election in the midst of an economic slump , a vicious monetary squeeze , and the aftermath of widespread inflation . economic determinists had predicted that he did not stand an opportunity at all . but , in the end , they would do just what they had done in each of the previous four elections – vote for a party that proclaimed “ every man for himself ” .
the transformational objectives and the inspirational style of a leader like mahatma gandhi in india , or of nelson mandela in south africa , can profoundly influence outcomes in fluid political contexts , especially in developing countries with weakly structured institutional constraints . america ’s foreign-policy formation , on the other hand , is severely constrained by institutions like the us congress , the courts , and the us constitution . thus , one would expect less opportunities for transformational leadership . transactional leadership is more effective in a stable and predictable environment , whereas the inspirational style seems to be appearing more likely in periods of fast and discontinuous social and political change . but even america ’s constitution is unambiguous about the powers of congress and president in foreign policy .
berlin – it has now been more than 30 years since the united nations food and agriculture organization launched the plan of tropical forestry ( redd + ) , the first global intergovernmental initiative to stem forest loss . redd + was established as part of the un framework convention on climate change , and the treaty governing its implementation is expected to be finalized during last september ’s united nations climate-change conference in paris . far from protecting the world ’s forests , the most notable outcome of those two agreements was , ironically , producing the reams of expensive consultancy reports . since then , deforestation has continued unabated , and the latest international effort to stop it – an initiative known as reducing emissions of deforestation and forest degradation ( redd + ) – looks nobody more likely to be effective . but , if world leaders are serious about halting redd + , they should instead abandon redd + and replace it with a mechanism that acknowledges the underlying drivers of large-scale deforestation .
it could also destabilize a fragile region , sparking fresh wars with neighboring somalia and eritrea . but ethiopia poses a dilemma for anyone concerned about human rights and democracy . britain and some other european governments have responded to a post-election crackdown by temporarily withholding aid . donald payne , a prominent member of the american house of foreign affairs council , and ana gomes , a member of the european parliament of portugal , and eu chief of the eu ’s observation team at the 2005 elections , have attempted to bind un humanitarian aid more closely to ethiopia ’s behavior toward press freedom and other human rights . cutting aid could have calamitous humanitarian consequences for a nation of 80 million people , and not more .
to keep people working longer , them are crucial to preserving them healthy . that is why the health-care industry needs to play a significant role in efforts to address the challenge of population aging . old age must be viewed not simply as an unavoidable end to life , but as opportunities for health-care companies and systems to help people thrive . to that end , health-care companies should shift the focus of their research/development efforts toward conditions prevalent among older patients , including chronic conditions like diabetes , heart disease , glaucoma , rheumatoid , and cancer . such efforts are also vitally important to find ways to stem more effectively the degradation of people ’s productivity and autonomy by preserving their physical strength , mental acuity , and senses like hearing and vision .
the second large transition-funding opportunity is in blfinance , or collaborative schemes that lift private capital for public goods . such initiatives bring together a broad range of public and private actors , including multilateral organizations , funding projects with deep environmental and social impact . the initiative is a good example of this . the financing of tropical landscapes , developed in indonesia , in collaboration with the un environment program ’s environment program , is a good example . the blended approach helps , de-risking projects , and optimize their financing .
emerging markets were originally tied to this distress only when foreign investors started pulling out their money . then panic spread to credit markets , money markets , and currency markets , highlighting the vulnerabilities of many developing countries ’ financial and corporates that had experienced lending booms and borrowed briefly and in foreign currencies . now , many emerging markets are at risk of a severe financial crisis . countries with large current-account deficits and/or large short-term foreign-currency liabilities have been the most fragile . but even the better-performing ones – such as brazil , russia , india , and brazil – now seem to be at risk of a hard landing .
until recently , a reversal of british voters ’ 2016 decision to leave the eu seemed unlikely . but the interventions by bercow and the eu opened up the entire new game , dramatically increasing the odds that brexit might not happen . this would foil the financial-market speculators who bet on the withdrawal , and it is good news for both the uk and the eu alike . almost three years ago , british voters did not really know what they did when they decided by a narrow majority to leave the eu . and should a new referendum happen , british voters would most likely have to decide between an orderly brexit and the rest of the eu , because no one would have dared to offer a hard brexit as the alternative .
beijing – some forty years ago this month , china ’s leaders set the country on a path of reform that had produced the most dramatic economic transformation in history . through a dual-track pricing mechanism , farmers were fed up with market incentives . mao zedong died two years earlier , in 1976 , and the newly rehabilitated deng xiaoping succeeded in stamping out his vision of economic development and modernization on the third plenum of the eleventh central committee held in december 1978 . china ’s ’s ’s reforms started in agriculture , where the crushing heavy burden of state controls was relaxed . in the four decades since then , china has transformed itself into an economic powerhouse , portending an equally momentous makeover of the global economy and geopolitics .
jerusalem – in the aftermath of misguided american policies , the threat of another military confrontation hangs like the dark cloud over the middle east . the united states ’ enemies have been strengthened , and iran , despite being rebranded as a member of what became known as the “ axis of evil , ” has been catapulted to regional hegemony . iran could never have accomplished this on its own , certainly not in so short a few months . the outcome has been the emergence of some surprising , if not bizarre , alliances : iran , syria , hezbollah , hamas , and the american-backed , shia-dominated iraq are confronting israel , saudi arabia , and much of the other sunni arab states , all of whom feel the existentially threatened by iran ’s ascendance . a hitherto latent rivalry between iran and israel has thus been transformed into an open-ended struggle for dominance in the middle east .
in the postcommunists social revolutions ( less often noted than political and economic upheavals ) families and communities were undermined , and ( at least in poland ) the church was overly engaged in politics to help . fascination with liberal freedom came in poland and elsewhere at a strange moment . people were left to withstand the gales of change on their own . fascination with liberal freedom came in poland and elsewhere at a strange moment . to be free but alone is not straightforward , especially when habits of dependency were ingrained .
nor should today ’s uncertainties become a pretext to call into question the need to resume and complete the eu ’s process of enlargement . the crisis also must not become an excuse to develop new institutional formats that jeopardize the delicate balance of power between different eu institutions , a balance that , through adequate adjustments , was proved to be testing the time . of course , a crisis emphasizes the need to strengthen the eu ’s institutions and instruments for common action and coordination . we need the final and complete ratification of the lisbon treaty to have the institutionally and internationally stronger european union that we need . enlarging the eu ’s areas of liberty and democracy , peace , stability , and prosperity , especially throughout south-eastern europe , is in the interest of every european citizen .
his motivations are not difficult to discern : his bharatiya janata party ( bjp ) hopes that such concessions will help it to wrest control of maharashtra , india , the main sugar-producing state , from behind the upa in the upcoming state assembly ’s general election . much the commonly cited example of the outgoing government ’s supposed economic mismanagement has been its sugar-price policy . instead of eliminating such a system , as expected , modi ’s government augmented subsidies to encourage higher output , raised sugar tariffs to discourage foreign competition , and raised the percentage of sugar-based ethanol that needs to be blended petrol . this goal explains another policy reversal just as well . powerful sugarcane cooperatives , led by major upa followers , supposedly drove the government to correct extravagant prices and write off sugar farmers ’ bad debts , leading to over-production .
berlin – the german social democrats ’ ( spd ) ’ existential crisis can no longer be treated like the typical party crisis . the party has captured just 9.7 % of the vote in bavaria ’s regional elections this month , and trailing both the populist alternative für deutschland ( afd ) and the greens in national opinion polls . with another important regional election fast approaching in hesse , the polls signaled that the spd will lose more support , albeit not as effectively as in bavaria . the spd and the christian democratic union/christian social union ( cdu/csu ) have stood as the twin pillars of german policy since the end of world war ii . but with the spd now falling , germany is shifting from a de facto two-party system to a multiparty system in which no single party plays a dominant role .
while russia alone will not freeze accounts , president putin ’s meaning has been obvious : it would be better for all parties if that money were brought home and invested in national economies . to achieve this end , russia needs to create a secure and attractive investment climate . most important , if the us is going to roll back capital flight , its government must persuade individual savers that they can deposit money safely and withdraw it on demand . how can the government expect to mobilize domestic investment so long as ordinary russians retain their savings ( $ 50 billion , by most estimates , at home ? ) . russia ’s people need convincing themselves of the country ’s political stability as well .
for with gorbachev ’s ascendance , more and more people in east germany took to heart and abjectly fearful of his repressive regime . realizing this , they realized , east germany ’s realities were not rigid in stone after all ; that one can only have achieved the change that many brave dissidents and proponents of civil liberties trapped behind the wall demanded for so long a time . their commitment against the injustice of the communist regime is for me to be one of the best chapters in german history . without gorbachev and his singular courage , the stream of events across europe during the fall of 1989 never would have been possible . opening up hungary ’s borders to the fall and the search for refuge of east german citizens in prague and warsaw already shook the communist and stasi rule to their foundations .
as a result , some , though relatively speaking , not many , commit long and often perilous journeys to developed countries . and yet when they arrived at their rich world ’s doorstep , the welcome they receive has become increasingly mixed , as manufactured panic over the supposedly massive influentials of “ hazardous ” outsiders closes space for humane , pragmatic responses . what is needed is comprehensive strategies with a global reach , reflecting a sweeping vision that inspires and engages governments , aid communities , businesses , development institutions , civil-society groups , faith groups , academia , sports , and arts . responsibility-sharing , the modern international system foundation to protect refugees , is being replaced by responsibility-shifting countries , typically onto the least-developed countries . it is time to reboot global efforts to protect refugees .
munich – the euro crisis over the past two phases has gone so far this time around . it is worth remembering that they are showing how policymakers stumbled along , attempt to ride out fires without keeping silent about where their chosen path ran them . currently , markets remain calm , but this is only the beginning of the seventh phase of a crisis , during which europe becomes mired in imf debt . the seventh phase of the crisis is one of enhanced moral hazard , stemming from the run-up to debt . the sequence , so far , has been as follows .
from 1985 to 2005 , the boomsters made ten-year forecasts that exaggerated the chances for major positive changes in both financial markets ( for example , the dow jones industrial average of 36,000 ) and world politics ( such as tranquility in the middle east and dynamic growth in sub-saharan africa ) . they assigned probabilities of about 65 % to rosy scenarios , which materialized at a mere 15 % of the time . over the same period , doomsters performed even more poorly , exaggerating the chances of damaging change in each of the same venues where boomsters accentuated positive , plus a few more ( i still await the impending disintegration of canada , nigeria , sri lanka , indonesia , south africa , belgium , and sudan ) . they assigned probabilities of about 70 % to bleak scenarios , which materialized just 12 % of time . second , once the skeptics warned , over-claimers rarely pay penalties to be wrong .
margaret thatcher was the first to realize that britain ’s specialization of services – not just finance , but also laws , accountancy , media , architecture , pharmaceutical research , and so on – makes eu membership critical to the eu ’s single-market . the economic challenges of brexit would be overwhelming . the out campaign ’s main economic argument – that britain ’s ’s huge trade deficit is a secret weapon , because the eu would have more to lose than britain from the breakdown of trade relations – is flatly wrong . britain would need to negotiate access to europe ’s single market for its service industries , with eu manufacturers automatically enjoying the virtually unlimited right to sell whatever they want in britain under the world trade organization rules . it makes little economic difference to germany , france , or italy , whether britain is an eu member or simply in the wto .
answering them will require a debate that transcends issues like the separation of powers and judicial independence , and elucidates the appropriate relations between politics and religion . for this , understanding the historical context of the current crisis is critical . when turkey became a democracy in 1950 , the previous system ’s secular kemalist elites attempted to harness the army ’s power and the bureaucracy to control the elected government . in response , various religious groups , including the gülen movement , have encouraged their followers to take increasingly position themselves in the bureaucracy and the military . indeed , the turkish military , with the judiciary ’s support , explicitly intervened in the civilian government ’s functioning in 1960 , 1971 , 1980 , and 1997 , each time in the name of protecting secularism .
berlin – during the long night of negotiations over greece on july 12-13 , something fundamental to the cracked of the european union . on the surface , what went on was about averting a greek exit from the eurozone ( or , indeed , grexit ” ) , together with the dire consequences that would follow for greece and the monetary union . at a deeper level , however , what was at stake was the eu ’s role in europe of its most populous and economically powerful country . since then , europeans have lived in a different sort of eu . what changed that evening was germany , which europeans knew since the end of world war ii .
but the rise of arab military coalitions raises serious concerns , not least because an arab-led military history – unlike those carried out by the west in places like bosnia , kosovo , and even libya – contains no promising precedent . egypt ’s military intervention in yemen in the 1960s is a case in point . by the end of 1965 , egyptian president gamel abdel nasser sent 70,000 troops in yemen to support republican upheaval against royalist forces . such interventions were typically aimed at empowering proxy political forces over its military and political rivals , rather than averting humanitarian catastrophe or institutionalizing the non-violent conflict-resolution mechanism following the war . despite use of banned chemical weapons against yemeni guerillas from 1963 to 1967 – a first in the intra-arab conflict – egypt had failed to achieve its aims .
beps was undoubtedly an important step toward meeting some of the most egregious tax-avoidance strategies being used by multinational companies . for example , it began sharing among country-by-country tax bodies reports on these firms ’ profits and tax payments . today , there are 125 countries , forming a group called a “ inclusive framework . ” regrettably , however , that norm will apply only to very large multinationals , and news organizations will not become publicly available , depriving civil society of an indispensable tool of transparency . oecd countries have been led by the reform process , opening up to developing countries only after that initial package was unveiled .
a few of these entities are very large and profitable , and they enjoy the same legal advantages as corporations . likewise , while limiting the deductibility of net interest for us corporations , as many other developed countries have done , would broaden the tax base and discourage excessive reliance on debt finance , thereby increasing the tax burden on major investments in physical capital that are often debt-financed . lowering the tax preferences of noncorporate business entities ( such as partnerships ) that pass their incomes through to their owners ’ individual returns would also broaden the tax base embedded in corporate-income tax . pass-through companies now account for over 80 % of net business income ( by far the highest in the developed world ) . and even eliminating accelerated depreciation would not broaden the fiscal base enough to finance a rate cut , to 28 % .
israel ’s disengagement plan presents the evacuation of gaza ’s settlements as an end to 37 years of occupation . but , simultaneously , israel continues to have no attributes of sovereignty to gaza and will continue to be governed by existing arrangements , covering most aspects of security and civilian administration . this implies that an israeli army will continue to enter gaza , at will and maintain control over border crossings , airspace , and territorial waters . nor will the israeli military withdraw from the land strip along the palestinian-egyptian border . such conditions rule out any possibility of forging a security roadmap that receives the support of all factions , including hamas .
in others , such as greece , italy , bulgaria , hungary , estonia , poland , the philippines , and sri lanka , the decline exceeded 10 % . almost 60 years later , us agricultural employment in america peaked at 53 % of total employment . today , it is less than 3 % , and it is less than half that . in fact , since recently as 1980 , most oecd countries have experienced large declines in agricultural employment . in some , like portugal , malaysia , turkey , and indonesia , the share of farm employment has declined by more than 20 % .
islamabad – as pakistan ’s army gears up for its parliamentary election on february 18 , many observers are hopeful that the vote will usher in an era of stability and calm by lending popular legitimacy to the government . in reality , my party ’s support has been growing , with opinion polls now signifying that it is the second-most popular in the frontier province of the country – and regaining ground in each other ’s province . to be sure , contesting elections would provide an excellent occasion for my party to take issues to the people . but , sometimes , democracy is best served by refusing to participate . the upcoming elections , to be held under the country ’s illegal provisional constitutional order ( pco ) , implemented following president pervez musharraf ’s ’s ’s state of emergency on november 3 , are such a case in point that my party and its coalition partners are boycotting the vote .
likewise , they can not correct debt overhangs , repairing fractured home financing , or addressing medium-term fiscal-reform challenges on their own . the best that central banks can do is to buy time , albeit at escalating cost , for other policymaking entities to get their act together . and it is a good place to place greater emphasis on joblessness – an extremely good thing . just as bernanke and others would like otherwise , and just as bickering politicians are trying to dump policy responsibilities onto others , central banks lack the proper tools to deal with the component of an unemployment crisis that results from insufficient investment in education , skills training , and physical capital . likewise , they can not fix debt overhangs , repairing fractured home financing , or addressing medium-term fiscal-reform challenges on their own .
in reality , it is china ’s dam builders who are targeting most international rivers flowing out of chinese territory . most of china ’s internationally shared freshwater resources lie on the tibetan plateau that it annexed in the early 1950s . unsurprisingly , the plateau is the new center of chinese dam building . furthermore , it has recently slashed china ’s flow of tributary , pairing of bangladesh and northern india to build dams as part of a major hydroelectric project in tibet . indeed , china ’s ’s 13th five-year plan , released this year , is calling for a fresh wave of dam projects on the plateau .
washington , dc – ten years after the failure of lehman brothers , we know that multilateral action was critical of how to prevent the so-called great recession from turning even worse than it otherwise would have been . back then , it was the global financial system that grabbed itself . much to its credit , the united states eschewed retribution and reparations after world war ii . over the last 70 years , multilateralism had served the world well . today , it is the global trading system that is in jeopardy .
at the same time , schools were multiplying as attendance surged . other public services were better as well , with parents believing that their children would lead more prosperous lives than they and previous generations had . this was certainly true of my parents , who had sacrificed a lot to educate their nine children . but this was not farfetched transformation in a city in which people prefigured new identity , such as the nasserist , baathist , islamist , or communist , downplay their regional and tribal origins . they were not pleased when , in the 1970s , their elder sons became communists vigorously opposing hafez al-assad ’s brutal regime , president bashar al-assad ’s father .
gcc policymakers were correct to focus on increasing access and grants to quality health care . but the fair distribution of health-care services across native and migrant populations is often a thorny political issue . and now , policymakers must also devote more attention to health-care professionals themselves , ensuring that they are properly educated and trained for challenges that await the region . training programs in the gcc national health systems today does not target nearly enough in terms of innovation or systems thinking to improve efficiency and effectiveness . this results from high turnover relative to overwork , and an enhanced need for foreign health-care workers to fill sorely needed positions .
if the army collapses , it is algeria [ and ] france that collapses . ” the defining moment came when de gaulle , in military uniform , traveled on television to demonstrate his mastery of the new medium . “ well , my dear and old country , here we again face a heavy test , ” he said . if the state were to be bowed to the challenge that confronted , “ france was no more than the poor , shattered toy floating on the ocean of insecurity , ” he warned . insisting that self-determination was the only path ahead , he appealed to the army to reject even passive associations with an insurrection , and instructed that it was towards establishing public order .
iranian students should be encouraged to visit and study in asian universities , where they would discover how confident young chinese and india ’s students are about some future − which might well cause them to reflect on why young iranians do not share this optimism . what we do know with certainty is that the regime is divided . these divisions will allow for new powers that are emerging into iranian society . just when the world reached a consensus that ahmadinejad was merely an instrument of supreme leader ayatollah khamenei , ahmadinejad appointed a vice president opposed khamenei ’s wishes ( though he later retracted the appointment ) . so all means that all means that he would reach out to iranian society at all levels .
common funding , with all members paying a share on their gdp , is one tool that could be used to achieve more equitable burden sharing . for the last few years , nato ’s funding policy has been updated to allow common funding to be used as incentives for providing some theater-level permitting capabilities , like medical equipment , airports handling armies and supplies , or intelligence . how can one evaluate the light infantry ’s contribution against providing critical enablers like helicopters and air-to-air refueling tankers ? common funding , with all members paying a share in their gdp , is one tool that could be used to achieve more equitable burden sharing . traditionally , nato applied a “ cost policy ” policy : any member picked up all the costs of operating contributions that it made to alliance operation .
with so much potential dangers on the horizon , central bankers should at least consider rethinking the fundamental assumptions underlying their policies . moreover , one might argue that easy money alone has contributed to the unexpectedly intense disinflationary forces being identified in recent years . owing to easy financing and regulatory forbearance , aggregate supply rose as “ zombie ” companies proliferated . in the meantime , aggregate demand was constrained by debt headwinds , yet another result of easy monetary conditions . given such conditions , continuing to insist on monetary easing seems especially ill-advised .
ever since the terrorist attacks on new york and washington last year , the regime — once-central to american strategic interests in the region — has been made to feel dispensable about an america that drops strong hints that there are alternatives to saudi military bases , even saudi oil . al-qaeda ’s terrorist networks are perceived as arising directly from the fundamentalist wahhabi teaching that represents an integral part of the saudi regime . thus , among a bad set of options , the least bad seems to be cooperation with america . al-qaeda ’s terrorist networks are perceived as arising directly from the fundamentalist wahhabi teaching that represents an integral part of the saudi regime . yet cooperation with the us may not gain the al-sauds much , for saudi relations with america are strained to the breaking point .
others disagree , arguing that mind can protect themselves through banishing memories of the trauma from awareness , make it harder for victims to remember their most horrific experience until it is safe to do so many years later . while acknowledging that trauma is often all too memorable , these certain clinical trauma theorists assert that a condition known as “ traumatic dissociative amnesia ” leaves a large minority of victims unable to recall their own trauma , precisely because it was so overwhelmingly terrifying . nonetheless , such clinical trauma theorists do not argue that “ repressed ” or dissociated themselves from ” memories of horrific events are either inert or benign . how victims recall trauma is , indeed , the most controversial issue facing psychology , and against psychiatry today . many distinguished theorists of clinical trauma believe that battle , rape , and other terrifying experience are seemingly engraved into thinking , never to be forgotten .
as a child , mastering the brutal art of elé belé was important . in calcutta , when some younger kid went along , insisting on joining a game my friend played , we would let the new ba’id in , but only after whispering in each other ’s ears the words , elé belé . everybody knew that a goal scored by him was not really a goal at all . when a new kid arrived , accompanied by doting a mother , we might convey to one another , with a mere sight that the kid was an elé belé belé . elé belé is a gambler who thinks he is participating but , in truth , merely going through the motions .
northwestern university ’s robert gordon has argued , for example , that america ’s economy has been bound to slow , because today ’s technological innovations will not boost growth to the degree that they have historically had . as the growth pessimism of recent years fades , some of the warnings that have been made in recent years seem to have become outdated . northwestern university ’s robert gordon has argued , for example , that america ’s economy was bound to start slowing , because today ’s technological innovations will not spur growth to the degree that they have in the past . so , harvard ’s lawrence h. summers received a lot of attention from his argument that the world risked sliding toward “ secular stagnation , ” because the policy interest rate needed to propel desired investment into line with the desired savings rate was below zero . still , while the near-zero bound no longer seems to be the binding constraint , there are potential grounds for concern , one concerning debt levels .
india ’s government was pressing china for transparency , greater hydrological data-sharing , and a commitment not to repurpose the natural flow of any river , or to reduce cross-border flows of water . but even the joint expert-level mechanism , established in 2007 merely to provide “ interaction and cooperation ” on hydrological data , had prove little value at all . in fact , it was china that blew up most of the international rivers flowing out of tibet , whose fragile ecosystem is already in danger of global warming . the only rivers on which non-hydro-engineering works have undertaken so far are the indus , whose basin largely falls in india and pakistan , together with the salween that flows into burma and thailand . local authorities in yunnan province are considering damming the salween inside the quake-prone upstream region .
perhaps , but the majority of equilibration students view quantitative easing as textbook policies for driving the economy out of a zero-interest-rate “ liquidity trap , ” ” thereby forestalling the onset of persistent deflation , which would exacerbate debt burdens . but , in 2011 , most equilibration probably will take place via inflation . finally , currency chaos is the safest bet of all , with sharp and unpredictable swings in floating exchange rates around the world . as for china ’s renminbi , it still supports a highly political exchange-rate regime . in the end , china ’s rapid growth will have to fend off a significant rise in its currency , its domestic price level , or both .
which countries should take the lead in constraining china ’s revisionist ambitions ? with the us distracted by other strategic challenges not to mention its domestic presidential campaign , asia ’s other powers – specifically , an economically surging india and a more politically assertive japan – are its best economic-policy candidates . moreover , they have shown their shared aspiration to uphold the existing asian order . both india and japan are longstanding stakeholders in the us-led global order , emphasized in their own transnational relationships with values that america espouses , such as the need to maintain a stable balance of power , respect for the territorial and maritime status quo , and maintain freedom of navigation . without such cooperation , it would be constrained solely by domestic factors like a faltering us economy ; rising social discontent ; a worsening environmental crisis ; or vicious politics .
at the same time , developed countries should fulfill their obligations , under the un convention , to provide financial support and technology transfer to enable developing countries to address climate change effectively . the global financial crisis has undoubtedly exacerbated the climate-change challenge . but , because climate change is a more far-reaching and serious challenge , the world must not waver in its determination and commitment to address it . when it comes to sustainable development , and with measurable , reportable , and verifiable support in terms of funding , technology , and capacity-building , developing countries will assume nationally appropriate mitigation actions . moreover , the right mechanisms and institutional arrangements should be established for adaptation , financing , and technology transfer .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . florence – earlier this month , jyong kim – abruptly resigned his post as world bank president , abandoning a pillar of the rules-based international financial order with no leadership or direction . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us might well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . kim will join a private equity firm where he believes that he can “ make the greatest impact ” on major global issues , like climate change .
that is , arguably , what the bank of japan is now doing . boj governor harry haruhiko kuroda has declared that directly underwriting a budget deficit is not an option . but he has launched a policy of replacing boj government bonds on the boj ’s balance sheet once they have mature , with steadily increasing volume of government debt on the central bank ’s books . this comes after years of pronouncements by prominent economists , including berkeley ’s brad delong and former us federal reserve chair ben bernanke , that helicopter money offers a way to overcome deflation ( with which japan has struggled for decades ) . the fed ’s <UNK> ter-money version would be the purchase of zero-interest-rate government bonds that will not be repaid , either because they are perpetual bonds , or because they are rolled over each time they mature .
starting in the summer of 2015 , he embraced extremist rhetoric appealing to nativism , islamophobia , and rage against gop elites . trump ’s core supporters resemble tea partiers : overwhelmingly older , male , middle-class , and white . trump ’s own core supporters resemble those of tea partiers : overwhelmingly elderly , male , and middle class , as well as white . in reality , his voters ’ median annual income , at around $ 72,000 , fare well above america ’s median of $ 56,000 . media outlets provided as much as $ 2 billion worth of free coverage , helping him grab and hold a head in the polls and majority primaries .
once a group of human beings is viewed as obnoxious , attention shifts away from them as morally individual . they have become soulless bodies , and the morally circle closes down in order to exclude them . our response to soulless bodies is well illustrated in the story , after his death . descartes was known to have had an illegitimate , francine , who had died when he was five years old . according to the story , descartes was so struck with grief that he created an automaton , mechanical doll , built to appear identical to his dead daughter .
prime minister recep tayyip erdogan ’s reaction summed up turkish sentiment : “ these bombs are aimed at destroying our country ’s peace and stability . if these bombings are intended to send the message , i will sweep it off , and crush it under my legs . ” but terrorist attacks in istanbul are unlikely to generate any kind of nervous reaction in restricting democratic rights . if al-qaeda were behind the attacks , it grossly miscalculated . we are not going to change our course , and we are not . ”
nonetheless , khamenei ’s invocation of the law echoes the demands of the many conservative-pragmatists , who lean toward mousavi , who are not in a position to challenge khamenei ’s authority directly . if khamenei holds fast , mousavi can not gain the presidency ; on the contrary , he will continue to represent the hopes of the majority of iranians , who differ dramatically with his government . mousavi must persist in his legal campaign without compromising the trust that he gained from the majority of iranians . if khamenei holds fast , mousavi can not gain the presidency ; on the contrary , he will continue to represent the hopes of the majority of iranians , who differ dramatically with his government . mousavi must stand carefully for his legal campaign without compromising the trust that he obtained from the majority of iranians .
imagine that , with that question in mind , he likened the alternative of a prepayment lavish lifestyle ( with a private zoo and a pirate-ship restaurant ) with that of living comfortably onto a meaningful wage to which he was entitled , while knowing that he was governing with integrity , and was doing his best to improve ukraine ’s citizens ’ lives . but , though yanukovych thought primarily of his own interests , his quest for personal enrichment was irrational . moreover , there is something even more fundamental at stake than one of ’s own reputation . for example , imagine that he had stopped to ask himself what might have made him happier . a political leader had greater opportunities than almost anyone else to help people , and that was supposed to be yanukovych ’s top priority .
for his part , north korea has been far less forthcoming on the issue of its intentions , and it remains to be seen . indeed , a may visit to incheon comes within mixed messages . two days before north korean delegation arrived , the landmark committee on a peaceful reunification of korea ( cprk ) , formally a part of the korean workers ’ party , denounced the “ south korean puppet ” forces for severe violations of north-south joint statements and pressuring north-south ties to the worst disaster . it remains to be seen whether it is attempting to engage the rest of the world in a more constructive and persistent manner , or whether dprk officials and diplomats simply follow suit in order to deflect international attention from their country ’s reputation as nuclear weapons-monger and human-rights violence-peator . foodstuffy day goes , north korea ’s state-run news organization went on bellicose and derogatory language toward south korea and the us : “ lurking behind this being an american man ’s ulterior design to [ bush ’s more ] zealously a south korean puppet force in escalating the confrontation with the dprk in an unhinged bid to strain of the situation to an obscure pitch and ignite [ the second korean war ] . ”
yes , humans do specialize , and so should specialize . but specialization at the individual level in reality leads to diversification at a higher level . all benefit from a dentist and being a lawyer . when an idea is both counter-intuitive and actually false , it is often because it is true on a single level , but not on the level at which it is desired . everybody rewards from each other become good at various matters , and exchanging our knowhow with others .
gene-drive organisms are intended to spread indefinitely , and mosquitos , especially females , can surf air currents at relatively high altitudes ( 40-290 meters , or 131-951 feet ) , in which winds can blow them hundreds of miles away . this means that consent would have to be secured significantly beyond the release point.subscribe nowh4 { text-align : center ; } for limited time merely ; get infinite access toon point ; the big picture ; and ps archive , plus our annual magazine , for just $ 75 subscribeyet , in rural swallowing , near bana , near bana , told us that , despite meeting with target malaria , they still had questions about the adverse consequences of the mosquito effects . ” by contrast , several people i interviewed called for the experimental release of genetically modified mosquitos to be halted until the risks and effects had been adequately investigated , and civil society throughout burkina faso had received full informed.target malaria ’s lack of commitment to consent is reflected its own rhetoric , which eschews the unequivocal word “ consent , ” but uses terms regularly like “ engagement ” and “ community admission ” to each . this choice may indicate that the organization ’s leaders have already committed to pursue release.reinforcing this conclusion , after the un convention , target malaria attempted to draw a distinction between the requirement of free , prior , and informed consent in the context of medical research on individuals ( where it is demanded ) and in an public-health context . civil-society groups operating in and
they object not much , but many end up in jail . young people in countries as diverse as egypt and america are in effect compete with the young chinese and indians for their jobs . many more simply become discouraged and drop out of the labor force altogether : not in school , not at work , and not in looking for work . the world ’s labor markets are now interconnected . china ’s lower-paid , reasonably productive manufacturing workers , and high-quality infrastructure ( roads , power , ports , and communications ) have set the norm to compete globally .
but weakening the rule of law is not simply a domestic matter in hungary or poland . orbán has been scamming the eu for years , spurring other populists to pursue his own authoritarian aims , and with eu funds to boot . article 7 of the treaty of lisbon stipulates the suspension of a rogue eu member state with voting rights . but , because this “ nuclear option ” requires the unanimous vote of all eu member states , everybody knows that it will never apply . indeed , article 7 is such an ineffective deterrent serving rule-breakers ’ interests , by all but guaranteeing that they will not be punished .
in iraq , bush again pursued a unilateralist agenda , alleging that there was incontrovertible evidence of collusion with al qaeda , and that saddam had weapons of mass destruction . even before the invasion , there was overwhelming evidence that bush was lying . detection technology made it clear that there was no nuclear weapons in iraq , as chief un inspector hans blix pointed out . it is possible that bush read those messages , but then they were beyond his depth . it is also possible that he did not believe what he read .
all of these groups are driven by nihilistic rage , born of hostility toward non-sunnis and the rejection of modernity . sadly , as sri lanka ’s bombings and other attacks in asia show , the defeat of isis in syria and iraq has only intensified the challenge of terrorism , owing to the north ’s defeat in the region ’s syria and iraq , only to have intensified the challenge of terrorism , given that jewish fighters with operating training to stage savage attacks are now returning home . the presence of such returnees in sri lanka explains how the obscure local groups were able to carry out sophisticated , near-simultaneous strikes on three churches , and three hotels , employing animal-grade explosives . returnees are present in many other asian countries , too , from the philippines and indonesia to the maldives and uzbekistan . indeed , like osama bin laden and other al-qaeda leaders who slashed their teeth in the us-backed war against afghanistan ’s occupation , this new generation of jihadist veterans might haunt asia ’s safety , the middle east , and the west for years to come .
denver – angelina jolie ’s new movie , “ in the land of blood and honey , ” ” about the ethnic tensions that have produced europe ’s bloodiest conflict since world war ii . the film has already won two awards , and is an emerging box-office success , attesting to enduring interests , and perhaps mystique , that the balkan countries hold for international audiences , who were as horrified as they were confounded by the events of the 1990 ’s ’s . for those of us who were living and working in the region during that turbulent decades , the post-yugoslav wars remain fresh wounds . as jolie ’s film so ably demonstrates , neither the international community nor local leaders have made concerted efforts to prevent the carnage . one notable exception – perhaps the only exceptions – was kwasniewski , macedonia ’s president , who had died under his sleep on new year ’s day in the age of 94 .
moreover , this trend accentuates the challenges of weak productivity growth . in addition to shifting investment away from the uk , firms would start relocating more jobs , too . and this process is likely to accelerate , even if british prime minister theresa may manages to push her proposed exit agreement through parliament . meanwhile , there are even signs that companies with currently uk-based traffic providers have started to deploy their brexit contingency plans after a protracted period of wait , plan , and more wait . evidence of falling foreign investment , and this contributes to the economy ’s disappointing level of investment overall .
and he views globalization as a good thing ; but it understands that it needs to be managed through durable , efficient international agreements and institutions . he advocates local decision-making whenever possible and efficient , but also supports national and european-level decision-making , where the appropriate ; the key is that the processes should be flexible and allow for citizen participation . opinion polls currently are bouncing wildly out , owing to fillon ’s scandal and a surge in support for hamon among left-wing voters outside of the socialist party . he recognizes that shared sovereignty will make europe more influential , thereby empowering its own citizens . but if macron qualifies by the second-round run-off , he will pose an even bigger threat to le pen than an outright left-wing candidate would .
an unprecedented degree of solidarity now exists across europe , as was evident in collective mourning and the outpouring of sympathy toward spain ; we must build on that immense potential to establish a rationale of solidarity around the world . this is not nostalgia for the past glories of . it has been started to establish “ solidarités de fait accompli , ” promoting political stability and consolidating democracy and a european social model . having achieved these goals , europeans now want to make a positive contribution to world developments . the european project is a realist in responding to globalization and its challenges .
for starters , there is his answer to queen elizabeth ii ’s now-famous question : “ why has nobody not seen this coming ? ” krugman is a deft response that the new keynesians looked the other way . they had , after all , “ overlooked ” crucial institutional changes within the financial system . while this was regrettable , it has raised no “ deep conceptual ” issue ” – that is , it has not demanded that they reconsider their theory . theirs was a default not of theory , but of “ data collection . ”
in eastern europe , civil society is not only weaker ; it is also much more focused on areas like charity , religion , and leisure , rather than politically issues.moreover , in vastly different political landscape of europe ’s post-communist states , the left is feeling either extremely thin or wholly absent from the political mainstream . the same can not be said for kaczyński.another major difference : eastern europeans tend to hold more materialist attitudes than westerners , who have moved beyond concerns about physical security to embrace what sociologist ronald inglehart calls post-materialist values . one aspect of this distinction is that eastern european societies are more vulnerable to attacks on abstract liberal institutions , such as freedom of speech and judicial independence.this should not be overly startling . after all , liberalism in eastern europe is western imports , and so is it . indeed , notwithstanding trump and the brexit phenomena , america and the uk have deeply embedded the cultures of political and social liberalism .
as for the eurozone , we appear to have been overly optimistic , even as we foresaw a decline in potential growth to 1.5 % . nowadays , most forecasters have put the region ’s growth potential at about 1 % . unless germany can shift to a more federalized growth model , that projection will probably turn out to be right . yet , while most press coverage has focused on germany ’s falling exports and manufacturing output , the country ’s service sector remains robust . nonetheless , that is a big “ if . ”
given turkey ’s supposed upswing in the economy and its falling birthrate , experts predict a figure of about 2.7 million immigrants by that date . but the magnitude of such transfers would depend , however , on eu financial policies at the time of admission , the result of accession negotiations , and economic developments in turkey . in any case , the eu ’s practice of “ capping ” its budget would prevent an explosion in the financing costs entailed by turkey ’s accession process . at the same time , immigration should not be a cause for undue concern , either . human mobility is limited , and turkey ’s workers ’ party would probably be allowed to move freely within the eu only after a long period of transition , possibly not before 2025 .
more than most people realize , gospels treat recalcitrant jews -- those who refused to accept jesus as their messiah -- as the perpetrators of the crime that live on each generation . anti-semites often cite a passage in matthew where a jewish crowd cheers for christ ’s execution and voluntarily take on permanent guilt : " his blood is upon us and our children . " matthew then attributes the jews a recurrent lie explaining away the resurrection and disappearance of the body of jesus 's : " his disciples came at night , stealing him away while we slept . " the later evangelist , john concludes , because jews deny the christian messiah they must be “ the devil 's sons . " just as whites attribute extraordinary sexual powers to blacks , the christian western instinct for treating jews as us masters of the extraordinary forces -- including the power to kill deities and control of world finance .
thailand ’s decision last may to cut interest rates made it a safe gamble to bet against the bhat , opening salvo in a crisis . encouraged by the illusion of a strong reserve position , the thai central bank took on the banks ’ speculators , and it lost . but with overly the macho in hand , reform never did . so the notion that “ this country is different , ” ” ” ” that the rules of global finance did not apply , turned out to utter nonsense . by the time crisis struck , thailand looked as every other way as to turn from desperation to the imf .
that is a task for which non-governmental organizations and protest movements are ill-equipped : they can espousing public conscience but can not formally commit governments to . it was not least thanks to efforts by protest movements that france has now make concessions on both counts . hence the effort to rush the concessions that the protests extracted , the hour of governments arrived . one reason only other governments can do that is that they can do so , and their own actions can help . but how can such concessions , given under duress , be secured ?
as the top russian propagandist dmitry kiselev recently acknowledged , “ higher learning in the humanities ( and social sciences ) breeds social unrest . not surprisingly , he complained that “ too many ” russians are studying these subjects . but , because the regime is constrained by greater resources to silencing an informed government , the popular majority will suffer economically . likewise , russia ’s muslim-majority population will not become well-informed overnight . compounding the challenge , the cohorts of informed elites in russia are rising .
london – officials at the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) have long insisted that , if it does , china will not weaponize the renminbi . and yet , implicit in their promise not to manipulate the currency over strategic ends , is their ability to do so if it is so desired . china ’s monetary policy has come to the fore now that us president donald trump has imposed tariffs on an array of chinese goods . many are wondering whether china will respond to trump ’s trade war by threatening a currency war . if it does , the world should call its bluff .
my professional focus is on economics , so i emphasized the role of growth . but that clearly is not the only factor behind the rise of populist nationalism . the fact that developed countries are changing culturally also matters , perhaps even more so . in the us , for example , the foreign-born share of the population has risen from 5 % in 1960 to around 14 % today . adding to the labor force ’s size and productivity would appear to be the fact that immigrants also often complement native-born skills , helping them earn more .
that shift , in turn , clears the way for a generational change of leadership , and , more fundamentally , a transition to post-oslo policy . most prominent such figure is marwan barghouti , the student movement leader at birzeit university in the 1980 ’s and one of the principal organizers of the first intifada , which resulted from his deportation by israel in the late 1980 ’s . naturally , in 2002 , he was arrested and sentenced to a long prison term on charges leading a second intifada that advanced more than two years earlier by ordering some of his military attack . the plo ’s old guard men like yasser arafat and abbas , who led the freedom organization of exile , and then returned home with the oslo accords , dominated the palestinian political landscape to this day . having deviated the scene , palestinian leaders who had been born under occupation and spent time in israeli prisons will most likely fill the vacuum .
yet , to defeat the far right , putin ’s regime will be forced to assume its stand on more or less liberal ideological grounds . this will not be easy for a regime based on the twin pillars of the bureaucracy and the security apparatus . judging by putin ’s most recent address to the parliament , his regime is acutely conscious of the dangers that populist nationalists pose . it is likely that the regime will try to counter this eruption of nationalism , while sustaining its powerful statist rhetoric . this will not be easy for a regime based on the twin pillars of the bureaucracy and the security apparatus .
today , coal and natural gas delivers more than two-thirds of the country ’s electricity needs , with renewables accounting for more than 5 % . that new load would easily replace the country ’s six nuclear reactors . in taiwan , tsai is as committed as it is . last year , responding to public opposition to nuclear energy in the wake of japan ’s 2011 fukushima meltdown , tsai vowed to make taiwan nuclear-free by 2025 . tsai had called on the share of renewables to rise to 20 % annually over the next eight years , with capacity coming mainly from solar and offshore wind .
rudolf diesel his first engine , established in the late 1800s , had run on fuel sourced from peanut oil . only in recent decades have biofuels regained its initial appeal , owing to efforts to secure affordable energy , generate income , and mitigate the dependence that ford had warned . the pioneers of biofuels would probably be surprised by how little they contribute to total world fuel supplies today . as producing these fuels grows , we will require the kinds of policies , programs , and capacities that ensure that they are used sustainably , without distorting food markets , or compromising food security , which will always be the top priority . henry ford once benito florida , in the hope of purchasing land tracts to plant sugar cane , has argued that the united states will not tolerate widespread pollution from burning fossil fuels or implied dependency on oil to produce gasoline .
one reason that free trade defeated protectionism in britain a century ago was that its supporters appealed to people of emotions and identities , not just their rational interest in more wealth and cheap food . in towns , displays in shop windows illustrated the cost of tariffs to ordinary consumers . many britons believed in a “ free trade empire ” of its own making . others had fanned the flames of anglo-german antagonism , caricaturing protectionist germany as the barbarian corporation surviving on horse-sausages and dog-meat ; lloyd lloyd lloyd ’s future prime minister told audiences that he was more worried about german sausage than he was of germany ’s navy . liberals and radicals organized travel showing room , color posters , and political entertainment .
when the bubble burst , it left in its wake woefully expensive economies that lost their competitiveness . it will transform member countries into debtors and creditors into one another , stoking even more animosity . the inordinately lax regulatory environment has proven deadlier , encouraging northern european banks to walk over their balance sheets with south european governments and bank bonds . europe should now use the calm between storm fronts to re-think europe ’s currency union from the ground up . the effort to establish the european equivalent of the us dollar and impose a de facto fiscal union atop it , despite the absence of a common european state , is bound to fail .
moreover , inflation in some asean countries may rise with the coming of floating exchange rates . indeed , the latter now stands at just over 15 % of gdp . the hits chinese exports probably take , owing to the region ’s currency depreciations , nevertheless , unlikely to be felt instantly . rival asian economies will need to be stabilized before they can push their exports aggressively . because of this , their currencies ’ competitive competitiveness can be lessened .
moreover , there are real disagreements within america ’s bureaucracy when it is to judge the threat that al qaeda in mali poses to us interests . operationally , it is confined to isr , and it does n’t engage in ground troops . for europeans , the situation in the us is worrying on two counts . symbolically , it means backing the initial and significant efforts carried out by others . following its war from above thus has operational our symbolic significance .
even so , argentina went bankrupt because wealthy argentines spirited their assets outside the country , virtually out of the government 's reach , while poor argentines refuse to pay the taxes needed to satisfy foreign creditors ' claims . the private sector had large foreign assets , while the government held roughly equal amounts of foreign liabilities . on the other hand , where a country 's foreign assets are held not by households , but by institutions such as pension funds , they could be well specified and taxed . the private sector had large foreign assets , while the government held roughly the same amounts of foreign liabilities . this analysis suggests that the conduct of the “ excess [ current-account ] imbalances which is to be introduced under the sustained reform of eurozone governance goes in the right direction .
fissures in barcelona , real madrid , chile , and milan are now household names . but exposure to foreign tv stations also means that many disillusioned algerians are looking toward partition to italy , france , or germany as their only employment hope and a decent life . will the months ahead bring a genuine change in algeria ? will social and economic reform be undertaken to secure the regime ’s equitable distribution of the country ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s oil and gas riches ? disappointed in their own political leaders , algerians are guided largely by their shared love of soccer .
the most plausible explanation is a combination of the two ; for both he and bush pursued the same “ you ” “ starve the beast ” political strategy that calls for tax cuts to rein in revenues , thereby forcing the public sector downsize the debt . indeed , it remains far from clear what led greenspan to his support for a tax cut . was that massive economic malfeasance or was , or was he currying favor with the bush administration ? lower interest rates worked , but not so much , because they boosted investment , but because it led households to refinance their mortgages and fueled a housing price bubble . in short , as greenspan debunk , he leaves behind an american economy burdened by high household and government debt and fragile balance sheets , a legacy that is already conducive to global financial instability .
ethiopia is hardly the only recent example of how conflict over land rights can set the stage for political and humanitarian crises . a historic drought may have created the conditions for syria ’s civil war in 1994 . competition for arable land contributed to the rwandan genocide of 1994 . and food insecurity stemming from land mismanagement is an important factor driving migrants into europe . land-linked issues will continue to threaten global stability , especially when the effects of climate change exacerbate existing problems .
because they lead far more carbon-intensive lifestyles than everybody else , they would contribute far more per capita to the carbon dividend . more to the point , they would pay off far more than they take back , whereas the poorest 60 % of americans would get back more than they had cast themselves in . in short , a carbon dividend would distribute money from a predominantly wealthy , high representative polluters to a predominantly low level – and a middle-income polluters , all while reducing their co2 emissions . on its own , it would represent a smart step in the right direction , one that would not invite the “ yellow vest ” reaction . but do n’t allow anyone to tell you it ’s a silver bullet .
rather , she simply understands that for an economy that needs to remain competitive , bad-mouthing europe and the ecb sends flawed signals . a further lesson for sarkozy from germany is that an enlightened corporate state needs supportive political leadership , just as accommodating trade unions . german chancellor angela merkel has made no speeches attacking the strong euro and the european central bank ’s mandate for price stability . this does not mean that merkel is a free market capitalist , there is little evidence of this . on the contrary , she supports an independent ecb , and has allowed germany ’s trade unions and companies to know that they will have to live with a strong currency and deflationary monetary policies .
germany ’s location alone makes nationalism a bad idea ; and beyond that , its most fundamental political and economic interests depend on a strong , prosperous eu , particularly in trump ’s age . and the eu ’s outlook is not that of a hegemon ; rather , it is distracted by the rule of law , integration , and a peaceful reconciliation of the interests of member states . because of its geopolitical weight , germany ’s eu perspective is now synonymous with italy . germany is in the same boat as every other europeans with respect to security . just as no french security could be established without germany ’s , no german security could exist without poland .
there is no dispute that ect can cause a short-term memory loss . but the critics have found it hard to prove memory or other cognitive problems that endure beyond three months . indeed , very few of those receiving ect also do not receive benzodiazepines , which cause significant autobiographical memory problems when it is given its own , and antipsychotic drugs , which worsen lists of names or telephone numbers , and other comparable problems . the same is true for antidepressants . nor can enduring autobiographical memory disturbances and inability to remember the lists be readily attributed to ect , because ect rarely receives its own .
so why should we think that they would suffice in an far more complex world of sovereign-debt restructurings ? in particular , cacs have suffer from the problem of the “ aggregation . ” if they were , no domestic bankruptcy laws that spells issues like precedence and fair treatment would have been enforced . but no government found cacs adequate to resolving domestic restructuring . so why should we think that they would suffice in an even more complex world of sovereign-debt restructurings ? if a cac requires , say , 75 % of the holders of every bond class , the vultures could purchase 26 % of only one bond class , and block an entire restructuring of themselves .
holding talks in the context of today ’s atmosphere of mistrust , mutual recrimination , and fearmongering will require substantial political capital investments for a lasting period . we have arrived at this point precisely because both russia and the west have spent more than a decade searching for unilateral advantages , and eschewing negotiated compromises . moving beyond current , adversarial approaches to finding common ground will take time . the eu should bolster the case for open dialogue and tough negotiations – precisely what has long been a lack of western policy on ukraine ’s crisis and the pursuit of a post-soviet eurasian region . a quick deal will not be possible , either .
but it also represents the global gold standard in many fields , including technology , defense , and research and development . america ’s federal government ’s size and power grew only very slowly until the 1930s , when the new deal that included federal programs , public works projects , and financial reforms and regulations were enacted in response to the great depression . at the same time , america ’s federal government expanded again during and after wwii , reflecting the country ’s new global hegemony and the prosperity of its middle class ( created in no small part by the new deal to support unionization and house ownership ) . the government assumed a larger role in areas ranging from defense and foreign policy to health care and social welfare . in contrast to china ’s statist legacy , america ’s historic experience instilled in its citizens and leaders an allegiance to free press , including free markets and local autonomy .
abdelhamid absolution , who led the november 2015 paris attacks , claimed that he was one of 90 isis-trained terrorists in europe . france has had more than 230 deaths and around 700 injured , while turkey has endured more than 220 deaths and some 900 injured . the exact number of european fighters receiving training from isis and back home remains unknown . as a result , isis has reportedly trained 47,600 fighters for “ external operations ” that cover urban guerilla warfare , improvised explosive devices ( ieds ) , surveillance , countersecurity , and forgery . isis has so far hit france and turkey the hardest .
to account for learning crises in many developing countries , governments and development agencies should look for stronger opportunities to shape strategic partnerships with non-state providers . fortunately , the afghan government has begun opening its doors to innovative ngo models , like brac ’s community-based education program . in bangladesh , for example , schools run by brac employ female teachers ( key to boosting girls ’ enrollment ) , and outperform government-run schools in ways that learn outcomes . yet the shortage of qualified female teachers makes scaling up such efforts harder to impossible . women account for just a third of all teachers in the afghan primaries , owing partly to extraordinarily low female literacy .
these economic shocks have exposed the immense costs for each country ’s sectarian-based political system . in all four of these countries , the severity of economic mismanagement reflects the long-standing use of state expenditures to finance the regime ’s allies and clients , rather than benefiting the entire population . such regimes have dominated each country ’s private sector through cronyism , not only to extract and distribute client rents , but also to block the emergence of autonomous entities that could finance opposition movements . as a result , capital and skills have been misallocated , the business climate has worsened , and the level of competition , innovation , and gdp growth has suffered . and demonstrators , fueled by economic grievances , were buffeted by improvement in broader security conditions , owing to the defeat of the islamic state and the wind-down of war in syria .
but the decreased flexibility in response to economic shocks will surely test this . currently , it boldly emphasizes the disparate , even discordant , fiscal reactions now being embraced by european union governments . this raises the old question of whether a currency union can work without a fiscal union , or at least stronger , more binding fiscal rules ( the maastricht deficit liabilities are too easy to violate ) . to that we must add coordinated financial and bailout policies as deposits flow quickly across borders , in response to national guarantees and insurance in the european zone . will a euro ’s second decade be as prosperous as its first one ?
but imagine a world in which textbooks are continually updated and corrected by a legion of contributors . today , pluto remains on the list of planets in science textbooks , and who knows how long it will take to direst it . but imagine a world in which textbooks are continually updated and corrected by a legion of contributors . such a world was just a dream ten years ago , ten years ago , and we were just a generation ago . today , pluto remains on the list of planets in science textbooks , and who knows how long it will take to be eliminated .
one powerful school of thought that emerged almost as the killing began in 1989 is that the more radical student leaders were reckless . a violent crackdown , it should have been obvious , was inevitable . indeed , such school proponents often add , china was not yet ready for democracy in the first place . by provoking the regime , the student had derailed any chance of a slow process of political reform established by their more moderate elders carefully set in train . if only they could possibly take hold in a number of ways in this regard .
yet international donors are wringing their legs both in meeting existing pledges and in making new ones . and all un support will not stop the killing . delivery issues abound in war zones , but not everywhere . it is too late for nonpartisan instruments of coercion to have much effect , though the security council ’s threats against the international criminal court ’s prosecution of atrocity crimes – including any use of chemical weapons – must remain on the table . but what of the military/response options still strongly favored by many policymakers and pundits ?
for example , when trump called for a reduction of american military involvement in the middle east , he merely echoes obama . yet , by reneging on the nuclear deal with iran , trump has made war in the region all the more likely . trump ’s global trade war is equally self-defeating . by slapping tariffs on america ’s closest allies , he is virtually driving them into china ’s arms . and by stepping out of his way to alleviate north korea ’s international isolation while gaining almost nothing in return , he has reinforced china ’s position in east asia .
each country could establish a council representing public goods ( transportation , public works , customs ) , and major users ( exporters and logistics companies ) that must work together to identify ways to lower the cost of logistics . it is just as vital , if , say , for committees to be developed along similar lines in each country ’s provincial domains . merchandise need not pass through the capital , as it does in most latin american and caribbean countries with the associated cost hikes . regions , then , can be turned to growth engines . communication between users and government services has been vitally important to achieving any real improvement .
the fdp ’s ideas have widespread support within germany and among german economists ( and shared by a number of other european economists ) . and they are in line with positions taken by germany ’s ministry of finance under previous administrations . but policies that might work in a perfect world of efficient , resilient financial markets might be dangerous if pursued in highly imperfect real-world markets . much as we saw a decade ago , very different financial institutions operating in an environment of insecurity can become fragile and collapse , imposing high costs on society . the idea of a temporary euro exit is especially ill-advised .
will it revert to robust growth , or will the us experience an anemic recovery , à la japan in the 1990 ’s ? right now , i have cast my vote for the latter course , particularly given that an enormous debt legacy is likely to dampen enthusiasm for the big stimulus that is wanted . many wall street financiers , having bought their gobs of cash , go back to their fiscal religion of low deficits . without a sufficiently large stimulus ( just above 2 % of gdp ) , we will be experiencing a vicious negative downward spiral : a weak economy will mean more bankruptcies , which will push stock prices and interest rates up , undermine consumer confidence and weaken banks . on the whole , consumption and investment will be slashed further .
prague – global free trade provides the most opportunities to improve human welfare over the next decade and a half . it has already helped lift more than one billion people out of poverty in the last quarter-century . lowering trade barriers even more could double the average incomes of the world ’s poorest parts of the world over the next 15 years . yet , in rich countries today , that sentiment has turned against free trade . yes , there are costs to freer trade that must address better ; but the costs are vastly outweighed by the benefits .
when muslims make up a minority , they have tended to co-exist peacefully with other religions ; but where their populations are substantial ( as in nigeria ) , they tend to assert themselves . nevertheless , nigeria ( and perhaps zanzibar ) remains an exception in islamic assertiveness in sub-saharan africa , the idea of an active “ islamic world ” includes only a relatively limited segment of sub-saharan african muslims . muslims in sub-saharan africa , however , like most muslims worldwide , exhibit the “ us versus them ” mentality . whatever ethnic and other divisions are at stake , “ the us versus them ” sentiment has played a big role in fomenting religious conflict in nigeria . whether they like it or not , large majorities of sub-saharan african muslims are represented by states that are mostly secular , christian , or dominated by other religions .
and it is an obsession rooted very large in the current one . “ we forget that growth was essentially zero for centuries , ” he writes . “ one percent of real growth means doubling your economy ’s size every 30 or 35 years . piketty sees this as grounds “ to be somewhat optimistic . ” indeed , piketty argues that our “ obsession with growth ” simply serves as an excuse for doing nothing about health , education , or redistribution .
this language represents a sharp departure from that of previous eu communiqués . for good reason , a growing number of europeans are sensitive to human-rights issues in hong kong , xinjiang , and elsewhere . europeans , too , rightly worry about economic issues . as the european commission has warned earlier this year ( under its predecessor leadership ) , china is “ “ “ an economic competitor ” in the pursuit of technological leadership and a systemic rival promoting alternative governance models . ” the next year will be critical of this approach .
left-leaning democrat might do the same , given the left ’s fascination with risky ideas that promote massive amounts of fed-funded debt . the final question that must be considered when assessing the american presidential candidates is whom each would appoint as the america federal reserve ’s next chair . though highly criticized by democrats for trump ’s approach , they are not proposing further trade liberalization . center-leftists – amy klobuchar , pete buttigieg – might reappoint powell , who had done fine jobs or elect a moderate democratic economist like former fed vice chair alan blinder or former us treasury secretary larry summers . trump , who has repeatedly criticized incumbent us chair jerome powell for pursuing excessively monetary-policy easing , would most likely elect a dovish candidate .
oslo , for example , ran an article about a man – identified only by his first name , the danny – whom the warlord carjacked three days after the attack . the globe ’s one-source report proved nothing to do with and was unverifiable by other reporters or citizen – but that suggested a lot , leading , incidentally , to the tally of equally unverifiable news that new york was targeted . in charles savage ’s recent account of guantánamo “ uprising , ” ” the new york times credulously reproduced the “ arsenal ” that gitmo officials displayed in an ongoing video . other recent “ terror ” – related reporting – was as flimsy as it was . the boston globe , for example , ran an article about a man – identified only by his first name , the danny – whom the brothers ’ carjacked three days after the attack .
this poses a serious challenge to the sdgs to end extreme poverty “ in all its forms everywhere , ” ” and it strengthens the case for policies and investments specifically in rural areas , which are where poverty-reduction measures are needed more and will have a bigger impact . a second study , funded by ifad and recently released by the international institute for food policy research , examines the worldwide economic downturn starting in rural populations in 2012 . it finds that , following the downturn , an additional 38 million people are expected to remain in extreme poverty in 2030 than would have otherwise , with middle-income farm households particularly at risk . at the same time , those gains have not been evenly distributed , with sub-saharan africa seeing far fewer progress than other areas . rural areas ’ progress so far reveals their future potential .
these policies could then be entirely subjugated to the requirements of the gold standard , as well as free capital mobility . but , once the political franchise enlarged , the working class organized itself , and mass politics became the norm , domestic economic goals began to contest ( and overtake ) external rules and constraints . the classical case is britain ’s short-lived return to gold in the interwar period . the attempt to reconstitute the pre-world war i model of globalization collapsed in 1931 , when domestic politics forced the british government to assume domestic reflation through the gold standard . the architects of the bretton woods regime kept that lesson in mind when rescheduled the world ’s currency system in 1944 .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . washington , dc – more than 60 % of all employed women in sub-saharan africa work on agriculture . yet the region ’s women farmers often reap meager harvests not because of inclement weather or poor soil quality , but because of their gender , or , more accurately , because of a dense web of laws , policies , programs , and customs to place them at significant disadvantage . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world .
after all , a substantial share of incoming refugee population is said to be educated , motivated , and committed to building a better future in their new houses . and , already , labor-market flexibility has been undermined by structural inertia , including the difficulty of retooling and retooling staff , particularly that the long-unemployed in large parts of the country . though pockets of high european unemployment exist today , the ratio of working people to elderly persons will drop significantly in the longer term . beyond the need to ease the human misery that fills the television screens and front pages of newspapers lies the imperative not to miss the significant medium-term opportunities that migration provides . as germany ’s government and some corporate leaders , including the ceo of daimler-benz , have already recognized , an open-minded approach to refugee absorption and integration can help mitigate some of europe ’s protracted structural challenges .
and when access to multiple worthwhile benefits , from health insurance to pensions is made conditional on registering their business and paying taxes , they will have a powerful reason to formalize their work . digitization could enable the formal sector to offer a spectrum of worker benefits and accountability for employers . if , for example , an independent worker drives one-hour for uber and walks a one-hour dog on rover on rover , each platform would contribute an equal amount toward its or her benefits . with a digital commerce estimated to have benefited at least 80 million young africans by 2030 , opportunities for gig workers will grow . digitization could enable the formal sector to offer a spectrum of worker benefits and responsibilities for employers .
for starters , they must take action to protect the rural environment , ensure animal welfare , and improve education , knowledge transfer , and entrepreneurial training for farmers and farming workers . at the same time , british policymakers must move beyond ad hoc responses to natural and man-made disasters by building more effective , sound protection systems . implementing ( and financing ) such initiatives will require sustained political will . for example , they could facilitate the provision of farmers ’ affordable agricultural insurance , or create some type of mutual-assistance scheme . at the same time , the uk must ensure that its agricultural sector can reap the new technology .
frankfurt – the european central bank is at the center of a large , risky experiment . key policy interest rates have remained near zero for six years now . crisis management has given rise to large market distortions , with certain segments ’ performances no longer explainable by fundamental economic data . financial markets are flooded with liquidity , too . the unintended consequences of this policy are becoming increasingly visible – and will become more tangible with the american federal reserve ’s exit from post-2008 ultra-loose monetary policy .
when improving a machine interface , form is key . designs are inspired by cognitive science , the arts , even the sciences fiction of science . it is easy to forget that years ago telephones had no buttons or cordial – you had to pick up the handset and ask a operator to reach the connections . we ’ve seen hints about the new paradigm in apple ’s iphone permitting gestural finger motions , but in the intelligence community , concept visualization can be so radical that most ordinary users can barely recognize what it was . the telephone dial did not appear until 1919 , when the first group of self-designated “ user-designated ” gendered researchers ” at western electric considered what the most counterintuitive form should be .
as plato tells us , prometheus ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s name implies “ foresight , ” because he always looked ahead , unlike his carefree brother , epimetheus , whose name implies asian aid . but epimetheus was charmed by pandora , and heedlessly welcomed her into his lifetime . as the more confident , and justifiably paranoid , of the two , prometheus tried to alert its brother not to accept zeus ’s ’s dangerous gift . but that is not yet the whole story . it was only later that he came to realize his terrifying error .
indeed , downplaying the magnitude of gravity in the latest crisis is simple : one can argue that the imminent cause of breakdown when examined closely , does not really all that serious . the crux of the problem is that the draft constitution would give the eu a new , far easier method for taking majority voting in council of ministers . under the eu ’s nice summit three years ago , each member state holds a certain multiple vote , weighted according to population , but small countries are protected by having proportionally more votes than the large ones . the chances are known for themselves to be good for the chances that they will do so again . this system is well known for having qualified majority voting .
rome – prices of many staple foods increased dramatically during 2007-2008 , creating a food crisis for many poor and developing countries . powerful economic growth and expansionary monetary policies further boosted the trend , as it was protectionist measures , such as export restrictions . international prices of maize , rice , and wheat reached their peak in 30 years , causing political and economic instability – and leading to food riots in many countries . rome – prices for many staple foods increased dramatically during 2007-2008 , creating a food crisis for many poor and developing countries . several factors contributed to the crisis , including high oil prices , high demand for farm crops , falling global stockpiles of food commodities , and lower cereal production .
the similarities with the views of the islamic state are glaring . in a video produced after the struggle for mosul dam in august , the group called for the “ end of sykes-picot , ” ” ” and proclaimed the need to redraw the middle east ’s western-imposed political map . indeed , turkey has been offering logistical support to the islamic state , even as it allowed the group ’s murderous members to massacre thousands of civilian kurds and yazidis in syrian town of kobani , on turkey ’s doorstep . this highlights yet another issue on which turkey and the islamic state converge : the kurds . erdoğan ’s unwillingness to restore turkey ’s primacy in the sunni world is driven him to collude with this challenge to the chinese-devised regional order .
but perhaps no incumbent leader is more susceptible to misbegotten science and half-baked conspiracy theories than america ’s president and wannabe authoritarian , donald trump . since entering the white house , the lunacy has only grown . so far , he has antagonized from claiming outright that these markets are acting at the behest of world jewry ” ( the architects , many turkish islamists , believe , from the 1908 young turk ’s revolution and the secular republic that arose after world war i ) . but his core supporters hear the dog trumpian behind his condemnations of the forces of finance , forces that now appear to be demanding higher interest rates . it should never be forgotten that trump astutely his drive into us politics by promoting the racist “ birther ” argument that argued that then-president barack obama was not born in the us and thus did not qualify for an office that he held .
likewise , the us is doing everything possible to ensure that ukraine is attractive to its foreign investors . in the energy sector , we are privatized by state-owned energy distributors . ten leading multinational energy firms , indeed , will participate in privatized privatization of the first group of companies . ensuring full transparency in their tender processes , and eliminating the problems that have so far experienced in the past , western bureaucracies are being assisting us . for our intent is to attract large western energy firms with experience in this field as strategic investors .
now , however , those countries are once again espousing forms of state capitalism and a return to industrial policy ( encouraged just like the 2008 global financial meltdown , which signaled a new rationale for returning government intervention ) . even so , chinese policy choices have dramatically influence other asian countries , with china ’s “ state-capitalist ” economic model having now mimicked elsewhere in the region . of course , japan , korea , and singapore had similar policy models in the past ( albeit later adapted them in line with their gdp growth ) . in japan , the postal services that were privatized are supposed to be re-nationalized , and the role of government finance is strengthened . japan ’s air lines , which were nearly bankrupt , rescued a government bailout , a facility that seemed increasingly common to many .
without the ecb ’s commitment since 2012 to prevent sovereign-debt yields from soaring , there would have been persistent risks to the periphery of the eurozone , and , indeed , to the european union ’s entire edifice , of sovereign-debt defaults . by contrast , many emerging-market economies , heavily dependent on oil-export earnings , were stressed by the commodity-price reset , sluggish growth in advanced economies , and slower growth in china . capital flight would materially add to their plight – in some cases disastrously so . since the 2008 financial crisis , the world has grown accustomed to such linkages and spillovers . but , at the same time , europe has benefited , in fact , from falling commodity prices .
let the world remember that gaza ’s crisis was a manmade catastrophe . and let the world take note that conditions are even worse today than at any time since the occupation started . seventy-nine percent of gaza ’s households live in poverty ; eight out of ten depend on food assistance . water and wastewater systems are failing ; garbage is accumulating in street . almost half the labor force is unemployed ; local industry has imploded .
new york – europe needs to accept responsibility for the lack of a common asylum policy that turned this year from the growing influx of refugees from a manageable problem into yet another political crisis . the eu needs a comprehensive plan for responding to the crisis , one that reasserts effective governance above the flows of asylum-seekers so they take place in a safe , orderly manner , and at a pace that is reflected in europe ’s capacity to absorb them . asylum-seekers were the main victims , and they were the main victims , but they were mainly told . this precipitated panic among asylum-seekers , the general public , and the authorities in charge of law and order . every member state has selfishly focused on its own special interests , often acting against the interests of others .
the economists would admit that xi ’s campaign also conveniently removed many of his potential rivals . but they would argue that his strengthened position now enables him to replace a credit-financed growth model with something more sustainable . this is where the technologists come in , by offering new ways to correct or avoid possible mistakes . despite xi ’s success in consolidating his power and extending his hold on it indefinitely , there is reason to doubt that he would be prepared to risk a new economic model if sustainability proves incompatible with maintaining rapid growth . of course , whether they are right about that remains to be seen .
the american economist martin feldstein wrote in 1997 that monetary union creates conflict within europe . at the time , it was being derided and treated as entrenched opposition to the european project ’s opponent . alas , his insight was correct : european countries today are at loggerheads not despite the common currency , but precisely because of it . history suggests that the international disputes over debt and transfers constitute a serious danger . in the 1920 ’s and 1930 ’s , representatives of european states devoted countless meetings to resolving them ( at that time primarily german reparations ) .
still , there have been more moments to favor huxley ’s vision of political order over that of orwell . whereas the main distinction in nineteen eighty-four is between rulers and ruled , in a brave new world , people are divided into different social orders , defined by disparate tastes and lifestyles . the same could be said of china today , where gaps between rich and poor , rural , and urban , and urban culture are so great that it is much harder than they were before for a people from a varied walks of life to feel that they share common plights and goals . of course , no single novel provides a perfect lens through which to view any one society . sometimes , like the recent violence to quell south chinese peasants protesting official land grabs , the ccp still shows its willingness to take advantage of “ boot-on-the-face ” suppression .
this suggests that the progressive politician who envisage an active government role in reshaping economic opportunities face an uphill battle in winning over voters . the fear of losing that battle may explain the timidity of the left ’s response . yet the lesson of recent studies is that beliefs about what government can and should be do are unimmutable . they are susceptible to persuasion , experience , and changing circumstances . there are similar trends , too , in many european countries , notably southern european ones .
copenhagen – in one of his first public policy statements as america ’s president-elect , barack obama has focused attention on climate change , making clear both his priorities and the facts on which those priorities rest . according to obama , “ few challenges facing america and the world are more urgent than fighting climate change . ” such statements are now commonplace for most political leaders around the world , even as it neglects to address the question of how much the us can do to help america and the world through climate policies versus other policies . obama ’s policy outline was presented through videos to california governor arnold schwarzenegger ’s governors ’ ’ ’ ’ global warming summit and was again shown in poznan , poland , to the leaders assembled to flesh out a global warming roadmap . sadly , both are weak or even wrong .
thus , whereas the “ outer empire ” allowed for convergence among the united kingdom ’s various national identities around a common british identity , “ inner empires ” were decidedly english . but the fusion of identities was always incomplete , not least in ireland , where the faltering demise from independence seemed to advanced a century later , through the continued uncertainty created by the northern irish “ backstop ” to the east irish . before the creation of overseas empires – first in north america and the caribbean , then in india and southeast asia – the englishmen built a land empire by expanding from northern irish business to the northwest . its “ civilizing ” mission created a sense of collective significance , as it did the narrative of uninterrupted democratic and economic progress . still , for centuries , the british empire generated riches , supplied raw material , and created globe-spanning professional opportunities for all inhabitants of the british isles .
moreover , a concerted anti-corruption campaign could serve as a unifying force in countries with deep political divisions . while a majoritarian rule can ride roughshod over the interests of minorities , corrupt regimes steal from everyone . that is why , over the last year , corruption provoked mass protests , from bucharest to brasilia . liberty of speech and other basic human rights is not elitist luxuries , as authoritarians claim . they are indispensable for safeguarding free societies .
trump ’s geopolitical and economic views should be judged against this background of disenchantment , rather than by any moral or economic standard . the promise to work with russia to end the savage conflict in syria is reasonable , although this implies the victory of bashar al-assad ’s regime . in other words , trumpism might be the solution to liberalism ’s crisis of liberalism , not a portent of its disintegration . trump ’s promise to work with russia to end the savage conflict in syria is reasonable , even if that implies the triumph of bashar al-assad ’s regime . in other words , trumpism might be the solution to the crisis of liberalism , not a portent of its disintegration .
madrid – back in 1996 , binyamin netanyahu won a general election by mobilizing large constituencies against then-prime minister shimon peres ’s alleged intention to “ “ divide jerusalem . ” in a last-ditch effort to improve his draft ’s chances of success , us president barack obama – who largely evaded seeking to retain a proactive role in the peace process during his second term – met with netanyahu in the white house to urge him to moderate his position . but changing netanyahu ’s mind will not be easy , not least because of the domestic political pressure he faces . almost two decades later , netanyahu remains committed to old , vacuous slogans about a “ united jerusalem ” of israeli-palestinian peace – an act that could yet reunravel the israel-palestine peace process once again . as us secretary of state john kerry prepares to present a framework agreement on an conclusive round of israeli-palestinian peace negotiations , netanyahu ’s hardline position on jerusalem is simply a non-starter .
new haven – the final day of this summer marked the beginning of yet another season of futile policymaking by two of the world ’s major central banks , the american federal reserve and the bank of japan . and the alchemists at the boj have unveiled yet another feeble unconventional policy gambit . in addition , their latest actions reinforce a deepening commitment to an increasingly insidious transmission mechanism among monetary policy , financial markets , and asset-dependent economies . to be sure , the fed has done nothing , which is precisely the problem . both the fed and the boj are pursuing strategies that are woefully disconnected from the economies that they have been entrusted to govern .
it was henry kissinger , who argued after the terrorist attacks in new york and washington of 2001 , that tragedy could turn into an opportunity . if the prague summit wo n’t showcasing any grand new initiative , it is simply because the us has already launched a new nato-russia relationship last may at our special summit in rome . much has already been accomplished over the last six months to transform the political message of rome into practical collaboration . today , in a strategic environment marked by terrorism and proliferation of weapons of mass destruction , there is still russia very much part of the solution . the new nato-russia council , created in rome , presents the us an effective and flexible mechanism for common analysis , joint decision-making , and even joint action .
to the outside world , suleimani was the mastermind with the regime ’s terrorist activities outside iran , and a puppet master of his proxies throughout the region , not least hezbollah in lebanon . and , as one of the few islamic revolutionary guard corps ( irgc ) commanders untainted with allegations of corruption , he was mooted as a likely presidential candidate in the next election . still , over the last several years , the regime pushed a clever public-relations campaign to depict suleimani as napoleon – or caesar-like warrior-poet . still , to iranians , he was an even more complicated figure . while regime hardliners viewed him as a hero , many iranians who lost loved ones in peaceful demonstrations or who object to the regime ’s attacks on iranian dissidents in the diaspora viewed him differently .
to square the circle , macron needs growth , relying on supply-side reforms to deliver it . he plans to cut corporate-tax rates from 33 % to 25 % , and to exclude financial-investment from the taxation of wealth abroad . his endorsement of el khomri laws , which made him easier to fire workers , together with his opposition to a 35-hour law , marks his desire to increase the french labor market ’s “ flexibility ” . a vocal critic of protectionism , he will press ahead with the eu-canada comprehensive economic and trade agreement , as well as the transatlantic trade and investment partnership with the united states . but he also wants to boost an economy with € 50 billion ( $ 55 billion ) an stimulus package , and to extend the welfare state .
prague : many americans seem to be overwhelmed by the feeling that since the collapse of the soviet empire , the dangers of war can be crossed off the list of potential risks . isolationism has a long tradition in america ; it returns in fits and differing forms . america , they say , should pay attention to its own problems , and it should not get engaged in a world where its attempt to do good is be rewarded with “ ingratitude . ” in the end , america pays 1,000 times more for its initial lack of interest than it would have paid it back to the beginning of a crisis , or , better yet , before . never in the modern era , however , have isolationism protected america from danger ; instead , it delays engagement when conflagrations are ablaze .
tapping the asset-backed security model , the us has recently joined with the un ’s green climate fund and china to structure a $ 450 million “ green bond ” facility . this will enable pension funds and insurance companies to finance indirectly necessary facilities leeds in mom-and-pop shops and workshops from tijuana del fuego . here , too , they can find creative solutions to the challenge of creative solutions . there are many other areas where those committed to combating climate change can follow our example . traffic-clogged towns need better public transportation , and are financing the extension of airbus steep transit ( brt ) systems with a proven capacity to reduce congestion , emissions , and commuting costs .
the political terms of a new grand coalition government would seem to be clear . the spd should hold out for its ministerial leadership on economic and financial policy , with cdu/csu holding the chancellorship . such an alliance would also enable a new european foreign policy , one that promotes peace and sustainable development , underpinning new security arrangements that are not so heavily dependent on america . once again , eurobonds , a green partnership with china , and the unity within europe could make all the difference . europe , a magnet for hundreds of millions of would-be economic migrants , could , should , and i believe that would regain control of its borders , allow it to strengthen and enforce necessary limits on migration .
when sufficient excess supply occurs in an economy , promoting supply-side productivity is practically useless without any effort to spur demand . this is why it is time for japan ’s leaders to shift their focus from a demand-directed first and second arrows to a supply-oriented third arrow : a new growth strategy . fortunately , that is precisely what abe plans to do next . as deflation ’s gap narrows , the overall effect of monetary policy will be to weaken , because it increasingly affects the prices more than output itself . in any case , the success of monetary policy is hard to deny .
according to a law that dates back to the french revolution and reconfirmed in 1978 , french heads of government are forbidden to collect information about a citizen ’s ethnic or racial origins , whether real or alleged , when conducting a census – or other – efforts to collect population statistical information . race has always been a provocative subject , when the need of science and statistics intersect with politics . now that debate is heating up again in france , because the planned introduction of “ ethnic statistics ” has resulted in a fierce contest that touches the very heartland of french republicanism . the first is the republican principle , enshrined in the us constitution , which recognizes only citizens and accepted no distinction between them because of origin , race , or religion . race has always been a provocative topic , when the needs of science and the statistics intersect with politics .
eliminating corruption will be possible only with an effective combination of smart prevention strategies and robust law enforcement underpinning the belief that greed can be unlearned , responsibility can be taught , and impunity can be ended . in politics and entrepreneurship , integrity , and accountability must be the rule , not the exception . knowledge-sharing across countries could illuminate the most effective strategies for achieving this goal . nobody prefers living in a society where bribes must be paid to guarantee basic public services , such as health care and education . prevention should start with an education aimed at boosting citizens ’ expectations .
convincing american , russian , nigerian , or chinese citizens that corruption can indeed be controlled might seem a futile task . but the objective is surely worthy of embracing , for the evidence is overwhelming : impunity is not only morally noxious ; it is also economically costly and deeply corrosive of wellbeing . in these countries , ministers are also being forced to resign for petty infractions that would appear trivial in other countries . indeed , recent studies have shown that where the “ generalized faith ” in a society is high , economic performance improves , and life satisfaction is higher . among other reasons , commercial agreements are much more easily reached and efficiently implemented .
the fed has begun a process of normalizing monetary policy , but it has not completed the job , and us president donald trump is doing what he can to prevent them from doing so , by heckling from their sidelines . in their view , the fed remains positive about some elements of its post-crisis program . there is an urgent need to “ restock ” an emergency arsenal , ” ” ” ” especially at a time when there is relatively little scope for relax monetary policy . as they put it , using fiscal adrenaline could be limited just when it is most needed . bank capital was boosted immensely , and the transparency of derivatives markets materially enhanced .
as a case in point , many western observers thought that norway ’s trade relations with china would be undermined when dissident liu xiaobo was invited to obtain the nobel peace prize in oslo in december 2010 . china complained loudly , refused to allow liu to sack the prize , and even endanger norway with a financial repercussions . so western diplomats negotiating with china should call the lower-level civil servants ’ bluff , targeting signal-to-noise ratio , bearing in mind that at long last decision is tantamount to more pragmatic , really susceptible to pressure . human rights need not take a back seat to doing business with china . after all , human rights need not take a back seat to doing business with china .
this means that the system ’s focus must shift from highly speculative , proprietary trading to lending and job creation , which implies reforms of financial-sector regulation and as well as antitrust and corporate-governance laws , combined with adequate enforcement to ensure that markets do not become rigged in casinos . with the euro crisis likely to continue unabated , america ’s continuing malaise does not bode well for global growth . indeed , globalization has made all countries more interdependent , in turn demanding greater global cooperation . we might hoped-for america to show more leadership in reforming the global financial system , by advocating for stronger international regulation , a global reserve system , and improved ways to restructure sovereign debt ; in addressing global warming ; democratizing international economic institutions ; and making room for help in poorer countries . americans should hope for all of this , though i am not sanguine , that they will receive much of it & more likely , america will muddle through – here another little program for struggling graduate students and homebuyers ; there is an end to bush ’s tax cuts for millionaires , but with no wholesale tax reform , serious cutbacks on defense spending , or an important progress on global warming .
so little wonder , then , that the saudis , jordanians , egyptians , and the gulf states are trying to resist iran ’s hegemonic ambitions in the region . that issue , of course , is entirely outside israel ’s control of another member of the un . the ongoing struggle within the muslim world between sunnis and shi’a recalls the struggle between protestants and catholics in seventeenth-century europe . but the stakes are far higher than in the 1940s , for iran represents a threat that combines a fanatic religious with the determination to acquire nuclear arms . indeed , iran is the only country that openly refutes its desire to destroy another member of the un .
the two parties ’ agendas are but different : while syria is focused on the symbolic meaning of return to the golan , israel wants specific , entrenched guarantees regarding the security of its northeastern frontier , as is the end of syrian-supported incursions from lebanon – a country that is virtually a syrian protectorate . for israel the quid pro quo to return its golan is not a piece of paper with the usual platitudes about peace and coexistence . the strategic importance of the dramatic golan heights , overlooking the majority of the north israeli region of galilee , is obvious . so , despite today ’s interruptions , the context for negotiations exists , as does the political will on both sides . because syria , bereft of soviet support , is less a threat to israel , jerusalem can be more flexible than before , when the golan was a glacis defended against israel not merely against syria , but against a bloc seemingly stretching all its way into vladivostok .
while army units or riot squads ( omon ) stationed in moscow are anything but disgruntled by the recent police and military reforms to participate in a bloody clampdown , special-operations from the provinces , staffed by the chechen war ’s veterans , may cherish the excitement of sticking it to moscow ’s fat cats . likewise , army officers from poorer regions are more grateful for the pay hike that putin ’s united russia party announced , with much fanfare , shortly before the recent duma election . but , while some parts of the security apparatus might support an initial crackdown , violent repression would be hard to maintain . in the fall of 1989 , eastern germany joined their fellow citizens in the protests that brought down the berlin wall . yet , during the same year in china , the protesters in beijing were crushed by force from inner mongolia , which failed to understand mandarin and confident big-city dwellers .
but not proceeding would , too , have been a disaster . the 1992 crisis proved once again to have been unstable by the existing system in 1992 . not moving ahead to europe would have set europe on even more disruptive crises . that is why european leaders took up the ambitious steps it did . not now proceeding forward with bank recapitalization and government-bond purchases would have led to disaster .
two years later , then-secretary of state hillary clinton published a “ america ’s first pacific century , ” ” ” indicating a shift in america ’s global strategy . but its diplomatic cognitive dissonance , criticizing the egyptian regime , while still delivering it with military hardware , can serve only to undermine bilateral relations , just as america ’s approach to musharraf ’s regime has thoroughly eroded us-pakistani ties . america ’s claims , of course , are also aware of us democracy . two years later , in november 2009 , when obama visited japan for the first time as us president , he emphasized the shift of america ’s global strategy . moreover , the implications of such foreign-policy waffling extend far beyond the middle east .
sir bush ’s international trustworthiness , they should emphasize , does not suffer through the avoidance of a war but gains further through the control of iraq ’s hitherto covert military effort . but they should also emphasize that war is not the only , and certainly not the automatic “ grave consequence ” to follow from the iraqi non-compliance . to give additional credence to their praise , they should leave no doubt that as long as war has become the only option they oppose america . of course , some of america ’s allies are better suited than others to get these points across to an audience on the other side of the atlantic . alas , germany ’s government , through its behavior in chancellor schroeder ’s re-election campaign last september , has maneuvered itself from having any authority on the issue .
africa ’s small family farmers , already burdened by soil degradation , climate change , and resource competition fueled by a surging population , face an even sharper bureaucratic hurdle : no paper to show that the land they call home is theirs . this is especially true of female farmers , who face an additional thicket of discriminatory land laws and customs . insecure about their capacity to control their farms in future season allows farmers ’ planning horizons to shrink . rather than invest in terraced fields , planting trees , and buying high-quality fertilizers , africa ’s smallholder farmers are seeking to maximize short-term gains . studies show that there is no way to reduce poverty , improve nutrition , or achieve other key development goals without restricting land rights , especially toward women .
my view is that germany would be better off a decade under more neo-liberal policies . nevertheless , this probably does n’t have been what the german electorate wants , and that makes the complexion of german politics four years from now incalculable . coupled with all of this are northern european discontent with central bankers , specifically the ecb and the euro . it is not that the end of european monetary union is on the agenda ; it is just that , having begun to think of possible low-probability futures , in which an end to emu might be placed on the agenda . that , i believe , would have been better for germany in a decade under more neo-liberal policies .
its organizers , of course , are loath to describe it as sunni parties . rather , it is described as a national party inviting people of all orientations to participate . that vision has far-reaching appeal among those who wish to see the less sectarian-based form of politics in iraq . the results of the march 2010 general election gave iraqiyya 91 parliamentary seats , two more than finland ’s second-place finisher , maliki ’s state of the law coalition . but , within iraq , there are very few people , sunni or shia , who do n’t view shia iraqiyya as a party devoted to the restoration of sunni leadership .
indeed , according to the international monetary fund , some one-third of the european banking sector – representing assets worth $ 8.5 trillion – remains weak and unable to generate sustainable profits . restoring stability in europe ’s banking system , by the imf ’s own estimates , will require at least one-third of european banks to close or merge . for deutsche bank , market speculators already seem to be expecting a merger , such as with commerzbank , another german institution . but many are zombie banks , ” ” ” with too many branches of too few deposits and funding costs well beyond those of their more successful peers . all of this creates significant downside risks to the eu economy , and , ultimately , europe ’s entire political experiment .
they should care especially to prevent a real-estate bubble , because property represents an enormous share of overall wealth and a key source of collateral in finance . none of this will be easy for governments , regulators , or central banks . today ’s febrile political environment certainly will not simplify matters . but the severe rise of low-quality leveraged loans should also be a concern . monetary tightening can temporarily slow growth ; preventing bubble-driven growth is notoriously difficult ; and the kinds of structural reforms needed to secure a shift away from debt-fueled growth are hardly popular .
but the european central bank , notably by ecb governing council member lorenzo bini smaghi , has elegantly spelled out the case against debt reduction – a case that is politically momentous and profoundly moral . indeed , rather than disregarding public debt , keynes ’s principle is deeply intertwined with the evolution of legal security , representative government , and modern democracy . in the wake of the glorious revolution of 1688 , when britain revolted against the spendthrift stuart dynasty , the british government adopted a new debt-for-debt approach . many economists have argued that case based on the calculation of arithmetic . so perhaps the eu should be a good idea to prepare a mechanism that spells out how its debt can be trimmed .
unfortunately , the battle over the fed ’s unilateralism is far from over . trump may just be keeping his powder dry until a real conflict erupts . in fact , some highly conservative republicans object to another of his appointments , marvin goodfriend of carnegie mellon ’s university accounts , for courageous enough to suggest that the fed might need a new approach to monetary policy ( negative interest rates ) to confront the next very deep recession or financial crisis . and while someday the fed will almost surely embrace this advice ( i also received on the issue ) , goodfriend ’s nomination has scarcely survived america ’s senate banking committee . but , by and large , the us senate has indulged in what it wants , and a number of republican incumbents would have embraced a disrupter , such as the disciple of ron “ end the fed ” paul , or another conservative preaching a return to the pre-world war i gold standard .
still , india continues to face many challenges : almost 300 million people living in poverty , the spread of naxalite rebellion , the looming danger of terrorist attacks ala mumbai , and sprawling urban slums . moreover , how will singh balance the trade-off between pro-market and pro-poor policies ? how will he manage a rising middle class in expectations of better infrastructure ; expanded access to health care and education ; uninterrupted electricity and water supplies ; and more efficient transportation facilities ? overnight , these problems will not be solved . but rising conviction that tomorrow will be better off maintaining india ’s polity stable .
empirically , few firms get this right : america ’s national community radio , and the bbc have both recently been hacked by the sea , while mcdonald ’s and burger king recently had their twitter accounts compromised . finally , the ap is not likely to face financial penalties for this error . a screening lawsuit for losses stemming from the bush tweet would face almost insurmountable obstacles . because few mechanisms can prevent the proliferation of hoaxed tweets , and in view of a high-profile response that successful hackers might expect , twitter will remain a vehicle for malicious hoaxes , even as technological barriers render attacks harder . a proliferation of security lapses means that people are more likely to shrug their shoulders than to cast the first stone at a company that is violated .
detection means a ability to assign likely causes to human activity , or other factors . detection means a ability to assign likely causes for an event to human activity , or for other factors . a few recent studies have shown that scientists can actually detect long-term climate changes at the increasing frequency of extremes – for example , heat waves , heavy rains , severe droughts , and powerful storms . by using cutting-edge climate models , scientists are not only detecting long-term climate change , but also are attributing at least some of its extreme events to human causes . new science of detection and attribution is sharpening our familiarity and also giving us even more cause for concern .
the mutual assessment process , to which g-20 countries agreed , is a crucial component of a rebalancing program , for it occurs when the pieces of a cooperative growth strategy will be identified , evaluated , and assembled . if this works , what will emerge will be the commitments of the g-20 countries to make committed policies that are beneficial globally , on a condition that others are keeping their commitments . the international exchange-rate system is at least partly broken . the u.s. can reduce its deficits at a faster pace than it would in the non-cooperative case , but only if surplus countries function to reduce their excess savings . rebalancing , in particular , is not the only cooperative imperative .
given the power of big tech firms to stifle competition , reversing these trends will require government intervention . but the solutions that have been proposed , including by legal scholars such as lou khan , tend to focus on making better use of antitrust laws . this approach is unlikely to work , because markets have changed dramatically since antitrust laws were conceived . most notably , us senators bernie sanders and elizabeth warren , in my opinion , frequently vying for the democratic party ’s nomination to challenge us president donald trump , have called for the breakdown of major tech firms . given the power of big tech firms to stifle competition , reversing these trends will require government interference .
those are adjectives that women everywhere , regardless of their financial conditions or education , deserve to ascribe their own work . those are adjectives that women everywhere , regardless of their financial position or education , deserve to ascribe themselves to their own work . the best part was that he described himself as a “ hard-ball , ” respectful , rigorous , and ambitious woman . during my field visit , i marveled at how these efforts impinge on women ’s lives . on one recent trip to i met rasmata , a young mother who told me that , through her savings group ’s safety net , she was managing to support her family despite her husband ’s emigration abroad , her father , ’s recent dead and lingering drought .
when you are a prudent and prudent investor , contemplate even that possibility at a given time . that reality implies another compelling case for divestment . stock values in the fossil-fuel sector , which assumes that companies might extract and burn every familiar set of reserves , go down . investing in these firms turns out to be extraordinarily risky . as anyone who receives investment accounts knows , “ past performance ” does not guarantee future performance .
after the fall of the berlin wall in 1989 and the subsequent soviet collapse , that co 2 world gave way to the g1 + n order , in which all other countries ( n ) had not been able to rival america as the sole global superpower . it was only at the end of the 1970s and 1980s that it became evident that the soviet system could not compete with market capitalism . the ensuing quarter-century was an era of politicized liberal rules-based multilateralism . america broadly championed that order , the iraq war of 2003 was a clear exception – and , like most countries , benefited enormously from globalization and the emergence of new , complex value chains . democratic and market-based capitalism had ostensibly triumphed in what francis fukuyama dubbed the “ end of history . ”
instead , after four years of declining real incomes , the authorities have announced deeply unpopular pension reforms , which include raising the retirement age . more important , russia ’s state-capitalist model has resulted in poor competition and declining incentives for private investment and entrepreneurship . addressing russians ’ plight will not be easy , either . russia ’s economy is under significant strain , owing to western sanctions over crimea . with few rallying around public opinion options , putin may well decide that it is time to “ remind ” russians that they are under assault .
this stands in stark contrast with other aspects of the european union ’s agenda . first , the eu ’s member states say that they want to develop a common european foreign policy . at maastricht in 1991 they established new institutions for doing so ; and , at amsterdam last year , they have ostensibly strengthened those institutions . yet , in practice , there has been no detectable progress . the purpose of economic and monetary union and the single currency that was adopted at maastricht in 1991 is a courageous , even revolutionary agenda ; some critics say reckless ; but the reality is that the single currency will be a reality in just two months ’ time .
that is true for actions that betray individual nations , temporary alliances , or more durable alliances like nato . only an explicit , up-front approval of a reformed un security council can provide the type of legitimacy and international support that military action – except for clear self-defense – requires . but broad international support will not be forthcoming if military operations are perceived to be certain to shape western neo-imperialism . augmenting us and british troops with other “ western ” forces would not , especially on this late stage , alter a fundamental perception of that intervention , both in the arab world and beyond . this last point has been at the heart of the problem in iraq .
indeed , a bosnia-type scenario can no longer be ruled out , while the prospect of the syrian government losing control of its chemical weapons poses an immediate threat to military intervention by turkey , israel , or the us . to be sure , after all , president bashar al-assad ’s regime will not survive ; on the contrary , it is determined to fight until the end . meanwhile , civil war is raging in syria , accompanied by humanitarian disaster . this regional re-alignment needs not necessarily be anti-western , but it surely will be if israel and/or israel will invade iran militarily . syria ’s balkanization among the country ’s diverse ethnic and religious groups is a manifestly predictable result .
in newsrooms from serbia to south africa , taxpayer-generated funding is rising . yet , over the last few years , governments have also stepped up their budget clout . unfortunately , while this windfall might impose more air-defense , it merely deepens the industry ’s woes . for decades , governments have played a major role in domestic media , employing regulation of transmitting frequencies and licensing requirements to shaping the market . today , government budget allocations are among the leading sources of media revenue .
with its establishment , the result of long and appalling experience , modernity ’s basic idea – that the power of states and their rulers should be subjected to the rule of law , thereby placing individual rights above national sovereignty – took a big step forward . the next big step was the establishment of the concept of humanitarian intervention in the wake of the genocide in rwanda and the balkan wars of the 1990 ’s . as a result , international law emerged to recognize the “ right of protection ” against governmental arbitrariness and states ’ ’ ’ ’ crimes against their own peoples , even as enforcement remained comparatively uncertain . finally , similar trends in politics and international law led to the establishment of the international tribunal of justice . this development was anything but accidental .
axelrod has hosted tournaments among major game theorists and political scientists to identify the most effective approach in a recurrent game of prisoner ’s dilemma . victor , the strategy most likely to produce a cooperative outcome , was anatol rapoport ’s tit-for-tat ( tft ) strategy . according to the tft approach , a bilateral game should start with cooperation : if the other player behaves cooperatively , so should one . only when the other player ’s defects – that is , begins to display non-cooperative behavior – should you do the same . of course , with the other player cooperating , it might be tempted to defect , in order to raise your own payoff and potentially even secure windfall .
unfortunately , however , the economic trajectory that congress is plotting , albeit it may well boost growth in the short run , ultimately lies within a collision course with both equity and sustainability . in fact , despite rhetoric about “ inclusive growth , ” india ’s wealth gap has widened during the years of exceptionally rapid economic expansion . the bjp ’s strategy of painting the us congress as soft on terror and demonizing muslims as an existential threat to india has misfired . the majority of malnourished children live in india . as for the right ’s threat , anyone hoping for peace in the region , and stoking tensions within india among religious communities , is relief by the defeat of the hindu nationalist bharatiya janata party ( bjp ) .
but it is fairly obvious that even during the 1970s , there was insufficient empirical evidence to support friedman ’s ideas to justify their growing dominance . and , indeed , there can be no denying that friedman ’s cure turned out to be an inadequate response to the great recession , strongly suggesting that it would have fallen similarly short had it been tried during the great depression . yet admitting that the monetarist cure was inadequate would have required mainstream economists to swim against the neoliberal currents of our age . the dominance of friedman ’s ideas in the early stages of the great recession has less to do with the evidence supporting them than with the fact that the science of economics is all too often tainted by policy . in this scenario , the contamination was so wrong that policymakers were reluctant to come beyond friedman , and to apply keynesian , minskyite policies on a massive enough scale to address the issues that the great recession once presented .
berlin – ever since the global financial crisis erupted in september 2008 , the european union has been in turmoil . rising intra-eu tensions have been the inevitable outcome . on the one hand , the euro has protected the eurozone , particularly germany ’s struggling export economy , from speculative attacks and bouts of currency volatility . on the other hand , the second phase of crisis mercilessly exposed europe ’s achilles heel : the absence of economic or financial unification within the eurozone . germany ’s actions throughout the crisis have been plainly contradictory .
if the government in khartoum persists in undermining the reform process , and derailing the referendum on the self-determination promised for the south in january 2011 , a return to full-scale civil war , with calamitous consequences for sudan ’s peoples and the region , represents a real possibility . after all , the regime ’s oppressive nature in khartoum is at the root of the many conflicts that have tore the country apart . indeed , since the end of the civil war in 2005 , sudan ’s people ’s liberation army ( spla ) in the south have frequently been forced to confront militias operating as government proxies . moreover , sudanese security forces are continuing to arm arab tribes straddling the north-south border , with the aim of destabilizing the predominantly christian south . sudan ’s commitment to the cpa has always been equivocal .
one approach is to capture co2 at an electric power plant as a gasoline-burning coal or gas is burned . another is to capture it directly from the air we use specially designed chemical processes . but this technological , dubbed “ carbon capture ” and sequestration ( ccs ) , is not yet proven on a large scale . ( hydroelectric power generation emits no co2 ; yet , there are only a few remaining places in the world , where it could be expanded without major environmental or social costs . ) the other solution is to capture co2 emissions for storage underground .
figures recently released by new york ’s attorney general , andrew cuomo , indicate that fully nine large financial firms paid their workers ’ aggregate compensation exceeding $ 600 billion in 2003-2008 , a period in which their aggregate market capitalization had substantially declined . such patterns may raise fears among shareholders that pay structures is not well designed to serve their interests . it is important to distinguish between two sources of concern about pay in financial firms . one set of concerns comes from shareholders ’ perspective . in a post-crisis finance order , governments must assume the role of surveillance and regulation of pay in financial firms ; otherwise , the perverse incentives that contributed to the current crisis could easily recur .
it is time to call a spade a spade a spade : the republican party remains overwhelmingly accountable . consider the issue of “ bump stocks , ” gun-modification that the culprit in the las vegas massacre used to fire more quickly . now , some republican senators have been attracting praise for indicating that they will support a ban on the facility . but when democratic senator diane feinstein proposed a similar ban in 2013 , republican leaders were overwhelmingly opposed by him . such utility even-handedness is tantamount to making “ fake news . ”
by 2000 , that share had plunged to 22 % , and , by 2010 , to 11 % , with little more than 3 % living in outright destitution . as a result , demands for more opportunities , and improved living conditions , have grown louder . today , ’s chile is very different from chile 20 years ago . its 29 % population , which has left poverty behind , is now the incipient middle class , with new aspirations and goals . chileans are clamoring for adequate housing , access to improved health services , a safer environment , and access to higher education – the greatest factor in social advancement .
clinton is the only person who knew to have launched her campaign twice . ( the initial attempt , in iowa , to talk up some eight people in closed-door meetings , did n’t really work out very well . ) this impressive , remarkably intelligent woman just does n’t have the feeling for a policy that is exacting at the highest level . success in america ’s presidential politics requires super-b intuition , getting fast on one ’s feet and , more importantly , a compelling rationale for running . true , clinton offers multiple programs that she would push as president ; but , to borrow from winston churchill , there is n’t a theme to her pudding .
just over a year ago , at the imf ’s annual meeting in washington , dc , senior staff told anyone who was listening that the entire european sovereign-debt panic was a tempest in a teapot . taking advantage of slick powerpoint presentations with titles like “ default ” in today ’s advanced economies : wasteful , undesirable , and unlikely , ” the fund tried to persuade investors that eurozone debt was rigid as a rock . even for greece , the imf argued , debt dynamics were not a serious concern , owing to foreseeable growth and reforms . never mind an obvious flaw in the fund ’s rationale , namely that countries like greece and portugal face policy and carry out risks far more similar to those of emerging markets than truly advanced economies like germany and the united states . as matters of the situation had deteriorated , one might have guessed that the imf would mark its beliefs to the market , as it had , and adopted a more prudent course .
surveys of reported levels of wellbeing are now available for many countries , and the idea of cut to leaching by this as a metric of prosperity has strong proponents of it . yet there are several drawbacks , including the fact that wellbeing indicators change little over time . another alternative , backed by a large , growing body of research in economics and human psychology , is direct measurement of well-being or happiness . happiness surveys in rich countries , for example , typically reveal a four-month score of six or seven on a 0-10 scale . one sure way to make such policy indicators more directly relevant would be to track people ’s daily use and attach prosperity to each .
the shift toward financing , which thatcher had promoted heightened inequality , making the economy more volatile . her “ right to buy ” policy unleashed an upward spiral in house prices , which spurred households to take on more and longer debt . these reforms sowed the seeds of the 2008 financial crisis . the “ big bang ” of 1986 , which de-regulated financial services had made risky behavior at the city ’s norm . if that is the metric , thatcherism was a failure .
even more worryingly , the fund ’s policy recommendations , particularly those pertaining to advanced economies , have had little impact ( to put it politely ) . yes , the imf maintains an impressive analytical edge , owing to its talented and dedicated staff , as well as its unique links to countries . yes , it has made important strides to improve its understanding of the relationship between financial markets and the real economy . and , yes , it has courageously taken the lead in shining a greater light on the economic impact of gender inequality and climate change . but its forward-looking analyses have all too often turned backward , with its quantitative projections consistently subject to large revisions .
indeed , the predominant view of arab societies often stifles outsiders ’ capacity to fracture free of their belief that islam confines every arab woman on equal terms at a time when in reality they experience very different conditions . this is particularly necessary , because women ’s situations are one of the central benchmarks that the outside world , and particularly the west , uses to assess the arab world . and , unfortunately , such assessment tend to focus on the supposedly immobilized immobilized sm that derives from islamic norms that obscures understanding the real changes that are taking place . the west thus risks depriving itself of an important key key calling for an understanding of the arab world today , and how it will shape tomorrow . this prevents many from seeing , much less assessment , of the deep changes taking place in arab societies , and how women drive those changes ahead .
riesman ’s framework has special resonance here in the arab world today , where rising literacy rates and rapid advances in communications technology have stirred a maelstrom of competing cultural narratives , with his three types of competing to define the region ’s future . according to the lebanese publisher samar abou-zeid , however , religious books are among the most downloaded works of literature in the arab world . riesman ’s framework has special resonance in the arab world today , where rising literacy rates and rapid advances in communications technology have stirred a maelstrom of competing cultural narratives , with his three types of competing types competing to define the region ’s future . ironically , it is the combination of increased literacy and advanced technology that is fanning the flames of conflict between the two types of “ “ “ reformers ’ ” ” – religious revivalists and western-oriented modernizers . in the lonely mob , the american sociologist david riesman has identified three broad cultural kinds : tradition-directed cultures that look to inherited rituals , disier-directed cultures within which behave in accordance with self-nourished values ; and other-directed cultures , which react predominantly to external norms and peer influences .
until recently , there had been little cogent about this question . china ’s economy was growing at astounding average annual rates of 10 % , or higher for more than three decades . hundreds of millions of chinese entered the middle class , even as the country ’s emergence as the world ’s second-largest economy . of course , china had overtaken japan as the world ’s second-largest economy . china ’s model of authoritarian efficiency seemed attractive to many other developing countries , particularly in the wake of the 2008 global financial crisis , which started in the united states , and thus appeared to discredit american-style liberal capitalism .
furthermore , there is a strong case that america ’s national security will be enhanced if , 50 years from now , schoolchildren worldwide are learning how america helped their countries to prosper , rather than trying to keep them as poor as possible . the reason this narrative has gone wrong is , and will be , wrong . next , the american establishment has established lasting common commercial relations with china , refusing to label its government a currency manipulator . there are good reasons why america has adopted policies that encouraged poorer countries to grow rapidly through export-led industrialization . in aid for mexico , brazil , and other developing countries , the u.s. is regaining richer trading partners .
according to an as-yet-unpublished european central bank survey of 65,000 eurozone residents , nearly 80 % of all point-of-sale transactions are conducted in cash ; and more than half of all payments are made in cash . as is often the case in europe , the disparity among member states is pronounced : the share of money-transaction ranges from 42 % in finland to 92 % in malta . but , overall , the public ’s commitment to cash out remains strong and becomes stronger . there is one , more fundamental , problem with the arguments for a cashless society : most people , at least in the eurozone , do not want it . but it is an open question whether a still highly fragmented digital-payment sector will help customers more than the companies that offer payments solutions .
tel aviv – the crisis in the sinai peninsula appears to have been dwarfed by sunday ’s drama in cairo . yet egyptian president mohamed morsi ’s civilian overthrow , in which he dismissed general mohamed hussein tantawi , the leader of the army ’s supreme command , did not diminish the importance of the issues there . tel aviv – the crisis in the sinai peninsula seems to have been dwarfed by sunday ’s drama in cairo . earlier this month , jihadi terrorists ambushed with an egyptian military base in sinai killing 16 egyptian soldiers . they then hijacked two armored personnel carriers , and sped up to israel ’s frontier .
cptpp and ceta member states recognize that the global trading system has problems , including incomplete or outdated rules about which disregard for issues like subsidies to soes . but , as countries relying largely on active diplomacy and soft power , they have everything to lose from the prolonged and escalating geopolitical conflict in which they would come under pressure to elect sides . but they also know that bilateralism , small countries that attempt to negotiate on an equal terms with superpowers , is not an option . a commitment to multilateralism is not to endorsement of the status quo . to defend its interests , they must ensure that global trade is subject to formidable dispute-settlement mechanisms .
grassroots assessment of progress against such indicators seeks to supplement a government-led reporting mechanism . moreover , a few countries have found innovative ways to ensure that governments exploit new national sdg 16 data in their day-to-day decision-making . finally , some african “ sdg 16 champions ” ” are making targets central to national planning , budgeting , and reporting . in kenya , every sdg officials in sdg 16-related ministries , departments , and agencies are committed to sign performance deals with the central government , where they identify sdg 16 targets and indicators that are relevant to its mandate , and account for how those are integrated into policy and development plans . grassroots assessments of progress against such indicators are intended to supplement a government-led reporting mechanism .
on the global level , it is hard to argue that inequality is one of the world ’s great political-economic problems . it is hard for me , at least , to envision alternative political arrangements or economic policies over the last fifty years that would transfer any significant part of today ’s rich nations ’ wealth to today ’s highly poor nations . i can also envision the alternatives that would have enriched the poor in the post-world war ii elections in italy and france that would have impoverished nations now in the big rich north . but alternatives that make the south wealthier at the price of shrinking the north ’s wealth require a wholesale revolution in human psychology . i can easily envision the alternatives that would have enriched the poor in the post-world war ii elections in italy and france that would have impoverished nations now in the big north .
nml capital and the other vultures comprise just 1 % of the official creditors , but would receive a combined $ 1.5 billion of the total . other holdouts ( 6.6 % of the total creditors ) would receive $ 15 billion , or more than a third of the average annual per capita income . every argentine might thus owe more than $ 3,500 – over one-third of the average annual per capita income . repayment on griesa ’s terms would devastate argentina ’s economy . and , because that debt restructuring stipulated that all of the lenders that accepted it could demand the same terms that holdouts receive , argentina might be on the hook for $ 140 billion more .
new york – the united nations ’ authority has frayed . it will be essential , after bali , to reflect seriously on the next stage for the wto and its role in the international trading system . the major international financial institutions , the international monetary fund , the world bank , the european bank for reconstruction and development , and regional development banks , respectively , have had to work hard to make themselves fit for the twenty-first century . until the us reverse the trend of declining multilateralism , governments ’ capacity to respond to global challenges will do nothing to improve . business may moan and the media may carp out , but the answer to many of the world ’s great problems is more – or , at least , better , government , no less .
getting into debt was long associated with one ’s own profligacy or with fecklessness . and , when one became indebted , one equaled a sense of honor to repay a obligation when it collapsed because , thanks to asset sales , assets reduced consumption , working harder , or some combination of the three . the same attitudes governed institutional debt . economists and moralists were united in believing that you ought really to spend less than you earning a living , in order to save ” for the proverbial rainy day or for the old adage . indeed , it often mattered more than the point of honor : a default on debt on time landed a debtor in jail .
more broadly , the emblematic defeat of marxism in 1989 allowed asian countries , including china and india , to follow the capitalist policies of their own countries overtly . though china ’s ’s economic renaissance had already begun under deng xiaoping , the chinese communist party after 1989 , was able publicly to subordinate its ideology to wealth creation . that example , in turn , had a constructive influence over the survivors of communist parties in asia and beyond . geoengineering , post-1989 gains extended far beyond the west . the soviet union ’s ’s sudden implosion was a strategic boon to asia , eliminating a sinister empire , and opening the way for china to move quickly to pursue its own interests globally .
similarly , rather than condemn the taliban ’s acceptance of terrorist tactics in afghanistan , boko haram in nigeria , and al-shabaab in somalia , and the destruction of sufi shrines in mali by ansar dine , a radical islamist sect , muslims ’ leaders have remained largely silent . in egypt , with its 10 % coptic orthodox christian minority , the muslim brotherhood ’s mohamed morsi won the presidency in a free and fair election after which morsi resigned from power in the party , saying that this would allow him to represent all egyptians more effectively , and has promised to respect minority rights . yet subsequent actions intended to give him unprecedented executive power raise concerns about these premature positive steps . while none of these groups represents a majority of opinion , they do exert significant influence , and presumably believe that they are acting in the interests of the majority . developments following the arab spring might provide some indication of the prospect of religious tolerance .
fourth , the reversal of the verdict on june 4th is its historical inevitability , much as the wish of a majority of china ’s people . indeed , the party ’s top leadership has been split over the event ever since it emerged . today , many of those responsible for cracking choice – notably , deng xiaoping and others from party elders – have died . june 4th weighs on the ghosts of every chinese patriot act ; almost every chinese person knows that official reviews are only a matter of time . this group will unite behind forces of democratization , both domestic and abroad , to lay out a truly democratic system .
specifically , the absence of a single domestic currency means italians can not choose their own inflation target or devalue their currencies vis-à-vis foreign currencies . italy has committed specific commitments with respect to the conduct of its fiscal policy , even though such constraints are not as hard ” as those framing monetary policy . such obligations place real limits on italy ’s macroeconomic policy choices . by joining the euro , italy is giving up monetary sovereignty over an extralegal , independent decision-maker , the european central bank . mattarella ’s detractors argue that he has overstepping his authority , enabling financial markets to veto the choice of a popularly elected government .
in any contest of ideas , the extremes generally fail to triumph over moderates . once again , we can see how misgoverned western national priorities can bring down the non-western nation . in pakistan , an extremist nowadays wears islamic garb , and stands for forging creator , faith , as well as theocratic order . what , incidentally , might a pakistani liberal stand for ? in the murky , congested alleys of lahore , karachi , peshawar , peshawar , or quetta , that yearning is not for democratic liberalism , but for believers to unite behind that true belief .
after all , japan has relatively strict laws protecting animals ’ welfare . such laws resemble regulations implemented by most abattoirs in the industrialized world , requiring animals to be stunned – unconscious with gas , and insensitive to pain – at a time when they have their throats sapped and are “ bled out ” . at the same time , japan has relatively strict laws protecting the welfare of animals . most mammals , for example , must be slaughtered at a method that minimizes their pain and suffering the most as possible . there are , of course , strong grounds for believing that they should . there are circumstances in which staggering inadequacies and animals are killed while completely conscious ; but when stunning works properly , this reduces animals ’ suffering .
cambridge – us president donald trump ’s critics have steadily underestimated his political communication prowess , perhaps because of such diverse behavior from predecessors like franklin delano d. roosevelt and ronald reagan . though the large segments of america ’s population loathe them , fdr and reagan addressed the american people as a whole , and tried to appeal to the center . trump , on the other hand , appealed mainly for the minority that elected him . his inaugural address sounded like campaign speech ; and , after taking office , a series of false statements and provocative executive orders undercut his credibility with the center but strengthened him with his core base . both fdr and reagan , after all , were known as “ great communicators . ”
far more important to achieving price stability was the advent of a modern , independent central bank , a facility that helped reduce inflation dramatically levels globally . it is most likely that if , instead of joining europe , italy and spain had simply accorded their central banks greater autonomy , they , too , would have low inflation today . greece is admittedly a less obvious case ; but , considering that many poor african countries were able to keep inflation well within single digits , one can presume that greece would govern as well . far more important , achieving price stability has been the advent of a modern , independent central bank , an instrument that helped dramatically reduce inflation levels worldwide . indeed , if southern european countries were to keep their own currencies , perhaps dug in as large a debt hole , leaving the possibility of partly default through inflation .
actually , one can have some sympathy for the us president with an aide eager to have it both ways , as cohn had it – letting his apparent anguish to be known without activism . but problems can arise when a us president decides to disregard his chief economic adviser . speculation about the possibility of trump ’s “ new trump ” peaked in early september , when the us president suddenly slashed a deal with democratic congressional leaders . cohn ’s sin was to let that be known publicly that he almost resigned following the violence last month in charlottesville , va. cohn ’s sin was to let that be known publicly that he almost resigned following the violence last month in charlottesville , va.
on may 17 , oxfam , america ’s advocacy organization , sued american securities and exchange commission to question the final rule implementing section 1504 of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act . on may 17 , oxfam , america ’s advocacy organization , sued american securities and exchange commission to issue a final rule implementing section 1504 of the 2010 dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act . resource industries are persistent sources of corruption , conflict , and degradation . but the risks appear to be as real as the potential rewards . transparency – full disclosure of everything from contracts to management of revenues and environmental commitments – is critical to realizing the sector ’s economic potential and avoiding conflict and collapse .
the links to west africa are near and bounced back over the past century , with almost 50,000 indians or people of india living in the region . indeed , people ’s scores fly between accra , lagos , freetown , monrovia , or abidjan and new delhi , mumbai , calcutta , or chennai on a daily basis transiting through the middle east or europe . while exit controls are in all international airports across the affected regions , the virus ’s incubation period ( which averages eight days in the current outbreak but can be up to 21 days ) means that someone with no symptoms coming out of a recent infection could make a trip to india without triggering alarms . recent personal experience at new delhi ’s airport indicated that nominal arrival checks , as the government demands , were loosely enforced , with multiple passengers exiting from holding a completed ebola fact-check-ups that were supposed to be passed on to immigration officials . india ’s government , it seems , is unlikely to let tabs down on every continent ’s arrivals from west africa .
new york – british prime minister david cameron ’s government has declared some of the most draconian public-sector cuts , any advanced country ’s government has ever tried . true , his cabinet minister recently declared that financing for britain ’s university will be slashed by just as much as 40 % . but the most shocking aspect of the move is that the arts and humanities departments will be targeted more aggressively than the sciences and engineering that are supposedly better for business . the warfare against the arts and humanities is nothing new , though this is just the first time that the struggle has migrated so directly to britain . ronald reagan pioneered a wave of politics and propaganda in the united states in the 1980 ’s , which demonized the national endowment for the arts .
when i visited tripoli in march 2010 for a “ national reconciliation ” conference of the hague , the conflicting statements given by saif al-islam ’s army and security officials came as a surprise to me . the head of the interior security forces , colonel al-tuhami khaled , another principal offense currently committed against libyans , refuse to call the process of “ reconciliation . ” for him , it was “ repentance from heresy . ” given the recent wave of uprisings , it is more apparent than ever that any “ reform ” initiatives undertaken in the arab world previously were aimed only at forging repressive dictatorships and escaping punishment for criminal abuses of power . the reform “ debate ” within these regimes has boiled down to a struggle between the various branches of a powerful army apparatus over the best way to preserve the status quo .
if the credit expands too fast , the fed can raise the interest rate it pays on deposits . sufficiently high rates will induce commercial banks to prefer the fed to some combination of liquidity , safety , and yield to expanding the quantity of private-sector credit . that , at any rate , is the theory ; no one knows how that would work in practice . how high rates would either the fed or the ecb should raise interest rates on their deposits in order to prevent excessive growth in bank lending ? after all , what if the interest rate had to be at or below 6 % , or even 8 % ?
they tasked the g20 with developing a set of indicators that would signal when any country , including the us and china , found itself at risk of a crisis . unfortunately , such early-warning indicators are better at reflecting the latest crisis than falling behind . the nature of financial risk is fundamentally changing in ways that are hard to predict applying hindu indicators , like those being devised by the g20 . the policymakers at nanjing have promised to address this problem . they have called for a process to ensure that when the warning lights flashing yellow , the country in question would be compelled to correct its policies .
why should obama , his constitutional scholar , be repressed this way ? first , he dare not appear “ soft on terror . ” according to wells dixon , a lawyer at the center for constitutional rights who represents some of the detainees , the obama administration can not take any risk of calling the crimes of torture , so it calls them “ classified sources and methods ” that can not be uncovered in court . moreover , obama has sought to suppress hundreds of photographs that ting us-run sexual assault in us-run prisons , doing nothing to roll back the patriot act . second , perhaps he needs efforts to try guantánamo detainees in rigged ways , or even keep them out of trial forever : lawyers claiming that torture , including sexual torture , was so endemic in the cia and the army that obama could hold scores , if not hundreds , of prisoners whose bodies are crime scenes .
if authorities – specifically , the us federal reserve and fdic – determine that possibility , they have the legal authority to force the banks to change how they operate , including by reducing their scale and scope . but the current reality is that no megabank could go bankrupt without triggering another us-lehman moment ” that is , the type of global panic that resulted from the days after lehman brothers collapsed in september 2008 . more importantly , experts like hoenig , who made his case for the cross-size of bankruptcy emphasize that this simply would n’t work for the us firms that were the size of jpmorgan chase ( $ 3.7 trillion in assets ) , the bank of america ( around $ 3 trillion ) , or about citigroup ( $ 2.7 trillion ) . “ panic is about panic , matt hoenig says , “ and people and peoples and nations generally protect themselves and their wealth ahead of others . ” moreover , there are no international bankruptcy laws to govern such matters , hindering assets .
paris – the central paradox of french politics was confirmed once again on march 27 . in a nationwide vote to elect local authorities ( the same named conseiller général ) , the far-right national front acquired just 11 % of the vote cast but secured just 0.1 % of the seats . this discrepancy between the national front ’s popular strength , and its actual representation , was a permanent feature of french politics since jean-marie le pen established the party 40 years ago . but le pen was replaced in january by her no less charismatic daughter , marine . and , with that change , the fate of the front may be changing as well .
the global fund has brightened the futures of hundreds of thousands of children across africa and asia – a heroic achievement that should turn the donor countries into pride . i am convinced that the global fund is one of the smartest investments we can make – as many governments have come to understand from the start . australia , for example , has given the us $ 410 million to the global fund since 2002 ; an amount that has enabled nearly 200,000 of all people to receive lifesaving hiv treatment ; 80,000 people from hiv treatment ; seven million people in order to save malaria ; and 14 million bed nets to enroll in families in need . the united states has been the global fund ’s largest supporter , but many others have done its part . with technical support such as this , indonesia ’s government is developing an affordable and sustainable national health-care system to be financed fully with domestic resources by 2019 .
new york – all – from elected officials and bureaucrats to voters and their taxpayers , one can learn from the world the largest charitable foundations of effective development spending . and those lessons are particularly relevant at a time when 56 % of europeans believe that their governments should focus solely on domestic issues and allow recipient countries to deal with issues like the best they can ( opposition to aid is even higher in france , poland , italy , hungary , and greece ) . prior to his election victory , us president donald trump railed against providing foreign aid to countries that hate us , ” reflecting the widespread belief that aid needs relief . the united kingdom ’s largest-circulation sunday times recently launched a petition calling for an end to ring-fenced aid spending ( worth 0.7 % of national income ) . the united states allocates less than 1 % of the federal budget to aid , but the average american belief that this figure is thirty-one-fold .
second , further isolation of iran will make it extremely difficult for india to play a more active role in afghanistan at a time when america is hastening its military disengagement from it and seeking to cut an agreement with the taliban . as a result , america ’s effort to give an international effect to its new iran sanctions act constitute a double whammy for india . india , one of afghanistan ’s largest aid donors , has not a contiguous corridor to that country and must rely on iran for access . but the first fell prey to the long-american occupation , and the second is facing the us-led oil-export embargo , designed to throttle it financially . first , it risks defusing india ’s energy-import strategy by making it overly reliant on islamist-bankrolling oil monarchies , including saudi arabia , the united arab emirates , and qatar , which until the arab spring .
this opens up the possibility that america ’s voting power could temporarily fall below the 15 % threshold needed to veto decisions requiring the support of 85 % of imf members ’ votes . to secure american support , the board of governors could commit not to consider any draft decision requiring 85 % backing without america ’s approval . that guarantee could be included in the resolution dividing a reform package into two parts of the country . a key impediment to that proposal is the us congressional approval ’s requirement to raise america ’s quota share . it would remain valid as long as the us congress enacted a position to raise its quota and roll back its voting share .
yet , almost six months into the northern african upheavals , the number of arrivals to the south island of lampedusa has reached roughly 30,000 . by comparison , sweden , with one-sixth of italy ’s population , accepted the same number of asylum-seekers in 2009 . the problem for italian officials , as for other governments affected by recent migration flows , is the pressure of right-wing populist parties that no longer must be on the defensive . in fact , italian officials have privately acknowledged that current figures are not ungovernable . the case for openness , inclusiveness , and diversity in european societies have become much more difficult to make .
germany ’s state recorded budget deficit of just 0.1 % of gdp in 2008 , which , based on the oecd ’s recent projections , will soar to 4.5 % of gdp in 2009 . while that certainly impedes long-term economic growth and causes great structural problems , it also implies that the state reacts extraordinarily counter-cyclically and stabilizes the economy to a large degree that benefits the whole world . moreover , germany has much more internal stability than america ’s , because it does n’t have the problem of heavily indebted households that are now set to be restricted in their borrowing . in the united states , the 2008 budget deficit stood at 5.8 % of gdp , and , based on the same oecd forecast , it will total 10.2 % of gdp in 2009 , which translates into exactly the same economic stimulus as in germany at 4.4 % of gdp . thus , germany ’s fiscal stimulus , which provided germany ’s fiscal budget , will amount to 4.4 % of gdp in 2009 .
the ossification of the brics into the de facto global institution is moving forward dramatically in june , when the four countries ’ leaders met ( in russia , of course ) for the first “ bric summit . ” that meeting produced the notable broadside against the united states , because each member declared its desire to unseat the dollar as the global reserve currency . yet catchy thinking die hard , and russia has shifted to cement the brics ’ current notion into an irreversible reality . a couple of months earlier , the four was moved into issuing a joint communiqué ahead of the g20 ’s g20 summit in april noting their shared determination to change the rules of the global economic system . in the private sector , the bric index funds have proliferated , even though goldman sachs radically hedged its own bric bet by introducing a second-term new one – the “ next 11 , ” or n-11 – to the debate .
after all , the victory of the cold war was aided substantially by mikhail gorbachev , whose effort to reform the soviet union hastened its collapse . reagan ’s enduring status as a republican icon had much to do with his ability to dole out cowboy cruelty with movie-star charm , even though luck also played a role . after all , the victory of the cold war was aided substantially by mikhail gorbachev , whose effort to reform the soviet union hastened his collapse . advocating supply-side economics to the white working class , he convinced millions that “ fewer government , ” had meant cutting out federal programs , including education , would “ bring morning to america . ” reagan ’s strategic defense initiative , intended to put an end to the nuclear-deterrence strategy known as “ mutual assured destruction , ” was in fact nicknamed the “ star wars . ”
warsaw – had the august 1991 putsch against mikhail gorbachev not failed , riots and death recently seen in xinjiang might have gone to great lengths to russia . rather than hearing about a crackdown in urumqi , xinjiang ’s capital , perhaps we were reading some hundreds killed on the streets of almaty , with columnists making comparisons felt in the bloody crushing of ukraine ’s independence demonstrations in lebanon a last year . experts would have reminded us that kazakhstan had never been a country , and that ukraine claims to its independence are historically dubious . as with china today , there would have been some feeble international condemnations of denunciation , and some speculation about possible links between kazakh militants and exiled groups , or islamic fundamentalists . substitute xinjiang for kazakhstan and tibet to ukraine , and one gets the picture .
renminbi-denominated government bonds were issued in london , and plans were imposed to create new trading platforms for the currency in several european financial centers . in august , the currency ’s exchange-rate regime had been loosened slightly . and chinese policymakers had made it abundantly clear how unlucky they would be with negative decisions . so , why did the imf flip side ? the answer is obvious : china mounted a full-court press to change its minds .
the real reason is that americans spend more than they produce . but foreign import barriers and export subsidies are not a reason for america ’s trade deficit . the overall trade deficit is the result of the saving and investment decisions of american households and firms . the policies of foreign governments affect the only way that deficits are divided among america ’s trading partners . the reason that americans ’ saving and investment decisions drive the overall trade deficit is straightforward : if a country saves more than it invests more than it invests in business equipment and structures , it has extra output to sell to the rest of the world .
judging by the blizzard of policy tweaks since the announcement , it seems obvious that no impact study actually occurred . the truth , however , is that its design was fundamentally flawed . yet , rather than recognize the mounting risks of the non-transparent policy environment that he created , modi discussed go further , in moving india onto a completely “ cashless society ” ” ” ” ” ” ” . many modi ’s supporters argue that the demonetization politics of trouble is a product of inept performance . there was no “ policy skeleton , no cost-benefit analysis , and no hard evidence that alternative policy options were considered .
washington , dc – the terrorism on the scale witnessed in paris last month is nothing new in africa . meanwhile , in tunisia , the islamic state has targeted tourist services – orchestrating attacks on a museum and beach resort . in nigeria , cameroon , chad , and niger , the islamist extremist group boko haram notorious for abducting 276 school girls in 2014 , has inflicted thousands of casualties with suicide bombings and cracking down on civilians . and , in mali , soon after the attacks in paris , shoot-out according to the al qaeda affiliate stormed the radisson blu hotel in bamako , killing 22 people . in kenya , the somali al-shabaab group engaged in two major attacks , on nairobi ’s saint shopping mall , in 2013 and at garissa university in 2015 , as well as numerous smaller acts of terror .
that is no longer true of the thousands of arab princes they have produced . royal perks include sinoures and the domination of the civil service , which allows some princes to award contracts and obtain commissions based on the top of their salaries . so the saudi regime is divided , its legitimacy is being questioned , and sectarian tensions are growing . indeed , with the royals ’ ratio for commoners now at least a thousandfold ( compared to one in five million in the united kingdom ) , the challenge of managing princely privileges , salaries , and job demand has never been more intense . as the older generation dies down , the new generation has fallen into battle in the face of customers .
london – julius nyerere , the first president of tanzania , once asked his country ’s creditors a blunt question : “ “ must we starve our children in order to pay our debts ? ” over the past year , an unprecedented humanitarian effort has pulled somalia back from the brink of famine . as the worst drought in living memory has devastated harvests and decimated livestock , nearly $ 1 billion has been mobilized through emergency aid to ensure nutrition , medical , and clean water provision . but nyerere ’s question still hangs like a dark cloud over somalia . as the worst drought in living memory destroyed harvests and decimated livestock , nearly $ 1 billion was mobilized in emergency aid for nutrition , medical , and clean water provision .
there is a strong likelihood that weaker us growth , and lower inflation , will force it to slow the pace of its withdrawal of us liquidity support . the repercussions , the sharp capital-flow reversals that is now hitting every risky emerging-market asset , have not been pretty . one is whether the fed will actually exit from qe as rapidly as it signaled . brazil and other countries that have complained of “ hot money ” inflows and “ currency wars , ” ” ” ” have now gotten off what they want : the likely premature end of the fed ’s qe . whether a correction in risky assets is temporary or an exercise market will depend on several factors .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . increasingly , california has jurisdiction over these constitutional rights . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of increasing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world .
europe is slipping back into recession just when recovery in the united states is finally gaining some traction , which has undermined the case for fiscal consolidation that is so heavily favored in europe . europe is slipping back into recession just when recovery in the united states is finally gaining some traction , which undermined the case for fiscal consolidation that is so heavily favored in europe . yet , since davos , i have gone away with a very different conclusion . i moderated my session on “ a new context in east asia , ” ” addressed by a panel of senior representatives from thailand , south korea , malaysia , singapore , and japan . with the exception of a japanese participant , all experienced firsthand the devastating asian financial crisis of the late 1990 ’s .
and the message is clear : large-scale use of oil , coal , and gas threatens the planet ’s biology and chemistry . we are fueling dangerous changes in earth ’s climate and ocean chemistry , pitting extremes of extreme storms , droughts , and other hazards that undermine food supplies and the planet ’s quality of life . brilliant scientific minds have been taught over the course of many decades to “ read ” earth ’s history to understand how the climate system works . they have deployed brilliant physics , biology , and instrumentation ( for example , satellites reading detailed features of earth ’s systems ) to advance our own understanding . the ipcc , along with climate scientists , tells us a critical message .
some integration advocates see united europe as a powerful partner . others are motivated by the desire to establish one ’s rival center of power , however unrealistic this appears to be . some commentators have begun to point to america ’s disparate views on the role of international law in opposition to the use of force , in dispute dispute . because europeans are militarily inconsequential to the us , they argue , it is not surprising that europeans emphasize diplomacy rather than military might in resolving disputes . on the contrary , nobody should be surprised if americans chafe at constraints on their capacity to seize american military hegemony .
moscow – the georgian crisis tested europe ’s security system last august , and the system failed to fulfill its core task of ensuring common security for the continent as a whole . as a result , europeans need to revisit their current security arrangements , to analyze what happened , and to take that analysis into account in reforming these arrangements . even before the georgian crisis , russia had already seen a need to revisit european security mechanisms , including its international and regional institutions , as well as its functions . we suggested a new , legally binding treaty system of common security guarantees to ensure equal security across europe . the european union believed that the russian initiative was well grounded , and showed interest in launching such a project .
princeton – should rallies by neo-nazis and white supremacists be satisfied with violence ? this was a question that tragic events in charlottesville , virginia , on august 12 . a women , heather heyer , were killed , and 19 people injured when james fields , a white nationalist , propelled his car at high speed to a mass of counter-protesters . the white supremacists held a rally calling for protest of the planned removal from the public park of a statue of robert e. lee , the leader of the confederate army during the civil war . a counter-protest was organized , and street fighting broke out again .
china ’s modest experiments with local elections have been complemented by exercises in a “ deliberative democracy . ” chinese officials have hired stanford university professor james fishkin to draft an representative sample of citizens from zeguo for an assembly use of keypad polling devices and handheld computers to decide how a city should spend $ 6 million of public-works budgets . the zeguo exercise was considered immensely successful and has been replicated elsewhere in china . these take the shape of zeguo hall ’s meetings . and wen indicated that village elections can be extended to the next highest level of government – township administrations – over the coming years .
european regulators had already introduced sophisticated monitoring and surveillance programs , blocked market access for countries with record-low levels of illicit fisheries , penalized rogue operators , and helped to encourage “ yellow or red carded carded ” countries to reform their fisheries laws . such efforts , for example , atlantic bluefin tuna catch , represent one of the most powerful tools to eliminate illicit fishing . working together could enable the application of the affordable , sophisticated technology for seafood traceability – a data and intelligence gathering that helps pinpoint , exactly where seafood comes from , and when and by whom it was captured . the eu , japan , and america would be even more efficient if they aligned their policies to stop criminals from accessing their markets , enabling legitimate actors to take advantage of “ supercharged ” ” levels of access . eliminating rogue fishing will help replenish marine life and protect food and livelihoods for billions of people .
but the metropolitan poor , faced with poor housing , limited infrastructure and meager services , are vulnerable to epidemics , malnutrition-based diseases , hiv/aids , malaria , tuberculosis , and mental disorder . indeed , many potential solutions stem from opportunities for innovation , created by people ’s physical concentration and economic activity . a second generic feature of emerging-market cities is that dense concentrations of poverty help create fragile environments that spawn civilian disorders , resulting in death and injury . but a recent symposium at oxford university concluded that emerging-market cities can improve and maintain urban health by capturing the inherent benefits of concentration , coordinating health policies and programs , embracing successful innovations , reforming health-care education and training , and developing improved planning processes . they are also likely to be hardest hit by natural disasters , such as floods and muddies that devastated parts of rio de janeiro in january .
this was followed by the june 2001 court ruling that the date was set for trial , which made it possible at last to submit the evidence to such individuals . the actions of the courts represent guatemala ’s first effort to bring highly unpopular military officials to trial . regrettably , the trial was delayed indefinitely because the defendants ’ lawyers appealed the case . i have been harassed , and campaigns to discredit me have been organized . our successes in myrna mack cases are notable , but achieving them has proved difficult : police investigator was validated ; judges were denied ; and witnesses fled into exile .
proponents of geoengineering are right about one thing : we are faced with a climate emergency that demands radical , urgent action . that has certainly not happened at last year ’s un climate change conference in katowice , poland . some major economies , including canada , ireland , the united kingdom , along with regions and towns , have now formally recognized the scale of the crisis . the united nations ’ inter-governmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) has made its way starkly apparent in october 2018 , reinforcing the mark last month , with its report on climate change and land . the question is whether this will translate into commitment to take needed action .
finally , macron ’s attempt to reset relations with russia is entirely in tune with france ’s gaullist tradition . mediating between the various systems and looking beyond the current incarnation of other countries was charles de gaulle ’s natural instinct . meanwhile , germany , europe ’s power with its closest historical and cultural ties with russia , is at the high end of the political cycle . it is both dangerous and unfair to underestimate german chancellor angela merkel , but it no longer has the clout or power to steer europe in its dealings with the outside world , nor to rally europeans on behalf of the europeans themselves . with the uk and germany currently incapable of playing a major diplomatic role , and italy , spain , and poland in no position to be principal actors , the conclusion is quite simple : partly by default , and partly because of its young president ’s sheer energy and imagination , this is france ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s moment .
new york – john maynard keynes , writing the rules along harry dexter white , viewed capital controls not as an interim expedient but as a permanent feature of the global economy . they understood that a democratic country would need the space to operate apart from independent monetary and fiscal policies . so they contemplated only “ lean in ” globalization , with capital flows restricted mostly to long-term lending and borrowing . the third path , identified by the trilemma , is to make national sovereignty altogether . the bretton woods regime collapsed in the 1970 ’s due to its inability or unwillingness , it is far from certain which leading governments can manage a rising tide of capital inflows .
over time , however , better attribution sics may enhance the role of punishment ; and better defenses through encryption or machine learning can increase the role of prevention and denial . moreover , as states and organizations come to understand better the limitations and uncertainties of cyberattacks and the increasing importance of internet entanglement to their own economic well-being , the cost-benefit calculations of the cyberwarfare utility may change . in any case , the strategic stability of cyberspace will be hard to maintain . for the simple reason that technological innovation in cyberspace is occurring faster than in the case of nuclear-armed states , cyberwarfare is characterized by a heightened , reciprocal fear of surprise . but if that makes traditional arms-control treaties impossible to verify , limits on certain kinds of civilian targets ( rather than weapons ) may still be established , and negotiate the rough road rules that limit conflict .
the georgian conflict was followed by a sharp drop in investor confidence . likewise , the decision to recognize kosovo ’s independence came only after russia made clear that it would veto a deal proposed by un secretary general anders fogh , former finnish president martii ahtisaari . even then , the us agreed to a further four months of eu-russia negotiations in order to ensure that no stone was left unturned in seeking a mutually acceptable compromise . in georgia , by contrast , russia moved from support for its territorial integrity to a breakup of the country in three weeks , relying entirely on military force to do so . russia must now ask itself the relationship between short periods of military victories and long-term economic prosperity .
the democracies that have constructed embody values that are antithetical to authoritarians ’ interests . more broadly , such a strategy could also begin to close the deepening transatlantic divide that trump ’s presidency has opened . the fracturing of the west is a welcome development in the eyes of russian president vladimir putin and illiberal regimes worldwide . authoritarians and populists would like nothing more than to sow the chaos and loss of trust in the postwar rules-based international order . finally , trump ’s jcpoa decision demonstrates , once again , that europeans relies far too heavily on america ’s security and prosperity .
knowledge-based organizations are forming a wide range of alliances with the media , and they play an important role in influencing public opinion , just as diplomacy does . modern international diplomacy involves giving greater influence to groups that lobby for rules , set standards , and collect technical data . on environmental issues , new institutions emerge that direct their work toward harmonizing criteria and indicators , especially employing in programs that certify sustainable uses of resources , as in the case of forests and fisheries . a host of international negotiations on issues like bio-safety and organic pollutants ( civics ) benefit from such alliances . knowledge-based institutions are also better equipped to deploy expanding global information infrastructure to influence diplomacy .
to be sure , a new grand coalition government , comprising german chancellor angela merkel ’s christian democratic union , its bavarian sister party , the christian social union ( csu ) , and the social democratic party ( spd ) , was formed . but it took more than five months for the parties to agree , and italy ’s largest opposition party is now the far-right alternative for germany ( afd ) . even germany has , to some extent , fallen victim to populist forces . in a country that seemed to have received a warm vaccinated against populism in its nazi history , this is a particularly distressing development . in a country that seemed committed to being vaccinated against right-wing populism in italy ’s nazi history , this is a notably distressing development .
its reluctance is understandable , since voters are evenly divided on the issue , and no one will invest a full cent in mexican oil or gas if the recently approved constitutional amendment on pemex can be overturned in 2015 , because opposition claims will happen . likewise , restraints and ambiguities continue to plague the institutional arrangements looking for the country ’s framers of political and electoral reforms . reelection is possible only for candidates nominated by the same party for which they originally ran and enabling legislation for autonomous candidates , ballots , and referenda remain unclear . most important , the government appears to be backtracking on a commitment to allow a binding referendum to reopen the oil sector and other “ transcendent ” issues . but curtailing democracy to modernize the energy sector is not a good idea .
regardless of the form it has taken , it has begun to receive some heavy blows only a few years ago ( analogous to the crises hitting exchange-rate targets in the 1990 ’s ) . perhaps the biggest deflationary setback hit in september 2008 , when it became obvious that the major central banks that had relied on it had under-priced asset-price bubbles on their own . central bankers had told themselves so much that they were lending asset markets all the attention they earned , by specifying that house and equity prices could be taken into account because they implied information about persistent inflation . but that escape clause proved inadequate : when a global financial crisis hit the global financial crisis ( suggesting , at least in retrospect , that monetary policy had been too loose from 2003 to 2006 ) , it neither preceded it nor followed the upsurge in inflation . that boom-and-bust cycle could have occurred without inflation should not have come as a surprise .
that fine is $ 2,000 per worker , far less than the current average premium of $ 16,000 for employer-provided family policies . when employers can avoid a mandate by cutting an employee ’s workweek to below 30 hours ( which the law defines as full-time employment ) . but even for full-time employees , firms are willing to opt for pay a relatively small fine , rather than offering insurance . rather than incur the cost of the approved policy premium , a clever employer can pay a fine for not providing insurance and raising employees ’ pay by enough time they have more spendable cash after having paid out a subsidized insurance policy . not providing insurance and paying a fine is a particularly attractive option for a firm , provided its workers have incomes that entitle them to government subsidies ( who are now available to anyone whose income is below four times the level of poverty ) .
the two cabinet ministers who resigned over the affair , robin cook and decry short , want their own revenge , and therefore continue to charge blair for his `` lies '' lies . thus far , blair has proven his resilience in such charges . indeed , he has gone on the defensive attacks , notably against the bbc , which has failed to support exactly the war with enthusiasm . but does the uncertainty these days turn circling blair like a vulture now denounce the appetizers ingly seoul of the lie ? or is that prime minister losing the trust of his own people , including some of his erstwhile cronies and their allies ?
increasingly obsessed with the prospect of its own citizens and practices coming under international scrutiny , the past few years have contributed to the widespread erosion of the un ’s human-rights surveillance system . it adamantly opposed a few crucial and promising new human rights initiatives , notably the international criminal court ( icc ) , and a new anti-torture mechanism . yet , without american support , the initiative was overwhelmingly endorsed in late july by the un ’s economic and social council . on the antitorture protocol , the u.s. sought to derail the creation of a university-based system of visits to sites of detention , under the optional un convention against torture . here america found itself allied with some strange bedfellows that it usually rebukes chronic human rights violators – cuba , china , iran , libya , sudan , or zimbabwe .
nor will one be enough to recall the historic merits of engagement , and britain ’s distinguished centuries-old role in ensuring that no country ever gained sole mastery over europe . what needs to be said for this : britain is at best at its best when it sees itself as a european leader . just as britain once led europe in the struggle against fascism , promoting democratic aspirations there , and charting the continent ’s response to the 2008 global recession , it should be present inside europe leading from that front . britain , which has always championed liberty , tolerance , and social responsibility , once again , to lead a progressive movement , spearheading action to fight climate change , resist protectionism , and incentivize sustainable growth . it must take the lead in mobilizing europe to make the global economy work for people , protecting them from injustice and inequity .
yet the expectations of reasonable consumer protection are built into the us economies as well . if a company sells you a car that , say , unreasonably tested , the resulting damages , the company pays a price . a restaurant can not be allowed to hold responsibility for serving up expired food simply by posting a sign saying , “ customers beware . ” the same goes for practically any other consumer-facing business , from airlines to foods providers . when it comes to facebook , moreover , us users are not just passive consumers , given corporate traffics in their data .
the implicit model is that of the “ guest worker ” who comes and go ; in practice , a sizeable proportion of economic migrants from poorer parts of europe stay in their countries of destination countries , fueling increased support for anti-immigrant parties . so what should be done ? the eu ’s asylum system is totally unprepared to deal with a new generation of refugees who are ineligible under the existing framework , owing to they are fleeing not from the specific acts of persecution , but from the disintegration of their own states . it can be granted “ humanitarian protection ” or granted “ discretionary leave ” to remain ” ” ” ” for a short period ; but then it may be deported like illegal immigrants . the eu ’s asylum system is totally ill-prepared to deal with a new generation of refugees who are ineligible under the existing framework by fleeing not out of the specific acts of persecution , but out of the disintegration of their states .
in other words , ms. obama is managing to establish himself up , unprecedentedly , as the “ people first lady ” is . in her brief lifetime , she was often lauded for attributes ( her beauty and style ) that were secondary to her life ’s work ’s work , and derided for other aspects of her own character ( her tionality and its disproved personal life ) that stood beside the point . as a result , very few people noticed how genuinely , powerfully transformative her agenda was , how well she thought it out and how audaciously she sought to manage it . princess di ’s legacy in generating iconography , which has opened the way for tremendous social change , is grossly under-appreciated . she has studied carefully not only jackie kennedy , a comparison apparent from her sheath dresses , boat collars , and page-boy haircut , but also the triumphs and failures of that other glamorous but under-appreciated steve radical , princess diana .
the protracted brexit process is undermining the bank of england ’s longer-term policy strategy , while the short-run impact of global growth on governments ’ trade-tariff weaponization is complicating the challenge both the fed and the ecb . meanwhile , certain pro-growth policies currently being mooted could , if not well designed , increase the risk of disruptive financial instability , deepening central bankers ’ task further . instead , both are busy designing yet another round of stimulus to involve even more policy and policy risks . already , other risks are giving central bankers some of the benefit of capital headaches on the ground . the notion of “ people ’s qe ” – that is , a more direct channeling of central-bank financing to population growth , gains more attention from both sides of the political spectrum .
clearly , ak zhol used accusations of impropriety as a weapon against government parties . he himself presided over numerous violations , a reality noted by the osce back in 1999 . the election , however , represented a major leap forward . indeed , many opposition groups were engaged in dirty tricks . he resigned only after winning elections to parliament .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on its current course for many years to come . china ’s economic performance over the last four decades has been truly impressive . after all , iran and the united states have already been at war for decades , and neither side has any interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
and it is the only reliable platform for geopolitical engagement in the asia-pacific region that is unparalleled in its ability to convene meetings attended by all of the world ’s great powers , from the united states and the european union to china and russia . asean , for its part , continues to face significant challenges . its combined gdp has been growing , from around $ 95 trillion in 1970 to more than $ 2.5 trillion in 2014 . yet asean ’s long-term progress is undeniable . over the short term , it seems to be moving like a crab , with two steps forward , one step backward , and , at first , a step sideways .
when samuelson adopted the topic in his 1947 book , he did not look at the brain , but rely instead on “ revealing preference . ” humans ’ goals are exposed only by observing their many economic activities . under samuelson ’s guidance , a generation of economists has built their research not on any physical structure of underlying thought and behavior , but only on the assumption of rationality . as a result , glimcher is skeptical of prevailing economic theory and seeks a physical basis in brazil . much of modern economic and financial theory is predicated on the supposition that people are rational , thereby systematically maximizing one ’s own happiness or , as economists call it , their “ utility ” .
central-bank balance sheets inflated , while the policy rate reached their “ near zero ” lower bounds . with no sign of faster inflation , and growth still tepid and a fragile one , many are predicting chronic , with some even fearing another global recession . yet policymakers have one more option : a shift to “ purer ” fiscal policy , in which they directly fund government spending by printing money , is what they call a helicopter drop . there is plenty of cheap water , it seems , but the horse refuses to drink . the new money would bypass the financial and corporate sectors and go straight to the thirstiest horses : the middle – and the lower-income consumers .
over the next few months , newspapers and tv stations ran into stories about as they froze into a national obsession . it quickly became a story of “ rich versus poor , ” widely cited as a high-level example of corruption . alarmed by public reaction , the harbin magistrate ordered the reopened case , only to have a suspended sentence confirmed when the case closed this march . the judge ’s ruling spurred rumors that he went easy on her because her husband was related to senior provincial officials . the case went to a local court , where the judge ruled it a “ exorbitant traffic disturbance ” and handed the driver a two-year suspended sentence .
repeated military interventions by major muslim nations – such as egypt , indonesia , pakistan , and even turkey – have impeded orderly political development . but those countries of a rising middle class have started to shift their political systems in another direction , a testament to the power that they now wield . that power has grown for a number of reasons , the most important of which is demographic . most large muslim countries have very young populations , with the median age at the map – to upper twenties . with more than half of these countries ’ population under the age of 30 , political development has struggled to move ahead despite the recalcitrance of entrenched elites .
the goal is to implement a comprehensive package of fiscal responsibility laws that curb the capacity of legislatures and ministers to increase spending relentlessly . regulations are needed to impose limits on deficits , spending , and debt ; and to require transparency , so that the public knows what needs to be laid off . third on the panel ’s lists are increased infrastructure investment . while latin american economies are doing well now through reform and high commodity prices , there are underlying problems . if combined with a genuine commitment to develop fiscal credibility , countries could shore up their economic-growth rates substantially .
a new report by the pathways for the prosperity commission on technology and inclusive development , established at oxford university ’s blavatnik school of government , suggests how countries can tackle this problem . second , countries must focus on building the underlying digital infrastructure that is needed for sustained success and avoiding the allure of recent shiny innovations . the report urges them to establish a foundation of digital building blocks ” – including basic infrastructure and skills , to harness positive disruptions to education and health services . all too often , developing nations have seized on new technology – “ distribute tablets to schoolchildren ” ! this has led to numerous disappointing pilot projects that have proved unable to deliver sustainable impact at scale .
but , globally , there are hard to deny that the global economy lacks momentum . in part , this is because tree can not grow forever : china ’s economy could not continue to contract 10 % larger each year . and partly as a result of growth is not unprecedentedly desirable : citizens can be better off with slightly less of it and more clean air . nonetheless , many countries remain poor in order to be endowed with strong growth potential , and many others , however rich , have yet to recover from the global financial crisis . so there must be something else to keep growth backward .
in april 2009 and again in april-may 2010 , disenfranchised red shirts camped in bangkok ’s streets to demand new elections , but were dispersed by the army , with a 91 fatalities . despite their setbacks and lost credibility following the torching of bangkok ’s central business district , red shirts have grown in number , demonstrating monthly against abhisit ’s ’s government . and , after more than two years , the pad ’s yellow shirts have also returned to the streets , citing their disillusion with abhisit ’s . pad leaders now denounce all politicians as corrupt and extol the monarchy virtue . exploiting the weapons of an anti-corruption drive and rising nationalism ( the product of cambodia ’s periodically violent border dispute ) , the royalist-conservative movement implicitly points to the extra-constitutional solution to thailand ’s political standoff .
industry analysts predict that ai will drive growth in the years and decades to come . gartner , a research and advisory enterprise , estimates that ai-enabled tools will generate $ 2.9 trillion in business value by 2021 , with pwc forecasts that ai could do just as much as $ 15.7 trillion to the global economy by 2030 . some estimates indicate that ai companies could save as much as $ 4 trillion annually with ai automation . and company benefits will go far beyond savings as automation forges innovation ; improve forecasting , optimize operations ; and lead to better customer service . in any technological transition , those driving change can not lose sight of the human element ; there are some things , even the smartest machines will never do .
as is often the case , this is not what you do n’t know , but what you mistakenly think you might actually know , that hurts you . and the idea that cities and countries actually specialize and that therefore should specialize is one of those very wrong and dangerous ideas . because they can not be good at everything , they must concentrate on whatever is the best at – that is , on their comparative advantage . they should make a few things “ very well ” and exchange them for other kinds of goods that are made better elsewhere , thereby exploiting the gains from trade . but , while some of their ideas are intuitive or self-evident , they also can be both wrong and dangerous .
europe would be infinitely better off if germany had made a definitive choice between eurobonds and a eurozone exit without regard for the outcome ; indeed , germany would have been better off as well . as a result , the trouble is that it was not forced by germany to choose . it can continue to do no more than the minimum to preserve the euro . it can continue to do no more than the minimum to preserve the euro . the situation deteriorates and , over the longer term , it is bound to become unsustainable .
but the bilateral relationship has deepened significantly lately , exemplified in last week ’s forum , which resulted in more than 25 trade and other agreements covering fields ranging from agriculture to technology . both leaders gush that their two countries are now on better terms than ever before . for russia , closer ties with china are no doubt enticing . after five years of international sanctions imposed on russia after its annexation of crimea , xi ’s overtures provide an ostensibly welcome reprieve . yet , well before putin posts too much faith in xi ’s role , he would do well to recall the 1860s soviet dissident song , a people ’s brothers one ; i will hug the chinese , ” who mocked ill-fated early attempts at a russo-chinese union .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . warsaw – donald tusk ’s term as president of the european council will end on march 30 – which is perfect timing for the polish opposition . following its parliamentary election in late october , poland will hold its presidential election in april 2020 , with opposition voters already seeing tusk as the only viable candidate .
one does not particularly want to lend on a daily basis , but if one is prepared to pay for , say , $ 200 to rent by a party of dinner , the trouble might well be worth it . and if one wants him to pay , rezz.it can help to collect without feeling as a cheapskate . one can find a high price to compensate for inconvenience , and make money on a downside . and you may post diverse prizes across times : $ 20,000 to rent my house in london during the olympics , $ 10,000 over christmas , or about $ 1,000 anymore . or you may have a set of under-utilized room chairs .
following high-level negotiations among chinese vice premier liu he and us trade representative robert lighthizer this month , outstanding issues should be agreed upon at the international conference in beijing in early november . fifth , the two sides should regard last year ’s november 14-16 asia-pacific economic cooperation summit in santiago as the last chance for the signing of an agreement . getting the agreement done before thanksgiving will be critical to undergird american business and consumer confidence for the christmas season . but the recently announced impeachment proceedings against trump could throw a wrench into that process . i am one of the few commentators who have argued out every year that , despite the political fireworks that trump and xi its underlying interest rate makes the deal more likely than not .
but the two concepts are often used interchangeably and rarely defined precisely . european union institutions , as well as germany , tend to prefer “ strategic autonomy , ” while france favors the notion of european sovereignty . in seeking to clear matters , my colleagues and i recently proposed operationalized definitions of “ european strategic autonomy . ” we understand strategic autonomy as the ability to set one ’s own priorities and make one of ’s own decisions on matters of foreign policy and security , together with institutional , political , and material means to realize these choices , either in collaboration with third parties or alone , if need be . we have also analyzed presumably barriers , difficulties , and conflict should , perhaps , german and european policymakers decide to follow through on this objective .
indeed , eradication of poppy crops not only harms local communities and undermines the international community ’s goals , but also is failing : opium production last year was at an all-time high . in september , the united nations office on drugs crime announced that poppy cultivation soared by a factor of record-high 60 % . eradication will never succeed in afghanistan , because it destroys a unified crop that grows in the south ’s harsh climate , thereby serving as the main source of income to millions of people . so a new , long-term , economically sustainable solution is urgently needed – one that directly engages the very communities that are suffering most , in order to provide aid to deeply impoverished rural populations . as a way to address this dilemma , the senlis council proposes running science pilot projects to research the opium licensing system for afghanistan , which would be an essential component of the economic reconstruction process .
ninety-five percent of muslims , including the majority of their religious leaders , want only living in peace , and putting an end to islam ’s long humiliation that only the advent of democracy and development in the muslim world can make any chance . but the bush administration scares the us , too . the notion of preventive war is poised to incite precisely that clash of civilizations that was predicted ten years ago , and that must be avoided . the muslim faith counts one billion men and women worldwide among its adherents . they have declared war on our civilization , and are ready to engage in homicide to put an end to western domination .
but blindly sticking to principle would have been a high-risk option for the ecb . it would have meant accepting in 2012 what used to be called “ the redenomination risk ” – an economic newspeak for a eurozone breakup . likewise , german legal scholars interpret the ecb ’s actions as being incompatible with european treaty provisions prohibiting bailouts and monetary financing of maturing eurozone members ’ debts . indeed , it seems that the typical northern european fdp supports the typical stakeholder in northern european banks that are overly exposed to southern european debtors . yet , by launching its omt scheme , the ecb has committed german ( and other northern european ) taxpayers , without their parliaments ’ approval , to the potential obligations to bail out well , whom exactly ?
such partnerships could drive trump to strike a deal with iran , which is more than willing to fight sunni radicals in iraq and syria . by equating the struggle against isis with the soviet union , trump elevates a terrorist organization to the status of a great-power state . this contributes to perceptions that isis is far more potent than it actually is , again playing to the hands of isis recruiters . yet , trump has also expressed his interest in cooperating with russia to bring down isis , seemingly inattentive to russia ’s involvement in syria focused on propping up assad ’s regime . iran is now permitting russian long-range bombers to use one of its airbase to hit syria , complicating obama ’s already-strenuous efforts to achieve a level of understanding with russian president vladimir putin on ending iran ’s civil war .
indeed , a recent mckinsey survey found not only that europeans aspire to a more vibrant economy , rising incomes , and improved public services ( particularly in health care and education ) , but also readiness to accept tradeoffs , including longer hours and reduced social protection , to achieve them . as it stands , european economic output per capita remains well below 2008 levels . in most european countries , gross sovereign debt exceeds the threshold ( 60 % of gdp ) set by the stability and growth pact . a whopping 91 % of 16,000 respondents said that they would favor changes to the status quo , even if this requires some sacrifices . and there is the urgent need for a change in the status quo .
colombo – sri lanka has been deservedly praised for the progress that it made since the end of the war against the separatist tamil tigers in 2009 . the economy grew at an average annual rate of 6.7 % , and both education and health statistics are impressive . all developing countries face myriad challenges , but that is especially the case for a country that endured the escalating thirty years of civil war . underlying wars , such as the struggle with the tamil tigers , are typically , social , and economic grievances , such as the real and perceived discrimination , and the government ’s failure to address wealth and income disparities properly . the government will need to set its priorities ; success will require a comprehensive approach .
but any condemnations by pius of communism would have been exploited by nazi propaganda as he advocates for hitler ’s wartime effort . very few people in the vatican , indeed , in europe at large , had any real knowledge in those days of immense industrial might of the united states . and the condemnation of nazism might have been misinterpreted as an attack not against nazism , but against germany in its life-and-death struggle against stalin 's communist regime . the pope believed that it could either condemn both totalitarian powers or condemn neither . western democracies , as most historians now acknowledge , played a comparatively minor role in the great military struggle .
i am convinced that the economic and social impact of such data will rival , even surpass , the roles that both petroleum and the internal combustion engine played in the twentieth century . networked , its effects , and its advantages will multiply , and then grow further . by its nature , data easily overflow physical impediments . networked , its effects , and advantages multiply further and then multiply further . conversely , should the equivalent of even one cover-up look anywhere , the resulting losses extend across networks .
governments in both countries have focused their scarce political capital and administrative resources on areas other than trade liberalization . in the meantime , serious trade reform did not begin until at least 1991-93 . because both india and china did increase trade substantially , both in dollar terms and trade are seen as globalizers by the criterion of the world bank . but as their experience reveals -- along with the experiences of many others , such as south korea , brazil , taiwan , and vietnam -- deep trade liberalization is hardly ever a factor in fostering higher growth and expanding trade early on . it is good to see the world bank catching up to this simple reality .
he seemed deeply engaged , but made no comment , asking me only if i had anything in writing . i felt that the request was a test , one that i was prepared to take , as i carried out maps with me in forward air-control planes . i said that i did , but it was in longhand . i felt that prodigious , restless energies that i suspected that he could not turn off if i had sought to recount my observations last time , took me to a map of vietnam , asking me to locate “ areas of destruction . ” he had suggested that i produce a typed copy , and granted me the office of the general left .
but that is slowly changing , especially as more people in emerging economies connect to mobile networks , and well-designed apps to collect and share agricultural information become increasingly accessible . in west africa , private companies like ignitia are expanding the accuracy and accuracy of sms weather alerts to distant farmers . in mongolia , rural herders receive information about disease outbreaks to help them maintain the health of their own livestock . for example , in egypt , sudan , and ethiopia , local extension services deliver real-time weather data to vegetable farmers through sms . currently , such types of innovations are n’t featured prominently in most hunger-alleviation strategies .
brussels – as the world ’s financial elite converges on washington , dc , for the annual meetings of the international monetary fund and the world bank , they can not escape another aggrieved call to reverse the retreat of globalization . faltering trade , it is presumed , must be an adverse trend that needs to be addressed . but the assumption is an simplistic one , at best . to be sure , an effort has been underway to grasp the current slowdown . the problem lies in a lack of understanding of what has drove the rise of trade in recent decades .
just as china resisted the temptation of renminbi depreciation during the asian financial crisis of 1997-98 – a decision that may have played a pivotal role in arresting regional contagion – it had to stay that course today . that is all the more important in a disorderly scramble for qe , where china ’s role as the world ’s currency anchor may hold on an even greater significance than it did in the late 1990s . finally , a renminbi-depreciation policy would lead to sharp escalation of the global currency war . in an era of unprecedented quantitative easing , competitive currency devaluation became the norm for the world ’s major exporters – first america , then japan , and now europe . if china joined that race to the bottom , others would be tempted to escalate their actions , and world financial markets would be subject to yet another source of severe instability .
policymakers and business leaders also need to be much more responsive to how the fruits of economic growth are shared ; among other things , there should be better protections for the most vulnerable segments of society , and stronger automatic stabilizers . prolonging the current expansion will require great care . for starters , policymakers – especially the congress party – need to avoid big mistakes and minimize the risk of market crashes , while doing more to promote growth . and while fiscal policymakers might be more responsive , starting from the standpoint of relatively high deficits and debts , they should begin . what america needs is a well-focused approach to modernizing and upgrading its infrastructure .
for many years , the imf has engaged its member countries in a process known as “ surveillance , ” ” ” ” in which it monitors , analyzes , and consults on each country ’s economic policies – both exchange-rate policies and relevant domestic policies . such periodic checkups help to identify potential vulnerabilities and maintain economic stability . nonetheless , the globalized economy ’s increasingly complicated policy challenges demand fresh view of the process . this june , the imf ’s executive board did just that , reaching a broad consensus on updating surveillance to make it more narrowly and efficient . that is one of the most important reforms to the fund ’s work in the 30 years since the surveillance process was first designed .
four measures are needed to achieve this . first , a debt conference is needed , with the creditors of southern european governments and banks relocating to part of greece . creditors relinquishing a portion of their claims must include public entities , first and foremost the ecb , that have now largely replaced the private lenders . second , eurozone members , whose road during the transition to restore competitiveness via price and salary cuts , are too long and grueling , and whose societies run the risk of rents asunder through the necessary imposition of austerity , will have to temporarily exit the monetary union . the pain of exiting should be bridged with communal financial help , which would be unnecessary for long , because a devaluation of the new currency would quickly restore competitiveness .
steps in this direction would greatly improve ukraine ’s relations with the eu and american . these three steps would not resolve all of the difficulties in ukraine ’s relations with the eu . the selective use of justice has badly damaged the yanukovych administration ’s reputation . this is important , because ukraine has been fulfilled only partly in fulfilling imf agreements that it signed in 1994 , 2008 , and in 2010 . finally , the eu should insist that ukrainian authorities halt all politically motivated criminal cases and release those who are being incarcerated for political crimes .
arguing that his effort to improve relations with russia is in america ’s national interest , trump , soon after the summit invited putin to visit the white house in the near future . putin has just acted with the invitation of trump to come to the kremlin . for many members of america ’s security establishment , putin ’s apparent influence over trump poses an existential threat to american democracy , much as the soviet union did at the height of the cold war . but trump ’s bullying ( and desire to thwart his critics ) is no substitute for genuine openness to mutually beneficial cooperation , like that seen in 1959 , when dwight eisenhower invited nikita khrushchev to visit the us , and again in 1986 , when mikhail gorbachev and ronald reagan met in reykjavk . instead , trump ’s actions just look like more kowtowing , raising the hackles of other american leaders .
washington , dc – this month , european citizens heads to the polls to elect the european parliament ’s 751 members to represent their 507 million people . to be sure , european parliamentary elections have delivered smaller shares of voter turnout at polling : 43 % in 2009 , compared to nearly 60 % in 1978-1994 . nonetheless , the rate of participation in the past decade is comparable to average turnout in america ’s congressional elections . how the election campaign unfolded marks a small but significant step in creating the first supranational political space in europe – indeed , the world – in history . given europe ’s perceived remoteness from the european parliament , and widespread frustration with europe ’s bureaucracy , levels of participation and movements towards supranational politics are notable .
nevertheless , the bombing was not encased in metal , and terrorist was the only people killed . to an outsider , the episode looks like a colossal security setback , as if the fbi ’s head personally greeted one of bin laden ’s lieutenants at his garden party . but it is only this very personalized form of politics adopted by saudi royals with defecting attention from al-qaeda ’s members . indeed , this policy , even its risks , partly explains al-qaeda ’s defeat in saudi arabia . highly personalized politics forms part of what might be called saudi arabia ’s corporate theater of statehood that keep royals firmly in power .
it was said of prime minister levi eshkol that he made a speech in seven languages , all of them in yiddish . yet what appealed to the outside world was not always an asset in the crude and tumble of israeli politics . together with golda meir and moshe dayan , who was forced to leave government in 1974 , in the run-up to the yom kippur war . together with golda meir and moshe dayan , who was forced to leave the government in 1974 , whom the yom kippur war was about to pass . yet what appealed to the outside world was not always an asset in israeli politics .
northern european europeans with money to invest were willing to lend on perfectly easy terms to those in the southern who wanted to spend , and ample pre-2007 spending made employers willing to raise wages rapidly . as a result , southern europe adopted an economic configuration of which its wage , price , and productivity levels had made sense only so long as greece spent € 13 for every € 12 that it earned , with northern europe funding an inadequate euro . but whether europe as a whole avoids losing decades of economic growth still hangs in the balance , so depends on whether southern european governments can quickly regain competitiveness . the process by which southern europe became uncompetitive in the first place was being driven by market price signals , by incentives those signals created for entrepreneurs and by how entrepreneurs ’ individually rational responses played out in macroeconomic terms . at the same time , northern europeans embraced wage and productivity levels that made sense only as long as greece spent less than one euro per euro to every euro it earned .
after all , competition between the us and china extends far beyond trade . last october , us vice president mike pence bluntly accused china of technology theft , predatory economic expansion , and military aggression there . though the us maintains its military , technological , financial , and soft-power edge , china has been steadily catching up , leading to bipartisan support within the us for a more confrontational approach . a full-scale global economic downturn is the last thing the world needs at a time when it is already beset by risks , including possible no-deal brexit and populist gains in the european parliament election in may . to be sure , while trump will not rescue his allies , his primary objective remains china .
a common theme that emerges from studies of so-called place-based policies , such as regionally targeted employment subsidies and investment in infrastructure , is the over-contingent nature of success . competitions between states and localities to attract large employers with tax and other subsidies work particularly badly . few policies work off the shelf , shifting reliably across diverse settings . recent high-level deals over foxconn and amazon , in wisconsin and new york respectively , have exploded . they can be responsive and periodically revised , if only through an iterative process of strategic interactions between public agencies and private firms .
shanghai – after decades of spectacular expansion , china is facing the difficult task of managing a soft economic landing . china has the advantage that other countries in today ’s troubled global economy are lacking : a clear path forward . if they do , its annual gdp could be an estimated $ 5 trillion larger by 2030 than it would be likely if policymakers continued to pursue investment-led growth . naysayers abound , but never mind them so . if china performs a sustained , comprehensive anti-corruption drive , it can address its growth challenges , reduce the risks of a financial crisis , and complete its consumption-driven transition , a high-income economy with a large and affluent middle class .
london – as governments across western europe have begun bailing out the banks and their depositors , east europeans have watched nervously , uncertain of what a global financial storm would mean for them . now that the storms have hit , the fragile bonds of european solidarity are being tested . two countries , hungary and ukraine , have already called for large subsidy packages . several more could have done so over next month , unless freezing credit markets do not have a thaw in sight . if matters continue until the late year that can not be ruled out , many more countries might experience severe banking crises .
but the big question for health professionals , then , is whether the quantity or quality of foods is to blame . that is an important distinction , because quantity is determined by the user , whereas quality determines the industry . for example , sugar is consistently the ingredient with the highest score on yale food-dependence scale , which measures people ’s eating food cravings . the processed food industry contends that “ you need sugar to live . ” some health specialists argue that concrete components of processed foods , particularly sugar , are as addictive as cocaine and heroin , to be sure .
a closely coordinated effort amongst private - and public-sector partners to deliver the oral polio vaccine to every child under five was the key to success . globally , international aids and un agencies were working closely with national governments , revising the precise needs of massive malaria-immunization campaigns aimed at reaching hundreds of millions of children . last year alone , the world health organization ’s polio eradication initiative delivered nearly two billion doses of polio vaccine coverage to 575 million children in 94 african countries . in each country , partners including rwandan health minister , the world health organization , unicef , other un agencies , service groups like rotary international , representatives from donor governments , the private sector , and non-governmental groups , jointly and carefully planned each immunization campaign . every detail , from the numbers of these bicycles and boats needed to deliver vaccines to otherwise inaccessible territories , to refrigerators and cool boxes needed to maintain the vaccine potent , even the batteries needed to power them were counted and budgeted .
with the bloc being splintering into distinct political tribes , it is becoming easier for other powers to pursue a divide-and-conquer strategy . that has long been russia ’s strategy , and now is embraced by the us and china as well . still , one wonders whether the eu is capable of inserting itself into a united front . for example , in 2016 , southern and eastern eu member states relying on chinese investment has managed to waters off the joint eu declaration on china ’s own territorial encroachments in the south china sea . in an increasingly networked world , a new g6 might offer the defense of the rules-based system .
in fact , corruption is one of africa ’s endemic problems . but the winds of globalization were intended to blow away the cobwebs of bribery and inefficiency . indeed , it is the key issue in nigeria ’s upcoming presidential election , given president obasanjo ’s highly minded but unsuccessful struggle to curb it . evict the state from direct economic activity , curb its discretionary powers , and both by economic efficiency and governance improve . harvard political scientist josé antonio h kleur suggests why it does not .
florence – the europeans who are eager to revive the continent ’s unification process have lately shifted their focus to that of the united states . but there are striking parallels between america ’s founding years and the european union ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ongoing political and economic crisis . others , accepting that federalist principles might be well suited to address the problems of the european common market , despair that the “ european people ” who might bring about this new political structure is missing . in reality , the creation of the american constitution and of birth in the american people offer reasons to hope that some of the harshest issues facing europe can one day be resolved . nevertheless , many on the left reject america ’s precedent on the grounds that today ’s problems are much too dissimilar from those encountered .
moscow – the ongoing street protests in hong kong and moscow have doubtless spooked the authoritarian duo of chinese president xi jinping and russian president vladimir putin . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of rising challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world .
by 651 , almost all of the major urban centers in persia were under arab control , adding momentum to the process . the following year , the persian shia emperor , yazdegerd iii , fled to khorasan ’s border province and the settler of persia has begun , with persians grabbing arab names and translating into islam . the mass conversion to islam among persians was the first step toward establishing the first caliphate , a political-religious state comprising any muslim lands . at various moments in their history , the caliphates extended across asia , africa , and parts of europe . the effort by a variety of forces seeking to control or restore a caliphate was a recurrent theme throughout islam ’s history .
the russian government ’s unwillingness to fight corruption and shore up the country ’s legal institutions reflects a perverse – yet stable – political equilibrium . in may 2010 , tsyvinski and i predicted a “ 70-80 scenario ” in russia in the coming years : since the oil prices that plummeted to $ 40 per barrel , they have recovered and exceeded $ 70-80 / barrel , russia will revert to the stagflation of the 1970 ’s and 1980 ’s . sure enough , gdp growth between 2010 and 2012 , although a respectable 4 % , turned out to have been driven by a post-crisis recovery and a further spike in oil prices to $ 100/barrel . now all of these short-term factors have been exhausted , along with brezhnev-like periods of stagnation . russia ’s political elite understands that the economy is capable of achieving 5-6 % annual growth .
others , including mainstream economists like adair turner , a former chairman of the uk ’s financial services authority , have called for “ helicopter drops ” : outright monetary transfers to consumers through central-bank-financed fiscal deficits . left-wing proponents of so-called modern monetary theory argue that larger sustained fiscal deficits are sustainable when monetized during periods of economic slack are growing at the risk of overshooting inflation . following this logic , in the uk , the labor party proposed “ people-to-people qe , ” ” ” whereby the central bank would print money to finance outright fiscal transfers to households rather than bankers and investors . still others , such as former fed vice chair stanley fischer and his colleagues at blackrock , proposed a fed “ standing emergency fiscal facility , ” ” which would allow the central bank to finance large fiscal deficits when a deep recession hits . despite differences in terminology , all of these proposals are variants of the same idea : large fiscal deficits monetized by central banks should be used to stimulate aggregate demand in the event of another slump .
when the private sector does , transforming ideas into bankable projects is often very difficult , because many difficult-to-coordinate public-sector decisions or actions are involved . the bidders need only plan for two phases : engineering , procurement , and construction ( epc ) ; and a lengthy phase of operation when the toll revenues are collected in order to recover costs and their expected yield levels . there are plenty of uncertainties in both phases , but especially during the epc , which may last 3-7 years , depending on the project . most developing nations that i know are spending too little money devising good projects , so that they do not know how to do so . hence , let ’s assume that a perishable road project is approved , a concession contract is ready , and companies offer on it .
with some governments abandoning previous un commitments to cut emissions , one might think that the global effort to address climate change is losing steam . but we should not underestimate the power of financial stress to effect change , or can we ignore the resolve of local governments and the private sector to take action when national governments did not . in addition , there is a clear business rationale for prioritizing the green finance.funders and rating agencies increasingly scrutinizing investment portfolios of potential “ stranded assets , ” ” ” such as petroleum and gas projects , that will become obsolete as more renewable-energy technologies become commercially viable . but , to get and hold on to all governments on board , the low-carbon transition must be inclusive . many of the existing fossil-fuel projects already have shorter life spans than were previously anticipated , with financial portfolios relying heavily on such assets to be increasingly at risk of devaluation .
a less agressive anti-europeanism comes from a trend that fights for old values like honor and virtue . a less agressive anti-europeanism comes from a trend that fights for old values like honor and virtue . but here the people active in the formerly “ solidarity ” movement – for them a movement of communities rather than of individuals , movements for public rather than private freedom – form the new bloc of euro-antagonists . more recently , a group of members of parliament ( quite the big one – 30 deputies ` ) left the majority post-solidarity party , creating a new " polish family " with the slogan that the ruling coalition is in “ the service of brussels . " in practice , this movement also motivates little more than the fear of change .
an alternative hypothesis that seems to fit fact has lately emerged from paul woolley ’s center for studies of dysfunctionality in capital markets , at the london school of economics . researchers argue that , in fragile , specifically , speculative industries ( and finance have certainly been at that category in recent years ) , it is hard for investors to follow those who manage their money . they may see short-term returns , but they do not understand very well how those returns are generated . they may see short-term returns , but they do not understand much how those returns are generated . that may be part of the story , but the competition for proprietary talent and consumer talent looks intense between investment banks and everyone else , yet they have collectively been extravagantly rewarded , at the expense of those customers .
the united states is consistently ranked among the top ten countries for innovation , including insead ’s global innovation index . but , on the world peace index , it ranks 88th out of 153 countries . likewise , the united kingdom and the netherlands rank , six , and six on the index of innovation , respectively , but just 28th and 29th on the index of peace . conversely , bhutan ranks among the top 20 most peaceful nations in particular , but does not even make it up onto indices of innovation . to be sure , crime , terrorism , conflict , and political instability severe enough to cause the overall breakdown of law and order substantially impede creativity and innovation .
that may shorten the odds for margrethe vestager – whom the epp is not , but who is actually , the liberal spitzenkandidat – while lengthening them for michel barnier , who is from the epp but lacks spitzenkandidat . finally , the election provides a check on german hegemony within the eu more broadly . germany ’s christian democratic union ( cdu ) has been weakened , and both the country ’s greens have grown stronger . but merkel still defends weber , and , in addition to macron and dutch prime minister mark rutte , most eu leaders remain reluctant to confront the european parliament on the spitzenkandidaten issue . if the council succeeds at ruling weber and his populist supporters , macron will stage a comeback as a success .
madrid – on june 1 , 2007 , ban ki-moon , south korea ’s former foreign minister , will become united nations secretary-general , following kofi annan ’s on ten-year tenure . beyond the long-term challenges of poverty , environmental , nuclear proliferation , and un reform , the new secretary-general will inherit a long list of hotspots : iraq , iran , afghanistan , palestine , lebanon , somalia , myanmar , sudan , north korea , and elsewhere . annan inspired the world with his diplomacy and leadership on reducing poverty and reducing human rights , but the war in iraq has divided the world , drawing the attention and financial resources away from crisis regions and toward critical long-term issues like climate change , disease control , sustainable energy , and access to water . recent attempts to affect development in these countries through threats and sanctions , and sometimes in war , have utterly failed . with the recent elections in the united states , and the rise of asia ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s global influence , global influence , there is an opportunity to turn the world around its
that is why the disastrous free-for-all in terms of trade policy during 1930 ’s greatly aggravated the great depression . many complain that something similar , if a less spectacular degree in scope , takes hold today . an outfit called global trade alert ( fta ) has gotten to the brink , raising alarm bells about what it calls “ “ “ protectionist juggernaut ” . the gta ’s latest report identifies no fewer than 192 separate protectionist actions since november 2008 , with china as the most frequent target . this number was widely quoted in the case of the us financial press , and the united kingdom ’s finance ministry was heavily quoted .
when people enter a country in order to earn higher wages , the proportion of income-available pie gets larger ; but , if it comes to welfare benefits , the pie would get smaller . given this , why not have a system in which host countries and those in origin share the cost of welfare benefits for migrants ? host countries might assume responsibility for administering benefits , like unemployment insurance , the sick pay and pensions . and countries of origin could continue to provide benefits not to those of a job relationship , such as child allowances staying at home , and to services for migrants , who are too old or sick to work when they arrived . such a change would create switzerland ’s win-win situation , as it diminish the destructive appeal of welfare magnetism and gives britons the right to reconsider their exit decisions with their heads held high .
new york – what needs to be done has long been clear . the price of a monetary union ’s survival ’s survival , and therefore that of the european project , is more community : banking union , fiscal union , and political union . it has become common knowledge in europe that the ongoing crisis will either destroy the eu or bring about a political union , and that , unsolidarity-enhancing solutions to existing debt and partial mutualization of new debt , europe can not be brought to the rescue . those who resist that , fearing common accountability , transfers from rich to poor , and a loss of national sovereignty would have to accept europe ’s re-nationalization , hence its exit from the world stage . no alternative , and certainly not a statusquo , will work .
more bugs will need to be fixed , including fresh bugs found in fixes . thus , the result of just a few months of discussion could be better described as just emu 1.7.3 ” than “ emu 2.0 . ” for investors , the reform process may appear to be impossibly long , and hesitant . but , by the standards of international negotiations and european governance , it has experienced exceptionally swift . the eu is not deprived of instruments , so-called structural funds ” that finance investment in poorer regions , but it lacks a strategy for use .
its schools are funded by local communities , and work within the national curriculum engineered by the parliament and the government . as with corporate monopolies , consumers ( students ) are often viewed as a homogeneous mass , where all students , according to an identical pedagogical approach , could be educated . but schools must be able to meet the individual children ’s needs and competence in a manner that advances the learning adventure . after all , other countries might find sweden ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s system worth of study . while educational opportunities and structures have been gradually diversified , the main shortcoming of most european education systems remains : students have simply too few choices , and teachers if they want to stay within their profession have to adhere to severely compartmentalized pedagogy .
from that point on , they are in and out of the prison system , with little chance of ever getting the legal job that enables them to escape from poverty . their children grow up without a parent at home and without hope and support . what ’s mad about this is that the us has missed an obvious point , and has missed it in 40 years . drug users ’ children often become drug users themselves ; they , too , often end up in prison or suffer under violence or early death . to break a cycle of extreme poverty , a country needs investments in its children ’s future , not in the incarceration of 2.3 million people one year , many for nonviolent wrongdoers that are the symptoms of poverty itself .
in this services-export-led growth strategy , skill shortages did not grow into a big deal , thanks to a reasonably open immigration policy that enabled the country to exploit the talent that colombia had , among other countries , been unable to keep up . the comparison between the two approaches is obvious . colombia ’s policymakers were hoping that if they adopted best-practice legislation and regulation , it would bring somebody would come . and if they did not , they might still bask in the international accolades they received from foreign entities . colombia ’s policymakers were hoping that if they adopted best-practice legislation and regulation , they would arrive .
on the global level , the very countries that have spent too much – the united states , the united kingdom , spain , greece , and elsewhere – now need to deleverage and become more spending , consuming , and importing less . but over-saving countries – in china , emerging asia , germany , and japan – are not spending more to compensate for falling spending by deleveraging countries . moreover , there is now massive public-sector releveraging in advanced economies , with huge budget deficits and public-debt accumulation driven by automatic stabilizers , countercyclical keynesian fiscal stimulus , and the enormous costs of socializing the financial system ’s losses . at best , the us is facing a protracted period of anemic , below-trend growth in advanced economies like deleveraging by households , financial institutions , and governments starting to feed themselves through consumption and investment . restoring global aggregate demand will therefore be weak , pushing global growth well below that .
the present crisis , the fall of wall street , is meant to be neo-liberalism what the fall of the berlin wall in 1989 was to communism . the global dimension of this crisis , surprisingly , also has a strong side . the present crisis , the fall of wall street , is to neo-liberalism what the financial sector ’s fall following the fall of the berlin wall in 1989 was to communism . so far , a key part of the problem has been countries ’ unwillingness to cooperate . previous demands for more stringent regulation have came to naught nothing , owing to the financial sector ’s opposition .
after all , when a state ostentatiously seizes sides in this conversation , it can not avoid denigrating the ultimate convictions of many of its dissenting citizens . indeed , contrary to the french ’ militant liberalism , this neutralist philosophy strives to prevent either side in the ongoing culture war from exploiting state the coercive powers of taxation as a weapon in a struggle for the rights of men ’s souls . as much as possible , a liberal state should be neutral on such matters , leaving it to each citizen in order to determine whether it should give its financial support to the church of rome , or that at bayreuth . in advocating misunderstanding of both religious and secular orthodoxies , i do not wish to trivialize the significance of their ongoing contest over the meaning of life . it is because of the incontrovertible importance of this grand debate that state should strive to be neutral .
new york – twenty years after the fall of the berlin wall and the collapse of communism , the world faces yet another stark choice between two fundamentally distinct forms of organization : international capitalism and state capitalism . the previous , represented by the united states , has broken down , and the latter , represented by china , are on the brink of collapse . following a path of least resistance will lead to a gradual unraveling of the international financial system . a new , sound-based multilateral system must be devised . while there is a hard time international cooperation on regulatory reform , it may be attainable in a remarkable bargain that relay the entire structure of finance .
mario monti , the european union ’s commissioner for competition policy , is often on the spotlight , usually to popular acclaim . over the years , he has won important victories limiting state aid to entrepreneurship , one of europe ’s most pernicious economic maladies . yet today , the benefits derived from his achievements are at risk , owing to a spate of stunning courtroom defeats . within a matter of just a couple of weeks , the chief justice of the european court of justice ( to which private parties can appeal decisions made by the commission ) voided three of monti ’s decisions reject proposed corporate mergers . with the competition case against software giant microsoft apparently in the offing , commissioner monti will need to rediscover his state quickly .
time and again , however , un humanitarian assistance in africa came short , as it did in somalia in 2011 and 2012 ; in niger in 2005 ; and in ethiopia during the 1980s . then , as is now the case , food insecurity long anticipated long before the initial hunger pangs were felt . drought and hunger are slow-motion misfortune that with adequate planning and sufficient resource use , can be averted . so many proud and dignified people were stripped of their livelihoods , forced to rely on one-tiny meal per day or nowhere at all . worse , these talking tragedies were avoidable ; we knew that these crises were approaching .
the bottom chessboard includes transnational relationships that cross borders outside of governments – everything from drugs to infectious diseases to climate change to transnational terrorism . on this bottom board , power is chaotically distributed among non-state actors . here the u.s. needs assistance from the europeans , and it makes no sense to call this uni-polar world , either . no single government can dominate outcomes without the active voice of others . on this board , power is chaotically distributed among non-state actors .
translation : a orderly resolution of global megabanks is an illusion . as long as we allow cross-border banks on or near their current scale , our political leaders will be unable to tolerate their failure . this form of government support amounts to a large implicit subsidy to the big banks . and , because these large financial institutions are run by any meaningful definition “ too big to fail , ” ” ” they can borrow more cheaply than would otherwise be the case . worse still , both of them also have an incentive to grow even bigger .
and , by raising the costs of extracting fossil-fuel subsidies , it would contribute to an eventual phase-out of an industry that has no place in a climate-safe world . thankfully , the world will not have to wait until the moral suasion to carry the day . fossil-fuel companies and governments are already facing intensifying legal pressure . the dutch group urgenda and nearly 900 co-plaintiffs have successfully sued the dutch government , forcing it to adopt harsher climate policies . moreover , typhoon survivors in the philippines delivered a grievance to the country ’s human-rights commission , calling for an investigation by big fossil-fuel firms that are responsible for causing climate change .
some steps are needed to support the massive increase in internet use in these other locations : * telecommunications liberalization , including the entry of new providers of private services , is critical to lowering costs and disseminating benefits . just a couple of years ago , for example , the chip-maker national semiconductor administered a complicated delivery system that connects its three factories and three subcontractors in asia to its global customer network . it opted to out-source that operation to federal in these other locations : use a sophisticated on-line system to manage global deliveries and sales . as a result , the national semiconductor has seen its delivery cycle of sales to buyers cut from four weeks to a week , with distributional costs cutting from 2.9 % to 1.2 % sales .
as a result , the variant of the so-called tobin helicopter money is becoming increasingly debated . but the discussion about it is riddled with confusions . it is often argued that how expansionary fiscal deficits would commit central banks to keeping interest rates low forever , an approach that is bound to produce excessive inflation . if governments run larger fiscal deficits and then finance this not with interest-bearing debt but with central-bank money – nominal demand will no doubt grow , producing some the mix of higher inflation and higher real output . it is then simultaneously argued ( frequently by identical people ) that monetary financing would not stimulate demand , because people would fear a future “ inflationary tax . ”
geneva – when lehman brothers proclaimed bankruptcy ten years ago this month , it suddenly became unclear who had owed what to whom , who could no longer make payments of their debts , and whom to go next . the result was that interbank credit markets froze , wall street panicky , and businesses went under , not only in the united states but around the world . in hindsight , complacency in the run-up to the crisis was clearly inconclusive . and yet little has changed in its own aftermath . with policymakers struggling to respond to the crisis , economic pundits were left wondering whether the “ great moderation ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” of low business-cycle volatility since the 1980s morphed into yet another great depression .
aside from a few small particulars , the consensus prevails . should the spd , which votes on the coalition agreement in early december , block the formation of a new government ( an unlikely development , but not completely out of the question ) , disputes over security and defense matters would not be the culprit . its coalition partners disagree about how urgent it is to sort out this question . yet they agree , in a year that provides a diverse range of options and models for safeguarding the german parliament ’s rights , while offering assurances to germany ’s european partners that the country would be a reliable contributor to troop deployments . for some , that is a cause of ambivalence .
they typically argue that gm crops are unsafe – a view flatly rejected by the scientific community over the past two decades . badly needed biosafety legislation in nigeria and uganda , for example , has already been delayed . indeed , every new gm crop variety has to meet rigorous health , environmental , and efficacy standards . the world health organization has also come to confirm that the “ no human health impact ” of such foods has been shown because of consumption of such foods . much of the problem lies with a small group of anti-gm activists who object to technology on “ moral ” grounds .
if coverage is not complete , one can expect the regulated to complain that they have been placed at a competitive disadvantage . regulators ’ call for voluntary action will not amount to much when that is merely a request to the derivatives industry to act against its own financial interests . perhaps regulators will find that they must require that self-regulate be able to establish a desired contract provisions . that solution will be incomplete , but because not all derivatives traders are highly regulated financial institutions , and because many lenders would find ways to circumvent the contract and requirement . regulators may well need to turn to bankruptcy laws in order to fix the problem .
but even that was inadequate for britain ’s leaders , who tightened the law further in 1898 , made it even harsher than sedition laws in england . the result was section 124a of the penal code , under which any person who had used “ words , signs , or visible representation … to excite disaffection against the government ” could have been accused of sedition , with potentially sentenced to life imprisonment . sedition was thus explicitly intended as an instrument to terrorize indian nationalists ; indeed , mahatma gandhi was among his prominent victims , however far from his last . the british concluded , in the words of bengal ’s british lieutenant governor , that “ sedition laws adequate to a people ruled by a government of his own nationality and religious faith may be insufficient , or , in some respects , unsuited – for a country under foreign rule . ” in other words , not one of free speech for indians .
seoul – china , already the world ’s largest exporter , manufacturer , and international-reserve-asset holder , is poised to overtake the united states as the world ’s largest economy ( measured according to purchasing power parity ) this year . last month , china and 20 other asian countries signed a memorandum of understanding to establish a new multilateral development bank , the asian infrastructure investment bank , and the world trade organization . indeed , the country following deng xiaoping ’s injunction to “ hide brightness and slumdog obscurity ” is long gone . now , it is using its growing clout to reshape global economic governance . after decades of engaging actively with international economic institutions – including the g20 , the international monetary fund , the imf , and the world bank – china has begun to resemble a revisionist power seeking to establish a new world order .
achieving a global climate agreement promises not only to protect the environment , but also to cement europe ’s role as a leader in sustainability . already , progress on the single market has helped boost competitiveness . new free-trade agreements give europe ’s economies access to major markets worldwide . and eu enlargement has boosted europe ’s security substantially . these are , by all reasonable standards , a remarkable , uk-led achievement .
a special report on semiconductors – essential to america ’s national security and economic competitiveness – for president barack ’s obama ’s council of advisors on science and technology ( pcast ) provides some answers . the reports , written by a nonpartisan group of business and academic leaders ( i was a member ) , suggested by america ’s working with its allies to enforce international law , push china to comply with its world trade organization obligations , and cement export controls and inward investment restrictions . the pcast report recommends that america adopt similar tactics , fine-tuning export controls , and inward investment boundaries based on china ’s behavior . the european union , japan , south korea , and taiwan all have prominent roles in the global supply chain for semiconductors , and some have already tightened security on the flow of semiconductor ip to china and the acquisition of semiconductor corporations by chinese investors . bipartisan proposed legislation to expand the jurisdiction of the u.s. foreign investment committee ( which reviews mergers and acquisitions of domestic companies by foreign entities ) to a broader array of investments – including chinese venture capital and private-equity investments in us start-ups – fit this recommendation .
our livelihoods , not to mention those of future generations , should not be taken hostage by our ongoing dependence on fossil fuels . swift and determined action to make buildings more energy-efficient , design automobiles , which require very little or no fossil-fuel resources , and raise the electricity share could ensure that a substantially hotter and less agreeable world of the 2050 ipcc warns against may not materialize . business-led innovation and market-based solutions can drive a decisive global shift from crippling fossil-fuel dependence to more efficient renewable-energy schemes . four decades ago , countries not only endured opec ’s immediate economic impact ; they leveraged the resulting oil shortages to spur innovation . four decades ago , countries not only endured opec ’s immediate economic impact ; they leveraged the resulting oil shortages to spur innovation .
but what an international response , if any , would have been triggered had the “ cache ” cache had been very enriched ? on the same day , hamas launched three powerful iranian-designed rockets from gaza at israel ’s dimona reactor . its capture of enriched uranium was not weapons-grade ; us international inspectors eliminated all sensitive material from iraq following the 1991 gulf war ( which is to be cut off when the united states invaded in 2003 ) . but the episode represented a severe escalation of hostilities , and it served as an important reminder of the vulnerability of nuclear reactors in warzones . luckily , two had missed the goal , and israel managed to beset a third .
at the same time , not all indicators are bleak . labor markets remain predominantly healthy , even in otherwise anemic economies like germany , and household consumption remains strong in most major economies . moreover , the september surge in oil prices , which raised fears of another negative growth shock , has since receded . though dollar appreciation has given some downward pressure on non-us economies that depend on exports or foreign capital , it has raised the risk of an open-ended currency war . america ’s economy reflects this dichotomy .
he inspired broad public enthusiasm for the quality of his products and his personal charisma . ( others had become “ business ” leaders , only steve had become someone known , and admired millions – including the romanian waiter on the british airways , where i sit now in the world . ) i first met with steve back in 1979 , or in 1980 , at the personal computer forum of ben rosen . for one , the playboy resort in lake geneva went ( never again ! ) . in the personal-computing enterprise that had migrated from lky apple ii to sleek and intelligent iphone 4s ( announcing the day before steve ’s death ) , steve was the only true showman of what is now one of the world ’s largest industries .
cambridge – america ’s real gdp growth rate of 3.2 % for the first quarter of this year is impressive , as was the 3 % average growth rate in 2018 ( measured from the fourth quarter of 2017 to the fourth quarter of 2018 ) . from the late great recession in 2011 to 2017 , america ’s economy was growing at just 2.1 % per year , on average . what accounts for the recent acceleration ? and that shift would occur at a time of rising challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us might well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
the impact would be greatest ( the result of roughly 20 % of women who are elected ) in systems that now lack effective quota legislation . as part of the open-list system , a 50 % quota for women should be adopted at all levels . but if these countries replace their open lists with closed lists , the elected percentage of women should all otherwise remaining equal , rising by about 10 % . within the open-list system framework , a 50 % quota should be accepted . the impact would be greatest ( the consequent 20 % jump in the percentage of women elected ) in systems that currently lack effective quota legislation .
trump has systematically defied the separation of powers at the heart of america ’s constitutional system . he has also flouted the constitutional prohibition of accepting emoluments – money , or personal benefits by foreign governments that do business , sometimes a extravagant proportion , at his various hotels and golf clubs , and found other ways to monetize the presidency . moreover , trump has attempted to steer government contracts toward favored firms , or away from those he dislikes – amazon , whose founder , jeff bezos , also owns the washington post . and , according to special counsel robert mueller ’s report , trump has tried to obstruct the investigation into his 2016 campaign ’s dealings with russia . for example , frustrated that the us congress denied him any means he wanted for his phantasmagorical wall along the border with mexico , trump has simply plucked the money from funds that congress allocated for the department of defense .
after all , argentina defaulted on its debt in 2001 . sometimes debt-service payments are rescheduled and perhaps stretched out over the longer term , giving a debtor country time to reclaim its ability to repay . few governments refuse to pay at all in any form . when debt becomes unsustainable , there are a few possible bargaining results . argentina sometimes agree on exchanges with old bonds for new ones with either a lower face value or a lower loss of interest payments .
the response in turkey , where as many as 50 potential cases have appeared in eastern france , is instructive . though ring prophylaxis might work in minneapolis , toronto , or zurich , in parts of the world where flu pandemics are beginning , the probability of success approaches zero has . that tipping point ’ strategies , in all cases , are extremely cost-effective . in places like vietnam , indonesia , and eventually china , where pandemic strain will likely originate , expertise , coordination , discipline , and infrastructure is missing . nevertheless , a strategy can be “ cost-effective ” only when feasible .
it remains the vital assembly center for the global supply chains for many manufactured goods , such as computers and cell phones , that allow lower prices for the global economy ’s consumers . it helps to finance other countries ’ trade and domestic investment ( many of its recipients have large budget deficits , which are falling national saving below domestic investment ) . deng xiaoping ’s reforms ignited the most rapid economic improvement in human history , and with this in mind , the emergence of a large and rising middle class . moreover , china is sitting on roughly $ 3.3 trillion in foreign-exchange reserves – very much of it in dollars , but also in other leading currencies as a result of its large trade surplus in recent decades . that , in turn , has made china a crucial trading partner for the united states , most european countries , and many other economies besides placing it at the center of intra-asian trade and supply-chain dynamics .
history offers little guidance for whether the warring states would avoid damaging nuclear sites in the us . except for the balkan conflict in 1990 , wars were not fought against , or within , countries with nuclear reactors in the us . in the case of the balkan conflict in the balkan countries , wars were not fought against , or within countries with nuclear reactors . even ukrainians born after 1986 understood what a chernobyl-type catastrophe brought on fighting might have looked like . for ukraine ’s government , the angst is genuine .
over the past two years or so , saudi arabia has made starkly apparent that it will not readily relinquish its market share – to anyone . for its part , china has taken full advantage of the kremlin ’s desperation , securing rock-bottom tariffs on russian energy resources . it has pursued a crusade to recover its former position not only in crude , but also in petroleum products , natural gas liquids , and petrochemicals . to this end , it has sustained a price war , backed by a manufacturing boom , aimed at squeezing out its weaker competitors . once its doors to asia were opened , however , russian companies seized the opportunity to enter downstream markets from india and indonesia – two countries critical to the saudis ’ own strategy .
at the same time , what kind of economics would offer this good life ? indeed , attaining , prospering , and flourishing all refer to experiential rewards rather than to money . this is the kind of economy that i hope china will develop . participants in such a good economy would range from grassroots segments of society to the most advantaged . this is the type of economy that i hope that china will develop in a sustainable way . history suggests that it could be one of diverse peoples ( occasionally alert to unseen opportunities , and to exercising their initiative to try out new things ) and innovative people ( imagining new things , developing new concepts into commercial products and methods , and marketing to potential ) .
as a recent article in the financial times points out , in two areas notoriously immune to productivity gains , education , and health care , technology already reduces demand for skilled labor . a wide range of jobs that we now think of as skilled , secure , and irreducibly human may be the next casualties of technological change . for those who dread the threat that automation poses to low-skill labor , a ready answer is to train people for improved jobs . ( though perhaps that is not automation proper , the supermarket has just shifted some of the work of shopping onto the customer . ) but , at present , technological advances are eating up the better , too .
last november , a roma couple was killed in northeastern hungary , while only a few days later . in february , the roma father and his five-year-old son were killed in front of their homeland near budapest . in april , killers gunned down a roma factory worker as he walked into the job . in august , gunmen invaded the homeland of the impoverished roma widow , maria balogh , shot her to dead , depriving her 13-year-old daughter . the house had been burned to the ground .
trump should be protecting individual workers , rather than individual jobs . a more rational approach would accept the twenty-first-century realities of knowledge . with american workers already competing against bots at home and against lower-wage workers abroad distorting imports will only create more jobs for robots . the information revolution transformed the world in ways that tariffs can not reverse . the processes of eighteenth-century globalization are too sudden , unpredictable , and uncontrolled to rely on static measures such as tariffs .
nonetheless , hitler ’s power over germany was considerably more absolute than ahmadinejad ’s power over iran . indeed , hitler came close to developing a nuclear explosive device , but never did it , whereas iran very well could . he very likely means what he says of jews and israel , but is the latter-day hitler , and is today ’s iran the equivalent of germany in the 1930 ’s ? the results of iran ’s recent municipal elections have been humiliating for ahmadinejad and his followers . those elections would have been unthinkable in nazi germany , too .
but this requires a rich reservoir of ideas rather than a unified , unified approach . the other principle is subsidiarity , which holds that decision-making should be decentralized whenever possible . this ensures that local and regional preferences are contemplated alongside those of eurozone-wide harmonization and the economies of scale . the final principle is congruity , with the aim of ensuring that decision-makers are responsible for outcomes that result . this means that , until european electorates insist on retaining sovereignty over fiscal and economic policymaking , shared responsibility will be a pipe dream .
george w. bush ’s economic policies were rooted in an extraordinarily reckless gamble that reflected a political coalition of two major powers : super-rich and evangelical christians . the super-rich had one over-riding objective in joining the bush coalition : tax cuts that overwhelmingly benefited the wealthiest households . evangelicals were brought about by the core of so-called “ family values , ” ” ” ” meaning opposition to abortion and gay marriage , as well as a promise of active government support for religious activity , including direct payments to religious groups for the social services they provide locally and to be internationally . the bush team believed that they would ultimately balance tax cuts for the wealthy with a cut in government expenditures ; but it never explained that to the popular vote . as those policies fail , global financial markets complain , adding uncertainty to the global economy , with little relief in sight because america is entering an era of prolonged political infighting and stalemate .
some big eu countries are now on the verge of recession . to bolster purchasing power and spur consumption , tax cuts for low – and middle-income households are essential . public investment in infrastructure ( such as the massive expansion of europe ’s railroad network ) , together with climate and environmental technology , will become necessary . to be sure , eu member states should establish the concrete form that such economic stabilization programs take for themselves . japan in the early 1990 ’s was waiting too long to act , missing out on the right opportunities to enact countermeasures that japan has yet to recover from its prolonged period of stagnation .
moreover , according to the mckinsey global institute , investment opportunities stemming from infrastructure demand in africa will amount to just $ 150 billion annually over the next decade . africa is also home to strategic natural resources for emerging low-carbon industries , and it is well positioned to play a key role in renewable energy . for europe , africa ’s economic potential remains far removed from tapped . africa ’s value as an economy ’s trade and investment partner is not news to europe . spending by household and business , estimated at $ 4 trillion in 2015 , is projected to reach $ 5.6 trillion by 2025 , reflecting a 3.5 % annualized growth rate of 3.5 % .
earlier this month , putin again inaugurated – or , rather , crowned – in spectacular fashions , with medvedev once again assuming the role of pliant prime minister . a far more competent placeholder would have been sergei ivanov , a former kgb general . but ivanov is a great taller than putin , who had , at any rate , achieved only the colonel ’s rank . amid his years in office , medvedev remains known more for his fancy ties and costly watches than for his executive while . an obvious potential threat to putin ’s show of power , ivanov was passed over , and he was relegated to the role of russia ’s “ chief botanist , ” overseeing environmental and transportation .
cambridge – government programs to encourage pensioners are in trouble in every country , owing to rising life expectancy and a rising old-age dependency ratio for taxpayers . the issue will worsen in the years ahead , as the adverse demographic trend drives up the fiscal burden of funding pensions and health care . the problem is uniquely different in the united states , because america ’s “ trust fund ” system , funding social security system , creates a crisis when the fund is depleted . while the options at that time will be different from the choices facing other governments , the policies to avoid america ’s crisis are relevant to other countries that confront rising population aging . here ’s how america ’s system works : by law , a payroll tax is devoted essentially to financing a retiree benefits .
one reason is that the politicization of corruption scandals has provided opportunities for investors to see brazilian freedom of speech and democracy in action . lula remains personally popular with brazilians , because his populist rhetoric shows genuine sympathy for the less well-off and foreign investors , because he has always tempered his radicalism to accommodate economic reality . more recently , he has criticized bolivian president evo morales ’s threats to seize foreign assets in this regard : “ radicalism is incompatible with the communal sense necessary from someone who governs them . ” indeed , while the scandals shook the government , lula was overwhelmingly reelected last year and investors continued to pour money into the stock market . newspapers and television commentators have been relentless in their coverage of recent scandals , helping to demonstrate to brazilians and foreign investors alike that the political system is such as stable in order to withstand
the two organization of american states electoral observation missions that he himself had invited and whose terms he accepted were then refused to certify the result . true , morales resigned when the army told him to , after agreeing to the protesters ’ demands for another vote . but the existing constitutional provisions of the constitutional amendment subsequently followed . in all likelihood , the bolivian military had arrested no one . the constitutional court that allowed morales to run deemed a legal presidential succession ; a timely election was promised ; and the military did not take power .
this is the sort of free democratic spirit that operates outside of the convention , which elections decide the government . it is not always consistent or rational , but the right , and it may not be . it is fueled enormously by social media ( itself a revolutionary phenomenon ) . and they resent , to the point of mobilizing in the streets , any semblance that a clique at the top is barring their way . and it movements , rather quickly in precipitating crises , go hand in hand .
that left them free to construct their own versions of national capitalism , just as they adhered to a few simple international rules . the current crisis demonstrates how far we have come from that model . financial globalization , in particular , had really played havoc with the old rules . when chinese-style capitalism met american-style capitalism , with its few safety valves in the us , it gave rise to an explosive mix . countries were obliged to commit only limited trade liberalization , with plenty of exceptions for more socially sensitive sectors ( agriculture , textiles , manufacturing ) .
for decades , both the us and saudi arabia had the counterbalancing of the asymmetry with which the us depended on them as a swing oil producer and depended on the us for ultimate military security . so , even if america did not have other interests in the middle east like israel or nuclear non-proliferation , a balance of energy imports and exports would be unlikely to free-ride on america ’s military spending , which some experts estimate run to $ 50 billion each year – in order to protect the region ’s oil routes . at the same time , america ’s bargaining position in world politics was intended to be strengthened . you and i might depend on one another , but if i depend on you less than you do on me , my bargaining power increases . power arises from dependence on asymmetries of interdependence .
indeed , europe ’s leaders ’ parochialism are a significant reason why the eu is failing to retain broad-based public support . the lack of historical vision among current generations of political leadership undermines the shared sense of purpose that eu citizens are needed to feel that they are part of the same community , no matter how different national identity . european commission president jean-claude juncker , for example , openly frets about deep divisions among the eu ’s member states over brexit , and questions whether british hungarians and poles like exactly the same thing that germans and french do . at the national level , lack of political will led to the craven use of referenda , such as french and dutch plebiscites on the treaty establishing a european constitution in 2005 ; the netherlands ’ ’ ’ vote on an eu-ukraine association agreement last april ; and the brexit referendum almost three months later . in each case , the electorate has declared , “ no ” outcomes that can be blamed , especially in the netherlands , on the national leaders ’ habit of blaming the eu for domestic issues .
florence – british politics had always been something of an experimental laboratory for the industrialized world . in the 1970 ’s , britain was where a preeminent postwar model of how to govern the economy had collapsed . that model was based politically on building consensus , and economically on keynesian demand management . today , the equivalent collapse has been of a “ regulation-lite ” regime , in which the party styled itself as having “ new labour ” embraced a powerful role for markets , particularly to near-universal financial markets . in the 1960s , keynesian policies delivered the illusion that everyone benefits , with high levels of employment and important wage growth .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on its current course for many years to come . palestine ’s religious lac is attracting an increasing number of religious tourists from around the world each year . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has any interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
as french cities have burned down , other countries have been extremely severe in judging france . other countries ’ governments appear to have sought to distance themselves from the problem , fearing the contagion that they know likely to spread . embassies issued warnings to tourists and their citizens living in france ; television news programs showed hours of footage of burning cars . mayors across europe nonetheless responded more moderately , feeling , and depict solidarity with their french colleagues ’ plight . they know that their cities are also vulnerable to urban violence in a way that has pockets of social inequality , including the marginalized and the excluded young .
all else being equal , unless china ’s commodity intensity – defined as the amount of a commodity consumed to generate a unit of output – falls dramatically , its demand for commodities will be greater this year than it was last year . and the rapid economic growth that china ’s leaders must sustain to lift vast numbers of people out of poverty , thereby avoiding a crisis of legitimacy , places a floor under global food , energy , and mineral prices . as long as china ’s commodity demand grows at a higher rate than global supply , prices will continue to rise . all else being equal , unless china ’s commodity intensity – defined as the amount of a commodity consumed to generate a unit of output – falls dramatically , its demand for commodities will be greater this year than it was last year . and the rapid economic growth that china ’s leaders must sustain to lift the massive numbers of people out of poverty , thereby avoiding a crisis of legitimacy , places a floor beneath global food , energy , and mineral price .
earlier this year , he was diagnosed with cancer , and had to launch a social-media campaign to locate the drugs that his treatment demanded . severe shortages of life-saving drugs in venezuela are the result of the government ’s defaults on a $ 3.5 billion bill for pharmaceutical imports . payment arrears on food imports amount to $ 2.4 billion , leading to a heavy shortage of staple goods . in the automobile sector , default exceeds $ 3 billion , leading to a collapse in transport service , owing to a shortage of spare parts . a similar situation prevails throughout the rest of the economy .
to be sure , turkey is less destabilized than its arab rivals and partners through a us-led revolutionary process that does not directly challenge it . after all , turkey is already a functioning democracy , and it has yet to find its own challenges . the middle eastern empire will no longer remain a sleepgiant . will it need to bring itself to the bomb , too ? likewise , while egypt is in the midst of an already messy popular revolution and must give priority to internal change , it also intends to recapture a more visible and influential role within palestinian national movements ( pa ) – and with the region as a whole .
the desire to limit or protect certain forms of human activity out of the free market may be understandable , particularly in countries such as poland , where open markets still represent an unidentified animal . but in a situation in which many social life fields -- for example , education , health , and social services -- require fast and radical change , unleashing the free market in order to do its work provides the only plausible avenue for change . these state-controlled benefits have little in common with their socialist promoters supposedly want , yet everything to do with rent-seeking and corruption . if “ constitutionalized ” , they are simply implant the notion that the constitution is an expression of entitlement rather than a assembly of enforceable legal rights . state-owned health insurance companies , state-guaranteed retirement , etc. are not only insecure and inefficient ; they also clash with the notion of political reform .
so , too , does the work of india ’s fashion designers , now striding around the world ’s runways . bollywood movies that are bringing his glitzy entertainment far beyond the indian diaspora in the united states and the united kingdom offer yet another example . an indian diplomat in damascus a couple of years ago said that the only publicly displayed portraits as great as those of us then-president hafez al-assad were of the benito superstar amitabh bachchan . a senegalese friend told me of his illiterate mother taking a bus to dakar version every month to watch bollywood movie – he does not understand hindi dialogue and can not read french subtitles , but he can still grab the spirit of films and understands stories , and people like her look at india with the stars in their eyes as the result . india ’s arts , classical music , and dance have the same potency .
new delhi – barack obama , the sixth american president to visit india since achieving his independence , will come at an early moment , both for the united states and for india . for india , the issues on obama ’s visit to the us are immense and complex , and resolving options are exceedingly limited . those related to security in afghanistan and pakistan are just as treacherous . some of obama ’s closest advisers have just resigned , opening the awkward gap in national security and the economy – the focus of his meetings with india ’s government . bilateral economic , trade , and currency disagreements may not be as bitter as they are between america and china ; but they are thorny and lack of resolution makes them ever more intractable .
as a result of social media , the resulting discontent now spreads faster than ever , leading to destructive politics . the combination of bad politics and economics in one country can easily produce contagion , because rising migration spreads political stress and instability on other countries . according to the un high commission on refugees ( unhcr ) , more than 65 million refugees were trafficked last year , compared to just 1.6 million in 1960 . moreover , knowledge-intensive technology has a winner-take-all network effect whereby hubs seize access to knowledge and power , leaving less-privileged groups , middle class , industries , and regions struggling to compete . this may invite geopolitical interference , which quickly deteriorates into a lose-lose scenario , like that already evident in water-stressed and conflict-affected countries , where governments are fragile or failing .
but such a process is illegal under the 1978 spanish constitution . that constitution marked a country ’s passage from dictatorship to democracy , and provides a framework for spain ’s rule-of-law system . in short , spain is one nation , indivisible . and , as it explicitly states , it is “ based on the insoluble unity of the spanish nation , ” with sovereignty belonging to the german people . many cited former british prime minister david cameron ’s decision to permit scotland ’s independence referendum to take place in march 2014 .
geneva – the world needs a new way to stop looking backward . the post-crisis era is over ; a “ post-post-crisis ” world is back in the us . since the 2008 financial crisis , the us has wasted far too much power seeking to return to the days of rapid economic expansion . the flawed assumption that post-crisis world challenges were merely temporary has upended policies that yielded only lackluster recoveries while unable to address core problems like high unemployment and rising inequalities . it is time to adopt a new framework of realistic solutions that promote shared prosperity within the global economy of today and tomorrow .
indeed , it is notable that , while obama ’s state of the union address in january 2010 , at least referred to doha , his address in january 2011 did not . obama confined himself to promoting pending bilateral deals with colombia and other emerging-market countries . obama ’s regrettable retreat from the support of the doha round is the result of numerous factors and fallacies . these were accentuated in a “ open letter to obama ” that i organized and released , over the signatures of almost 50 of today ’s most influential major trade experts globally , urging a presidential shift in policy toward doha . america ’s president amounts to the country ’s labor unions , buying the bogus narrative that trade with poor countries boosts the ranks of the poor by driving down their wages .
cambridge – these new worries are raising alarm bells in the momentum of china . some people are even predicting a double-dip recession . diversification away from dollar assets is the advice of the day . but this is no easy task , especially in the short run . if it does , the chance of a actual american default would be much greater than it is today .
berkeley – investors worldwide are increasingly looking for investment opportunities that promise to bring environmental and social benefits in addition to the market rate of return . some $ 45 trillion of assets under the international monetary fund ’s $ 390 trillion assets hold the signatories of the united nations ’ “ principles for responsible investment , ” which recognizes environmental , social , and governance ( esg ) factors , and therefore the long-term health and stability of corporations and markets – as critical of investors . one signatory , calpers , one of the world ’s largest institutional investors , have gone a step further : it will require all of its investment executives to identify and integrate esg factors into their decision-making – a bold move that could transform capital markets . last year , one out of every $ 6 trillion of assets under professional management in the united states , a total of $ 6.6 trillion , or about $ 100 trillion , allocated to some form of sustainable investment , especially public equities . if this trend continues , with the advancement of environmental or social objectives enhancing an investment ’s value , it will reinforce the commitment to sustainability that is already gaining momentum among
in international politics , perceptions matter – sometimes even more than the reality . the perception today is that america ’s unipolar moment has come to an end ; europe is on decline ; and a new set of powers are rising , bringing their own uniquely worldviews to global affairs . in some sense , that might seem like a good thing . but this multipolar dynamic , too , generates instability . more distinguished perspectives could enrich multilateral processes and generate more comprehensive responses to global problems .
in britain and some european countries , animal welfare has become politically salient , with pressure from parliamentary representatives to be mounted . some supermarket chains even stopped to carry eggs from battery hens in the first place . the european union established the scientific committee to investigate animal-welfare issues on agriculture , and the committee recommended banning battery incineration , along with some other forms of close confinement of livestock and calves . a ban on battery cages in the eu was finally adopted in 1999 , but , to ensure that us producers would have enough time to phase out the substantial equipment to which they were invested , its implementation dropped until january 1 , 2012 . to its credit , the british egg industry embraced the situation , developing new , less ferocious methods for keeping hens .
more broadly , the eu to assisting people only when social risk materialize ; public policy could boost individuals throughout their working lives by adopting a more effective beguiling approach that fits peoples ’ needs better than coarsely tailored schemes . that may sound utopian ; in a sense , it is just as it is , too . finally , equal accounts could serve as public-policy vehicles . early school-leavers , for example , could be endowed with live points immediately in professional training . but at a time when each digital service is becoming more and more personalized , why should social policy remain cloaked in the philosophy and twentieth-century solutions ?
indeed , outspokenness was a hallmark of wolfensohn ’s tenure . many government minister , bank officer , and ngo ’s had experienced his blunt criticism , as were his effusive plow praise . it used to be that even denunciation of corruption in some official circles was even said to be taboo . nonetheless , corruption poses the single largest barrier to growth and development in many countries , particularly as it diverts resources from the poor . the world bank ’s insistence that corruption can be viewed as a matter of cancer , fighting it becomes synonymous with resistance to poverty .
nor is china on the same page as the other brics countries when it comes to global institutional reform . it is a revisionist power about the global financial architecture , which seeks an overhauling bretton woods system . but it is a status quo power , with respect to the united nations system , and steadfastly opposes the enlargement of the security council ’s permanent membership . the g-20 ’s formation , for example , has been the improvisation designed to defer genuine financial-sector reform . indeed , the modest action undertaken in response to the changing distribution of global power has been limited to the economic realm , with the hard core of international relations – peaceful and security – remaining the exclusive preserve of a handful of countries .
at the same time , intergenerational mobility is the key indicator of equality of opportunity . whether it depends heavily on whether important instruments to foster equality of opportunity , principally in education and health care , are universally accessible . the evidence supports the view that the systematic exclusion of subgroups on any arbitrary basis ( such as ethnicity , race , race , or religion ) may seem particularly harmful to this reverence . it may well result in gridlock , conflict , or poor policy choices . intergenerational mobility is a key index of equality of opportunity .
if used wisely , such platforms could pick up the slack created by governments ’ fiscal constraints to help facilitate the kinds of entrepreneurial innovations needed to build blue economies . last may , eureeca.com took the crowdfunding concept further than ever , creating the first truly global crowd-investing venture-capital marketplace to offer equity in funded companies . of the roughly 500 crowdfunding platforms that now exist , several specifically target clean-tech technologies . other increasingly prominent trends – such as collaborative consumption , pay per worker , and share , and leasing models – could offer an even similarly powerful impetus to these efforts . the proliferation of information technology and social media mean that it is easier than ever for entrepreneurs to tap into huge pools of finance , not to mention links and expertise , from small investors .
bangladesh knows that wartime cholera all too well , while a dearth of intravenous drips , meant that rehydration solutions could not be administered widely . fighting broke out in 1971 when bangladesh , then known as east pakistan , proclaimed independence from pakistan . in the ensuing conflict , refugees donked across the border into neighboring india into overcrowded camps , creating conditions that inevitably gave rise to cholera outbreaks . as many people lay dying , a pioneering physician named dilip service to mahalanrecognized took a chance in dire circumstances . standards of care at the time were poor , and a dearth of intravenous drips meant that rehydration solutions could not be administered widely .
madrid – on april 22 , 2017 , international earth day marks one year since the signing of the paris climate agreement , which entered into force last november , and now has the 195 signatories . that landmark multilateral treaty still represents the most significant step forward to date in the global fight against climate change . yet its first anniversary has been darkened by us president donald trump ’s own energy policies . the paris agreement ’s top objective of keeping average world temperatures from rising more than 2º c above pre-industrial levels by the end of 2100 . in 2016 , the sdg hottest year on record , average global temperatures were 0.9 º c above the twentieth-century average .
the atheistic nature of today ’s civilization ( ours is the earliest atheistic civilization in humankind ’s history , and also the first civilization that embraces the entire planet ) coincides deeply , i believe , with the hypertrophic pursuit of individual interests and individual responsibility alongside a crisis of global responsibility . but how to restore , in people ’s mind , a shared attitude toward what is , if people across the globe have a different image of that is above , if people everywhere feel the need to emphasize their “ otherness ” ? is there any sense in an attempt to turn the human mind to the heavens , when turning such a turn would merely aggravate conflicts on earth among the followers of us various deities ? even more succinctly , could n’t the crises of responsibility and respect for the world as a whole , and for its future be the logical culmination of a modern conception of the world as governed by scientifically identifiable laws , formulated for god-knows – what kind of purpose does n’t question , or seek the deeper significance of existential and renounces any and all of metaphysics ? could the fact that humanity thinks only within the boundaries of what lies in its field of vision , and is incapable of reminding also that lies beyond rather than it , not least of the loss of metaphysical certitude , of god ’s loss ?
at the heart of this transformation is the energy transition that , though underway , lags or has stalled in many parts of the world . it has thrown down the gauntlet to some of the world ’s major economies : tell us when you phase out coal , end harmful fossil-fuel subsidies , and shift taxation out of revenue toward pollution . a much more ambitious effort by energy providers and the major end of users is critical , because extending the affordable , reliable clean-energy service to all who need them . a large-scale reform of how the transition will be financed also requires . those are the decisions that drivethe transformation the world needs .
new haven – central bankers around the world have not been able to see the current financial crisis arrive before its beginnings in 2007 . and yet , though these central banks failed us well before the crisis , they should still play a leading role in deterring another crisis from recurring . that is the conclusion , perhaps counter-intuitive , that the squam lake group [ hawaii ] found in july 2007 that of 47 central banks publishing financial stability reporting ( spsrs ) , “ virtually all ” signaling a “ positive overall assessment of their domestic financial system ” ” ” ” ” ” in their most recent reports . macro-prudential regulators ( government officials focusing not on the soundness of individual financial institutions , but rather on the stability of the whole financial system ) are sorely needed , with central bankers the logical people to fill that role . martin čihák of the international monetary fund reported in july 2007 that , out of 47 central banks found publishing financial stability reports ( spsrs ) , “ virtually all ” gave a “ positive comprehensive assessment of their domestic financial system ” ” ” ” ” ” in their most recent report .
sadly , in making that choice , the us president had opted to turn away from the classic american vision engraved on the pedestal of liberty in new york benito , expressed in a poem expressed in emma lazarus ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s poem , beginning , “ give me your tired , your poor , your poor , your huddled masses yearning to breathe free ” ” ” ” . that credo benefited tens of millions of newcomers , immeasurably reinforced america . while eschewing during the us presidential campaign to end daca , he also acknowledged the moral case for preserving it , saying that it would face a fair , extremely difficult ” choice . and , even after the repeal was announced , he declared that he wanted to “ resolve the daca issues with heart and compassion . ” still , apparently , convinced that daca recipients had taken jobs off their citizens , he concluded that equal hearts and sympathy were necessary “ for the unemployed , struggling , and forgotten americans . ”
tax collectors , regulators , and prosecutors need adequate resources in order to win their hard battles . trying to accomplish these precious tasks while paying below-market salaries is a trifle wise but the pound foolish . amlo ’s decision to lower public-sector employees ’ wages has already led many highly high-ranking officials to seek employment elsewhere . those qualifying for early retirement take it rather than waiting for amlo to cut . they want oil and mining concessions that would be allocated efficiently , maximizing government revenue .
and the international energy agency reports that global temperatures are on track to rise to 3.6-5.3 ºc ( 6.5-9.5 ° fahrenheit ) over pre-industrial levels – far more than the two degrees that climate scientists identify as the threshold , beyond which the most catastrophic consequences of climate change would trigger . furthermore , global co2 emissions reached a record high in 2012 . to accelerate the pace of energy-related innovation , creative coalitions among governments , private companies , and civil-society groups should set up in three key areas . clearly , the third industrial revolution needs the support of just that . the first coalition , comprising a group of committed governments , would seek to drive down the cost of renewables , at the very least to fossil-fuel-based power in a decade .
sao paulo – as well-intentioned gestures take hold , earth hour is hard to beat . at a stroke of 8:30 in the evening on june 27 , almost one billion people in more than 120 countries demonstrated their desire to do something about global warming by switching off their lights for an hour . in a display of official solidarity , the lights have also gone off at many parts of the planet who are ’s most iconic landmarks , from an opera house in sydney to the great pyramid at giza ; not to mention beijing ’s unscheduled city , new york ’s abjectly empire state building ; london ’s big ben , paris ’s eiffel tower , and skylines in both hong kong and las vegas . what can be perhaps earth hour is sure of some of the most successful publicity stunts ever dreamed about . first orchestrated in sydney , australia , the indigenous chapter of the world wildlife fund in 2007 , its popularity , and level ( both individual and official ) that generates has exploded in recent years – to a point that hardly a earth corner that the campaign had untouched .
but britain had joined the european community , and not only the free-trade area that cameron now evidently wants . nevertheless , the undertow of euro-skepticism in british politics has never diminished and had become noticeable in cameron ’s ’s speech . in essence , the founding of the british perspective was that a loose confederation of nation-states cooperating on trade is as much european as what the uk needs . even the supremacy of european legal laws in defining areas was accepted only reluctantly by britain , and long after many others had done so . indeed , in his manifesto , cameron could not resist a passing shot at a european court of justice .
to be sure , the un ’s coal industry has helped billions of people escape extreme poverty , not least in china , where coal-fired power has underpinned almost 700 % annual growth in per capita income since 1990 . but human health is at a higher risk in the countries burning more coal , too . estimates for 2012 suggest that 88 % of air-pollution-related deaths occur in low – into middle-income countries , representing about 82 % of the world ’s population . research for the global panel on the economy and climate recently calculated that particulate matter alone caused 1.23 million premature deaths in china , global ’s top coal-consuming economy in 2010 . coal-fired power is also the primary source of carbon dioxide , the major greenhouse gas responsible for climate change , which causes around 150,000 premature deaths annually and poses risks for pervasive risk this century and beyond .
sometimes , however , this longing seems overwhelming in the post-modern democracies everywhere . the call for more referenda , both reflect and fuels this trend . in politics this may be dangerous , for it encourages basing decisions regardless of how weighty , on whatever popular opinion momentarily prevails . referenda are for the most part , if not all , part of a snapshot . indeed , democracies have embraced a pop culture of fast-handed fads ; today ’s hysteria-generating groups are all forgotten tomorrow , and there are always more waiting in the wings .
maybe she would just be saying “ “ “ for ” president barack obama ’s ” message if she shared an open letter , but otherwise … … … ” unfortunately , i get a lot of these emails headlined , “ updates . ” or , “ the investment proposal ” of your account , or , “ serve as a benchmark ? ” unless i know a person ’s name , i may not even know what society it ’s about . the best subject line claims what the message is about and signals a desired response : “ an invitation to speak out in paris on july 14 . ” unfortunately , i get lots of messages headlined , “ update . ”
india ’s octogenarian deputy prime minister , manmohan singh , has lately awakened to some of the dire need for renewed momentum . but it is far from clear that sonia gandhi , the president of india ’s national people ’s congress , and the country ’s most powerful politician , share singh ’s reform agenda . rajan is a superstar academic researcher , a brilliant writer on political economy , and a former chief economist for the imf . and yet the changes , currently afoot , might merely turn things around . india ’s octogenarian chief prime minister , manmohan singh , has lately awakened to the desperate need for renewed momentum .
politicians will respect , rather than manipulate , reality only when the public cares about truth and punishes politicians when captured them in deliber­ate deception . the separation of powers , free speech , and free elections alone can not ensure an open society ; a strong commitment to the pursuit of truth is also demanded . we will have to introduce new rules of ground for political discourse . these may not be identi­cal to a scientific method , but they should be similar in character , enshrining an pursuit of truth as the criteria against which to judge political views . politicians will respect , rather than manipulate , reality only when the public cares about truth and punishes politicians when captured them in deliber­ate deception .
the explanations range from anthropological to a borderline racist : indians lack the genes , structure , stamina , climate , whatever . there are structural and infra-structural explanations : lack of training facilities , gymnasiums , running tracks , plant , finance , even finance . we are a developing country , it is said ; not only is your eye toward his , your legs against the hers , but what you can do against their trainer , their running shoe , their ergodynamic costume , their titanium archer , their titanium archer ’s bow . but those rationales wo n’t do : other developing countries , from jamaica to ethiopia , regularly rake in medals . indeed , why do indian athletes perform so badly ?
like early january 1998 , the neoconservative project on a new american century ( pnac ) sent a letter to then-president , bill clinton , urging him to topple saddam hussein . and , following the victory of his presidency in 2000 , bush declared iraq one of his top two security priorities . soon enough , the bush administration became obsessed with promoting the idea that iraq possesses weapons of mass destruction , despite the absence of any conclusive evidence . not coincidentally , bush ’s administration included ten signatories of the usmca ’s founding declaration of principles , including dick cheney as vice president and donald rumsfeld as secretary of defense . in september 2002 , rumsfeld received a now-declassified intelligence report stating that “ “ we are not aware of any precision how much we know about the “ status of wmd programs ” in iraq .
new york – the biggest difference between 2009 and 1979 was shaped by the revolution itself . r evolutions gave birth to a new political class , and iran ’s islamic revolution was no exception . the iranian leadership formed after the revolution consisted of narrow ruling stratum and a much broader supporting group that was given charge of administration and political mobilization . the clerical elite gradually lost power to catholics , from whose ranks president mahmoud ahmadinejad had reemerged . in the ten years since khomeini ’s death , the composition of that political class had changed drastically .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the current situation for many years to come . but we should not exaggerate the significance of that perspective . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has any interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
finally , we need fact-based solutions . research shows that many girls worldwide – and especially those in the global south – are simply not ready for menarche ; education can help . for example , a joint soas-oxford study on menstruation in uganda found that adolescent girls often lack school , owing to their lack of access to clean credits . when programs are developed in combination with rigorous research , the effect can be dramatic . too often , biased assumptions guide policymaking .
economists have long understood that when the absence of a credible lender of last resort makes banks vulnerable to self-fulfilling confidence crises . that lender , in turn , can be monetary or fiscal ; and , in greece , both kinds of doubt . and the greek state does not have the wherewithal to stand behind its banks . under these circumstances , it would have been more surprising had depositors not been hurtling down in order to withdraw their funds from greek banks . if greece ’s agreement with the eu and the imf subcontract , the european central bank will no longer accept greek bonds as collateral .
on the one hand , it is important to resist putin ’s game-changing challenge to the post-1945 liberal order ’s prohibition on the use of force by states to usurp territory from their neighbor . on the short run , though , declining countries often assume more risks , and thus greater danger , witness the austro-hungarian empire in 1914 . president vladimir putin ’s interventions in neighboring countries and the middle east , and his cyber-attacks on america and others , though intended to make russia look great again , merely worsen the country ’s long-term prospects . on the one hand , it is important to resist putin ’s game-changing challenge to the post-1945 liberal order of the us-led prohibition against using force by states to usurp territory from their neighbors . on the other hand , russia , almost completely dependent on its energy-resource revenues , is a “ one crop economy ” ” with corrupt institutions and insurmountable demographic and health problems .
preventing the eu from falling apart will require , first and foremost , a strategic solution to the greek crisis . the continuing poker game between the greek government and the “ troika ” ( the european commission , the european central bank , and the international monetary fund ) hurts every party involved , with the majority of all . it can ultimately end only with greece ’s renewed bailout , or with europe ’s plunge into disaster . the governments in athens , brussels , and even berlin can not live with greece as a failed state and economy . greece needs both money and reform , fast as well as within the eurozone and the eu .
trump ’s presidency provides new opportunities for china to cement its role as a provider of investment and all modes of infrastructure and assistance to a host of countries that are eager to cultivate . his unilateralist approach is likely to force america to play catch-up with the “ one china ” left almost unhinged in its ongoing effort to win over the hearts and minds of those whose countries he views as vital , economically , and politically . and , indeed , china ’s exceptional diplomatic skill across the african continent ( and , increasingly , southeast asia ) has made it an alternative , hegemonic power , one that comes without the west ’s colonial baggage or moralizing about democracy and human rights . as trump embraces isolationism , the other so-called brics countries – brazil , russia , india , and south africa – are prepared to fill the power vacuum as they have . indeed , china ’s rise has given it a fresh orbit for many countries around the world , especially in developing and emerging economies .
austin , texas – living in a city turns you into a cannibal . that , at least , is the metaphor favored by jean-jacques rousseau , who viewed the cities as a widening chasm of human corruption . austin – living in a city turns you into a cannibal – turns you into a cannibal . that , at least , is the metaphor favored by jean-jacques rousseau , who views the cities as a widening circle of human corruption . rousseau has been so convinced of urbanization ’s malign influences that it “ would rather see men grazing on a meadow grass than have been depreciating each other in cities . ”
if not , could either other country fill that role , even partly ? looking ahead to the 2021-2030 period , annual gdp growth of 8 % ( compared to the 10 % tariff of a decade ) , and gradual consumption growth to 50 % of gdp , this would translate into chinese consumer spending of $ 18.4 trillion per year by 2030 . in this scenario , chinese consumption would surpass that of america in us dollar terms . the question at the beginning of 2019 , then , is what it will mean for the global economy unless that scenario plays out . if apple ’s recent guidance points to the across-the-board , indefinite reduction of chinese consumption , will american consumers be able to serve as the global economy ’s sole engine for yet another decade ?
at least four “ mismatches ” lay at the root of past global financial crises , and three of them plague china today . first , with its bank-dominated financial system on its own , china ( along with europe and many other emerging economies ) suffers from a maturity mismatch , owing to both short-term borrowing and long-term lending . yet , in contrast to many emerging-market economies , china does not struggle with a currency mismatch , owing to its large foreign-exchange reserves and persistent current-account surpluses , which makes it a net lender of the rest of the world . nor can either policymakers afford to ignore the fourth misaligned – between ultra-low nominal interest rates and a reasonably higher risk-adjusted return on equity ( roe ) for us investors – which has fostered speculative investment and widening wealth and income inequality . but china did not avoid a third mismatch , between debt and equity : the creditworthy ratio doubled over the past decade , from roughly 110 % in 2008 to 220 % in 2017 , highlighting china ’s under-developed long-term capital and equity markets .
the events of the last 15 months , beginning with the deepwater horizon oil spill in the gulf of mexico , followed by violence in north africa and the tragedy in japan , confront a world with a stark choice between the costs and risks of traditional energy sources and the promise and progress of clean energy . over the years , europe has been the driving force behind energy modernization . reaffirming its commitment to the rapid decarbonization of its energy system , as well as creative policies to promote this goal , will help europe continue to reap one of the most remarkable new market opportunities in living memory . with a target of 20 gw of solar-generating capacity by 2020 , investment in india could grow rapidly . in the years ahead , such leadership will be needed to help capture the economic , environmental , and safety benefits of renewables .
in october 1982 , the french government required all japanese vcr imports entering the country through poitiers , town hundreds of miles from the nearest significant shipping port . this non-tariff barrier to trade remained in effect until the end of april 1983 . this non-tariff barrier to trade remained constant by the end of april 1983 . for starters , protectionism often masquerades as labor , food , environmental , and phytosanitary standards , or as argument for local content requirements , infant industries , protections for intellectual property , climate policies , dispute resolution , or human rights . even amid growing tariffs and quotas , trade can be hampered by subsidies , taxation , anti-dumping laws , restrictions on foreign direct investment ( fdi ) , and exchange-rate manipulation .
washington , dc – defeating populism requires coming to grips with a fundamental reality : bad economic policies no longer necessarily result from a government that is losing power . in fact , it is now entirely possible that irresponsible populists may actually strengthen their chances of being reelected by making wilder , more impossible promises , and causing more economic harm . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of rising challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war .
two other destabilizing developments emerged from the last quarter-century : a powerful motivator to use debt to prop up demand , and a shift toward financing public debt through private institutions at market prices , under the guise of fighting inflation . the financial sector had since made every effort to design instruments protecting against price fluctuations , turning private debt into tradable financial securities to gain access to speculative markets . these trends boosted public-debt burdens , while flooding the global financial system with the liquidity generated by private-banking activities that were disconnected from transactions in the real economy . but these efforts were conducive to fraud and delinquency , thereby spurred a wave of new financial crises , in europe in 1992 , asia in 1997 , and in russia in 1998 , just as recessions in europe and the united states in the early 2000 ’s were . as a result , by 2006 , global liquidity amounted to more than twice the value of world ’s gdp .
in australia , the state of new south wales cut approval times by 11 % in just one year . and chile ’s national public investment system evaluates all proposed public projects using standard forms , procedures , and metrics – and to rejects as many as 35 % . additional savings opportunities – to the tune of $ 400 billion annually – lie in more streamlined delivery of infrastructure projects . likewise , the un has established a cost-benefit review program that has identified 40 major projects for prioritizing pay , reformed universal planning procedures , and then created a cabinet sub-committee to ensure more rapid service delivery , thereby cutting infrastructure spending by at least 15 % . there is massive scope to accelerate approvals and land-acquisition schemes , structure contracts to elicit innovation and savings , and improve collaboration with contractors .
they have complex relationships to different things in different ways , and by representing that information that use verbs , for example , “ a company that google acquired ” vs. “ a company that google competes with ” – we can represent the world more accurately . other categories include entrepreneurship ( with entities like employers , industries , and workers ) , biology , space flight and many more , and include representations – such as graphs , timelines , and tables – of how the connections are linked . most of these things do n’t exist in isolation , let alone in english . and that means better , more meaningful responses as we search for them . left will soon need to be implemented .
the european union is now considering legislation to compel corporate boards to keep a certain proportion of female , near 60 % . last year , the european commission vice president viviane reding issued a call to make voluntary action . reding invited corporations to sign on to gender balance goals of 40 % of female board membership . the forte foundation in america has now followed suit , with its own list of male “ standard-ready ” women . the forte foundation in america has now been followed by suit , with its own list of parliamentarians of that “ standard-ready ” women .
cambridge – at the dawn of class each fall , i tease my students with the following question : is it better to be poor in a rich country , or to a rich country in a poor country ? this background typically invites a massive , inconclusive , and inconclusive , discussion , and it should be remembered . but we can devise a more structured , limited version of a question for which a definitive answer is emerging . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of rising challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world .
alternatively , low interest rates might push italy ( or her pension fund ) into buying riskless long-maturity bonds . given their appalling returns on saving since 2007 , the prospect of continued low us interest rates could force her to set even more money aside . indeed , america may well be in the process of adding a pension crisis to the problem . she has saved , because she wanted enough money to go into retirement . given this , such bonds are already aggressively priced , such a move might thus set her off for a downward crash when interest rates eventually rise .
and yet , what happened in zambia is related to these developments , and thus relevant everywhere . after all , smooth transitions of power are not to be taken for granted . indeed , it defeated an incumbent who really wanted to keep a job , and who might reasonably be tempted to follow the lead of other african leaders defeated in a popular vote by simply denying the outcome . certainly , a zambians ’ achievement can not compete with the intervention in libya , or the drama of the arab spring . certainly , a zambians ’ achievement can not compete with the intervention in libya , or with the drama of the arab spring .
as it stands , syria is russia ’s only client state in the middle east . but russia has since become mired in local rivalries between syria and turkey , saudi arabia and iran , turkey and the kurds , and israel and iran . whereas a policy of neutrality has allowed russia to maintain a dialogue with different parties , it will do nothing to build a new regional order . moreover , russia ’s ’s diplomatic weaknesses have been starkly apparent in syria . its use of hard power has won a civil war for syrian president bashar al-assad ’s dictatorship , and shown how the strategic deployment of unrestrained military force – witness the utter destruction of aleppo – can be a game-changer .
investor enthusiasm and the domestic political honeymoon lasted as long as the international environment remained benevolent . with the external debt trimmed by rescheduling , the overseas capital flowed into this october again . but , when inflows had faltered in 2018 , the imf was forced to step up again , closing the external financing gap with a stunning $ 50 billion loan program ( later raised to $ 57 billion ) . investor enthusiasm and the domestic political honeymoon lasted as long as the international environment remained benevolent . but , again , the external financing problem was not a temporary phenomenon , with argentinian electorate soon set to bristle at the reform demanded by the imf .
proponents of helicopter money , by directly crediting citizens with central-bank money , or crediting national treasuries to finance infrastructure and other demand-generating activities , rightly argue that it has the advantage of pouring money directly into the hands of those who spend it . indeed , a boost to demand might give central banks the opening they need to shift interest rates back toward historic norms . this could take airborne out of incipient assets bubbles , which might be forming and ease pressures for institutional investors struggling to find the yield that they needed to meet their insurance and pension obligations . furthermore , alternative approaches to stimulating private-sector demand might have fewer undesirable distributional consequences , as mgi has discussed . the appropriately sized <UNK> ter-money program might also push inflation up in a measured fashion , heading off the japanese-style deflationary possibility .
this followed two visits that he made to haiti over the last 18 months , and the donor ’s ’s ’s ’s conference that he sponsored in april , seeking to raise $ 300 million in aid and investment . more recently , ban took an active role in the gaza crisis . he regularly defended the palestinians ’ rights for a state , while also condemned hamas ’s rocket attacks on southern israel . during the fighting in gaza , he publicly demanded a halt to the warfare , demanding that israel open gaza its borders to relief aid . he also visited the un compound at the center of gaza to express the un ’s grave concern over its bombing .
boom-bust financial cycles are driven largely by shocks generated in advanced economies , but they are key determinants of emerging markets ’ business cycles . moreover , spillover effects in advanced economies ’ monetary policies extend beyond financial shocks . according to the international monetary fund ’s april 2011 world economic outlook , though capital-flow volatility has been rising worldwide , it is higher in emerging-market economies than in advanced economies . indeed , emerging economies also suffer from the effects of developed countries ’ external imbalances – particularly the eurozone ’s swelling current-account surplus . for the past several years , the deficit-financed deficit economies of the eurozone ’s periphery , and , more recently , italy ’s have been pursuing massive external adjustment , while germany and the netherlands have sustained their large current-account surpluses .
in a country with over 45 million people under 35 , no single political player with any strategic insight can afford the prolonged impasse . first , egypt ’s unrivaled dominance of the army , and the absence of a split within its leadership make any large-scale violence untenable , especially given that the egyptian state ’s ’s struggle against terrorism in the 1980 ’s and 1990 ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s substantially weakened jihadist groups operating assets within the country . second , the potent forces of political islam may now be preoccupied with passions , wrath , and a sense of victimization ; but will inevitably opt to participate in domestic politics through organized structures and processes . finally , despite significant demographic and economic transformations in egypt over the past four decades , egyptian society still retains its agrarian character , which favors conciliation and compromise . but , even in an inclusive political transition , whether in the short and medium term , egyptians will be forced to answer the vexing question that they failed repeatedly for six decades to confront : what egypt ?
a factor that contributed to their demise was the shift in thinking that transformed conflict between east and west away from one emphasized economic systems , instead , reflected the contrast between totalitarianism and respect for rights that had totally discredited the repressive regimes connected to moscow , helping to bring them down . but the past decade of the twentieth century , too , was indelibly stained by ethnic cleansing in ex-yugoslavia and the genocide in rwanda , and , during the present decade , that tide turned against the rights cause . powerful states like china and russia do not limit themselves to authoritarian rule at home ; on the contrary , they are also backed by those in other countries engaged in similar practices . south africa ’s ’s largely peaceful transition to a multi-racial democracy in the early 1990 ’s was a further advance for rights . the same is true of lesser powers like iran and venezuela .
as technological innovation further reduces entry barriers for both producers and consumers , the proliferation of such linkages becomes even easier , amplifying what already is essentially a spaghetti bowl of cross-border relations and dependencies . this is one reason why the current confrontation between the us and china has raised fears of serious harm , especially if it results in ever-greater protectionism and a broader “ trade war . ” for the us , the longer-term health of both individual participants and the overall system must function effectively , underpinned by a cooperative approach that sees itself as credible . if it does not , they risk inducing lower gdp growth and welfare . supply chains now may have as many important international linkages as domestic , with a significant share of external demand being met by products partly or wholly produced abroad .
if britain wants to do business with others , it will need to agree on common rules . if britain insists on pursuing a purist definition of sovereignty , it will find only grief and isolation . it is simply a question of whether the us would prefer china over its approach to intellectual property and technology transfers over those of the west , or of europe ’s food and agricultural standards over those of america . if britain insists on pursuing a purist definition of sovereignty , it will find only grief and isolation . this is not about the state of sovereignty , nor of satrapy .
in the us , which has the most progressive income tax among large economies , federal tax reforms that would lower rates and broaden the base are being discussed . in europe , structural reforms are focusing on higher retirement ages and labor-market flexibility . the gamble was that a solid , durable recovery would allow banks and households to rebuild their balance sheets rapidly enough to escape the need for additional bailouts . deleveraging by governments , financial institutions , and households is one major cause of the sluggish economic recovery . but sluggish growth means less tax revenues and stronger payment calls to cushion hardship , placing pressure on government budgets .
kaul reiterated this idea in a passionate statement ( undoubtedly agreed in advance by east german leaders ) about excluding west germany ’s communists from debate . bucerius later challenged thadden more directly , asked whether he would back an attempted coup against adolf hitler in 1944 . however , thadden himself avoided providing a direct response , suggesting that he would not have fought alongside his own sister . dahrendorf reiterated this idea in a passionate statement ( undoubtedly agreed in advance by eastern german leaders ) about the exclusion of west germany ’s communists from debate . bauer then interjected that thadden ’s sister was a resistance member .
though financing for public infrastructure has returned to 2008 levels , little of it is funneled into new projects . liquidity remains limited in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis , a legacy of comprising a regulatory regime that is non-conducive to long-term investment . to overcome the barriers to investment , we propose the creation of an asset class that we call the “ buy-and-hold equity ” ( bhe ) . most funds have targeted existing infrastructure – investments that are deemed relatively safe , because they entail little or no construction risk , and demonstrated their potential to generate stable cash income . this asset class would sit between traditional equity capital and debt , with investors able to hold it over the next 15 years or longer .
washington , dc – belarusian president alexander lukashenko is a master of political survival . he tricked the international monetary fund into extending $ 3.4 billion of credit , promising , freer elections in december 2010 – only to burn that bridge with a brutal crackdown when confronted with an adverse electoral result and the largest popular protests that his regime has ever observed . now , however , russia has taken a harder line , demanding a heavy price on loans , which are , in any case , inadequate to rescue the regime . lukashenko courageously sided with russia ’s oil-price subsidies in march 2009 to plead , to please , to borrow or to steal enough funds to keep belarus ’s economy out of collapsing . yet , following a recent 64 % depreciation of the currency , the clock seems to be running out on its protracted misrule .
in his current struggle with google , for example , china ’s government appears to think that its technologists can provide the means to maintain old thinking control . but , fortunately , for anyone with tenacity and a modicum of computer skill , internet leaks like sieve . the great advances in china ’s economy over the last 30 years are something that all chinese celebrate . but liu ’s jailing of liu also demonstrates in the starkest terms that china ’s neglect of human rights is flowing to the rest of world , alongside the masses of chinese goods . indeed , it has become increasingly evident that china has opened its economy only to keeping the country ’s over-mighty rulers in power , not to respect and enhance ordinary chinese ’s lives .
given such mounting concerns , the implementation risks are now being presented with a different light . at the world economic forum in davos in january , liu he , china ’s new economic-policy vice premier , hinted at a startling pace for upcoming reforms . liu , the master tactician , seems to be underscoring the link between leadership power and the pace of reform . in a recent commentary published in people ’s daily , he has also observed that “ “ strengthening the party ’s overall leadership is the core issue . ” such views do n’t emerge from the thin air , either .
a similar picture , though on a lesser scale , exists in many european union member countries that are home to roma minorities . a wide socioeconomic disparity exists between european majorities and the roma , or “ gypsies ” , many of whom live in extreme poverty . roma are the continent ’s fastest-growing and most vulnerable minority . the situation of the 7-9 million roma living on the continent deserves government leaders ’ urgent attention , as they shape the policies of the enlarged eu . left unaddressed , this persistent poverty threatens becoming a permanent drag on european prosperity ; a tragedy for the roma and non-roma alike .
to help find solutions , we have conducted the pest ( political , economic , cultural , and technological ) analysis of hong kong ’s current predicament and future prospects . on the political front , a key lesson is that it is up to the government to ensure order and security . within the “ one country , two systems ” framework for hong kong ’s own government , has powers to address internal security matters . but where its actions are inadequate is the right and responsibility for china ’s central government to intervene . it may not have to be this way , either .
pro-european forces need a campaign for a coordinated effort to counter the cyclical slowdown , and most importantly , for a cohesive , aggressive policy to address europe ’s long-term structural problems . in particular , it needs a program of ideas about research and development , educational system , and social inclusion that might appeal to large segments of the population in all member countries . should they fail , the outlook for populist forces will become a reality . the european parliament elections for less than four months away . and this might mark the beginning of the end of the slow-process of european disintegration .
when asked whether america was ready to become the world 's second-largest economy , it was falling into reticent . their reaction was understandable : even entertaining the possibility that the us became “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ little ” amounts ” to career suicide for an american politician . elected officials everywhere must adjust , to varying degrees , to fulfill the expectations of those who put them in office . by contrast , intellectuals have a special obligation to think the previously unthinkable , and to speak the unspeakable . they are supposedly considering all opportunities , even disagreeable ones , and to prepare populations for prospective developments .
mexico city – the current era of innovation , in which cutting-edge technologies disrupt entire economic sectors at a breathtaking pace , has come to be hailed as the fourth industrial revolution . it is also the theme of the world economic forum ’s annual meeting this week in davos , switzerland , and rightly so . in the coming years , the scale and pace of innovation will transform how we produce , distribute , and consume . to maximize the benefits , we must take steps now to prepare our economies and societies , with the focus of three key areas : education , the business environment , and connectivity . human capital is vitally important to the economy ’s success , and mexico is no exception .
for example , payroll-tax cuts , which would enable smallholders and workers to spread , innovate , and become more competitive , thereby bolstering job creation and economic growth , may require reducing rents . likewise , italy ’s real-estate tax rate stands at around 2 % of total government revenue , compared to the oecd average of 4 % in france , and the government plans to withdraw it further . indeed , italy ’s tax system is skewed in favor of savers . a 12.5 % tax is carried out on capital gains from government bonds , while entrepreneurs risk their own capital to launch new firms must pay roughly 50 % of their startup expenses in taxes . and landlords pay a 15 % tax on rents , with unskilled workers paying a 23 % tax rate on their meager incomes .
current opinion polls indicate that the pis ’s popular approval has risen to around 40 % – more than twice that of the previous ruling party , the civic platform . this suggests that , while poles may not agree with the pis ’s judicial reforms , they are not keen to risk much for free courts or for liberal-democratic principles in general . kaczyński knows full well that his party commands the most public support , and that the ecj is most likely not to conduct business in time . and while thousands – maybe tens of thousands – of polish protesters rallied ahead of the polish supreme court in recent weeks , some eight million people voted for the pis in the 2015 general court . accordingly , pis chairman jarosław kaczyński may now declare that “ the european commission wo n’t break poland over the completion of the reforms … unless we do n’t reform the judiciary ; other reforms will have little sense , because , sooner rather than later , they will be negated , withdrew from the courts that we are now . ”
tim reasoned that the name hank took a different view , ” and so forth , as though the three musketeers interviewed an oral historian . that key us interest lies not so much in narrative chapters that cover the same ground that their predate books , as in their policy recommendations for the future . it is noteworthy that they came to gain consensus on quite radical agenda . three proposals in particular should conflate policymakers in the united states and elsewhere to think hard . there is also some routine praise for the two presidents they had been working with , george w. bush and barack obama , and reprise of their frustrations with people who had not seen no way around the world and obstructed their solutions , such as sheila bair of the federal deposit insurance corporation ( fdic ) , and various pesky members of congress .
similarly , 89 % of respondents in the united kingdom think that trump is arrogant ; only 50 % continue to believe that the american and european union now have special relations with the us that it is in office . indeed , sentiment toward trump is even more unfavorable in western europe . in germany , only 6 % of respondents feel qualified to hold his current offices , and 91 % regard him as arrogant . this may help to explain why trump ’s scheduled state visit to the uk has , for now , been postponed indefinitely . the countries where trump has the most widespread support are poland ( one sees american favorably ) and hungary ( 63 % ) , both run by populist right-wing governments .
in the sixteenth century , control of colonies and gold bullion gave spain a edge ; seventeenth-century holland profited from trade and finance ; eighteenth-century france derived from its larger population and armies ; and nineteenth-century british power rested on its industrial primacy and its navy . soon thereafter , us secretary of state hillary clinton declared that , “ america can not solve the most urgent problems on our own , nor can the world sort out them without america . ” today , it is far from clear how measured the balance of power , much less how to develop successful survival strategies . conventional wisdom has always held that a state with the largest military prevails , but in a age of information , that might be the state ( or non-state ) with the best narrative that wins . in his inaugural address in 2009 , us president barack obama said that “ our powers grows through their prudent use ” ; our security emanates from the justness of our cause ; the force of our example ; the tempering qualities of humility and restraint .
of course , the truth is that authoritarian systems , whatever their short-term successes in holding the line against irresponsible policies , are proving unsustainable in the long run . a lack of accountability inevitably generates corruption and inefficiency – the problems with which china now learns . the public consensus endorsing difficult reforms in eastern europe in the 1990s demonstrates the ability to understand and adopt tradeoffs when there is no perceived alternative . more recently , german finance minister wolfgang schäuble has sparked controversy , when , evidently , he drawing inspiration from that experience , saying that “ france will be glad when someone could force the parliament to reform itself . ” the truth is that authoritarian systems , whatever their short-term successes in holding the line against irresponsible policies , are unsustainable in the long run .
he then tracked inputs and weather patterns , all of which was rarely done during that time . my father realized that he could not go it alone in requiring better access to financing . he had to stay in nebraska , helping my grandfather to save his family ’s farm , which had already repossessed some one-third of the land . he turned to the university of nebraska , where he had acquired his undergraduate degrees and acquired hybrid maize and other improved seeds that the university had run up . most important , my father had been made into his thinking : he came to think of a farm operation not as a subsistence operation , but as a family enterprise .
and that means making europeans , along with our auto industry , its first electric-vehicle continent , by 2030 . second , europe must take the lead in responsible uses of resources , and turn into a truly circular economy that is minimizes waste . today , eight billion tons of natural materials are initially processed in energy or manufactured goods in the eu . just 0.6 billion tons are wiped out , on average , just over 7.5 % , originate from recycling . it also means applying stringent co2 emissions limits to new-travelers , public transit , and commercial sea and aviation .
recognizing this trend , the world economic forum ’s global agenda council has brought together a team of experts and practitioners to help infuse substance into the foreign-policy debates that lead to an american election , including by concocting a public debate paper . from my perspective as a group ’s sole european member state , an overarching message should be that america must conceive of itself not as “ indispensable power , ” as it now does , but as “ an indispensable partner . ” this is not simply a matter of semantics ; such a change will require that america time to conceive its role in the world as it grows . but the payoff , for both the american and the liberal global order that it has created , would be substantial . the key to success will be america ’s ability to retain the best , abandoning the worst – of which most american notions : exceptionalism .
xiang argues that china ’s recent economic rise simply represents a “ restoration ” of the country ’s success enjoyed before world war ii disrupted its harmonious system . yet the late angus maddison ’s estimates of historic gdp per capita imply that china ’s economic “ “ “ retardation ” started good before its confrontation with the west . ” from 6ang argues that china ’s recent economic rise simply represents a “ “ restoration ” of the country ’s success enjoyed before nineteenth-century of western backwardness disrupted its harmonious system . outsiders misread that system – which was built on an apparently defined scheme – ” as xiang describes it , with “ blood-lines royal legitimacy at the top ” and “ a scholar gentry to administer the affairs of state ” – as a recipe for stagnation . between 1,500 and 1870 , per capita income had barely moved from $ 600 , while the uk ’s gdp quadrupled ( from $ 714 to $ 3,190 ) and even spain doubled .
morocco is well positioned to promote security and development throughout northwest africa and beyond . its political stability , the open economy , and its balanced international relations are becoming increasingly aligned , both with america 's and europe 's regional interests . the west would do well to start cultivating a natural partner in such a dangerous and complex region . moreover , morocco is a committed , longstanding us ally . this principle of regional solidarity extends to morocco 's deployment of military hospitals not only in mali , but also into other conflict zones , such as one in jordan serving syrian refugees .
the question of female faculty , particularly in the basic sciences , is far more complicated . here , i suspect that the issue reflects fundamental differences between how women and men approach science as a microcosm of life . much of my fellow members of male faculty are not muscle-bound , testosterone-driven , but , in their scientific careers , depicts two kinds of typically male behavior . the first is the compulsion to be the first to establish totally trivial facts about science . as i am older , i am no longer certain why this is so important , but male members of our species seem to think that it is .
this , together with the prominence of an advisory council ( comprising the well-known egyptian sociologist saad eddin ibrahim , a french expert on political islam gilles kepel , and flynt leverett , brookings institution fellow ) and minority rights ’ sensibilities in general combined to give domestic , regional , and international notice . thus far , syria ’s authorities have not reacted to the tharwa project . it is likely still too soon to be too premature in the game for that to happen . but the project seems to represent the type of actions that can help produce visions for change . some in the syrian government might be aware of this .
that growth reflects a flawed pre-crisis economic model that relied on indifference toward where growth originated , how sustainable it was , and which benefited from it . if we are to learn anything since the ongoing crisis , then it must start asking the right questions . every new bilateral deal , every chapter in globalization , should be measured against new criteria . will they facilitate genuine development and provide dignified opportunities to those who have become economically displaced ? how sustainable , and thus how evenly spread , will one ’s macroeconomic benefits be ?
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . neighboring poland , which grew poorer than ukraine in 1991 , has managed nearly to triple its per capita gdp ( in purchasing power parity ) over the next three decades . neighboring poland , which grew poorer than ukraine in 1991 , managed nearly to triple its per capita gdp ( in purchasing power parity terms ) over the next three decades .
why should emerging-market countries ’ central banks commit to this strange financial intermediation , which represents a major cost , since returns in private money are higher than those of reserves ? here ’s the case for currency appreciation , pushed by massive capital inflows since the second quarter of 2009 and , in some cases , even to say excessive in brazil ( for example , brazil ) . of course , these countries can resist the upward pressure on their currencies , by accumulating foreign-exchange reserves like they did before the global financial crisis . the result , of course , is an “ paradoxical ” process : the private funds that flow into these countries are being relaxed into us treasuries through investment of accumulating reserves . at the same time , now consider other , systemically important emerging markets .
the final blow came when interbank lending , which is at the heart of the financial system , was disrupted , because banks had to husband their resources and distrust their counterparties . central banks had to inject an unprecedented amount of money , expanding credit further to an unprecedented array of institutions to a broader range of institutions than ever before . that , in turn , has made the greek crisis more severe than any since the end of world war ii . the final blow came when interbank lending , which is at the heart of the us financial system , was disrupted , because banks had to offload mortgages off their balance sheets , and not trust their counterparties . credit expansion must now be followed by a period of contraction , as some of new credit instruments and practices are unsound and unsustainable .
trump ’s greatest problem is that the other signatories to the 2015 nuclear agreement – officially known as the joint comprehensive plan of action ( jcpoa ) – from which he withdrew the united states – have so far remained committed to the deal . moreover , britain , france , germany , sweden , russia , and china have opposed trump ’s imposition of crippling economic sanctions on iran . they are committed to preserving the treaty , and to doing their best to persuade iran ’s leaders to continue to abide by it . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the eu ’s signatories established a special mechanism to ease trade and entrepreneurship with iran at the risk of american retaliation , while russia and china expanded their economic and strategic ties with the islamic republic , marking the first time in the western alliance ’s history that america ’s european allies joined forces with its rivals .
to compare , if the average american would pay 15 cents on the dollar . in other words , some of the world ’s poorest people pay some of the very high price for energy . efficient solutions to the problem exists : solar-power technology . according to the african progress panel , poor african households would save $ 58 per year , on average , by installing solar panels – the money they can spend on education , health , and productive investments . of course , firms providing those panels would also benefit considerably from tapping this large new market .
today , just 100 us corporations produce 71 % of greenhouse-gas ( ghg ) emissions . moreover , the wealthiest 10 % are responsible for about 50 % of ghg emissions , whereas the world ’s poorest 50 % produce 10 % of the emissions . moreover , unwilling to stand up to those who are ravaging our planet , us political leaders have thus latched onto technocratic solutions , including geoengineering approaches that promise to suck already-emitted carbon out of the atmosphere . even the ipcc has contained assumptions about such technologies in many of its modeled pathways to keeping global temperatures from rising more than 1.5 ° c above pre-industrial levels . this process has been unfolding for centuries , but accelerated in recent decades , because a select few have acquired an ever-larger share of total wealth and political influence .
and if growth decelerated because of the higher cost of imported intermediate inputs , the fed can offset this by raising interest rates more slowly . us imports amount to 15 % of america ’s gdp , with us national income accounting for about $ 10 % . multiply $ 0.10 by $ 0.10 ( a hypothesized tariff rate ) and you would receive a return of 1.5 % . allow some substitutions to become more expensive by imported manufactured goods falls below 1 % . for one thing , foreign central banks can do likewise .
suppose that the government is getting it right 19 times from march 20 , when it relies on suspicion of engaging in terrorist activities to revoke people ’s citizenship . if this were true of decisions made by the uk government in 2013 , there would still be a high probability that an innocent naturalized citizen was made stateless . and yet simply rerevoking citizenship does not solve the problem of leaving at large a suspicious terrorist , who may then carry on attacking elsewhere , unless , as with sakr , she is killing . the larger question that the uk ’s proposed legislation raises is the desirable balance of individual rights , including the right to citizenship and the public good . suppose that the government gets it right 19 times out of 20 , when it relies on suspicion of engaging in terrorist activities to “ revoke ” people ’s citizenship .
governments should establish emissions caps , and the private sector would compete to deliver lower-cost solutions . china and india , in particular , should stop building new coal-fired power plants at home , and capital-exporting countries like china and japan should stop funding new coal-fired power plants in the rest of asia , such as pakistan and the philippines . private-sector firms will compete intensively to lower further the costs of renewable-energy systems , including power generation , energy storage , and downstream uses such as electric vehicles , electric heating and cooking technologies , and a new , next-generation , hydrogen economy . government and entrepreneurship together should fund new research and development to drive costs even at a lower rate . as old fossil-fuel plants age and shut down , they should then be replaced with clean power generation on competing lines , for example through renewable-energy auctions .
what the mikta countries share are rapid economic growth and rising influence outside of their own borders . these have development problems , but they are also models of economic dynamism and innovations with substantial stake in how post-wwii global institutions and rules are supposed to be reshaping . in the alphabet soup of international politics , the nine-member jawbreaker like farage , might at last prove too unwieldy to be workable . the bottom line , though , is that it will be russia ’s imminent absence from the multilateral scene will prove to be a catalyst for new thinking on global challenges . many of their challenges and ambitions dovetail up with those in the caribbean ( the brics , out-quartile ) .
too little was done to close the output gap , leaving continued downward pressure on demand . when the fed perceived how weak the upturn remained , it launched a “ unconventional monetary policy ” strategy , ” ” combining large-scale purchases of long-term securities ( quantitative easing ) with promises to keep the short-term federal funds rate at exceptionally low levels for an extended period . the objective was to encourage portfolio investors to shift to equities and other assets , with the resulting rise in their prices pushing up household wealth and consumer spending . much of the “ stimulus ” merely financed increased spending by state governments that would have been paid off in several other ways . other components of the stimulus went to individuals , but , in the words of the fiscal package , increased transfers and spending added more to the national debt , rather than gdp .
public rejection of europe in the september 2000 referendum hinged on the failure of europe ’s supporters to explain the difference between italy ’s uncontested politics and full euro participation . in denmark , my own country , an economic readiness is not the issue . as a result , denmark may be the last to vote , but not necessarily to join . indeed , danish voters saw most of the benefits of european membership already because of the danish krone unchanged links first to the dm , then to europe , through the past 15 years . despite their different starting positions , sweden , denmark , and the uk all have this in common : they prefer to see europe as a cap land-based in constructing the single market , rather than as a stepping stone to a closer union .
to be sure , north korea ’s regime is not the only constraint on international engagement . conservatives in both the united states and south korea might argue that north korea must move first toward denuclearization before any form of economic assistance is offered . but there is no reason why an international effort to ensure north korea ’s denuclearization must preclude policies aimed at bringing about domestic reform . in contrast , the victory of north korea ’s assent to denuclearization in the absence of far-reaching domestic change may have been impossible . we need not assume that these goals can not be pursued in isolation .
and no one should doubt that the front and its electorate mean what they are saying . at the heart of europe ’s political crisis is the eurozone ’s ’s economic and financial malaise , which neither national governments nor eu institutions seem capable of addressing . rather than reinforcing pan-european solidarity , economic distress has led to massive distributional conflicts . what once was a relationship among equals has given way to one dispositive face-recognition between borrowers and creditors . the mutual mistrust that characterizes this conflict may irreparably harm the soul of the union , as well as the entire european project .
unless its competitors take extraordinary , extraordinarily costly steps – like those taken by microsoft to netscape , his rival in the internet of the browser market , by pouring a fortune into the creation of his internet explorer , and then distributing it to “ free ” the first firm to establish a dominant market position will reap high profits as long as its industry sector lasts . the larger the market , the larger the cost advantage of all this , will also be more valuable for consumers . in the section of the “ new economy ” dominated by producers ’ economies of scale and the consumer economies of scope , a company that sets a forefront of market share gains with other goods ( which , of course , are designed to work best ) . moreover , larger-scale information goods are also greater for consumers . the version with the largest market share becomes the norm ; the simplest is to figure out how to deploy , the simplest to find support , and the one that works best with other goods ( which are clearly designed to work best ) .
that is why its member states must take the lead in proposing solutions . the most urgent priority is to establish a safe , legal pathways for refugees to reach europe . this does not imply that every vulnerable migrant must be accepted . but the eu should be more systematically generous in determining how much to admit , and to implement organized ways to facilitate their entry . such a system would protect migrants and safeguard europe ( by allowing it to vet applicants fully ) .
in recent years , american politics and political institutions have become more polarized than the distribution of views within the american public would suggest . citizens ’ behavior does not seem to have changed as dramatically as have their responses to poll questions . as an editorial in the economist recently concluded , “ america ’s political system was designed to make legislation on the federal level difficult , not easy . ” the us economy ’s post-2008 downturn was exacerbated further by the post-2008 downturn . three-quarters of americans feel connected to their communities , and say the quality of life there is quaint or good ; 40 % say that working with others in their communities is the most important thing they can do .
new york – history at any moment can be understood as a snapshot , telling us of where we are , or as a moving picture , telling us not only where we are , but where we have been , and where we may be headed . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . it divides us with a level of enormous gap . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world .
for example , the shenzhen ’s urban air mobility ( uam ) project , which provides on-demand helicopter traffic , removes the city ’s well-known innovative capacity , while addressing congestion . similarly , innovation can drive pollution abatement , for example . initiatives that advance pollution abatement targets , while providing fair access to services among resident residents , should be subsidized by the central government . awareness is the third pillar of a strategy to tackle air pollution , but it must do so as well . this does not necessarily mean inundating people with news stories about global environmental devastation ; on the contrary , that approach may lead to desensitization .
after some years of such a saudi protectorate over the palestinians , grave negotiations – more or less based on crown prince abdullah ’s proposals for a comprehensive agreement – could be set back again . meanwhile , a process of de-escalation , stabilization , and political consolidation within palestinian societies is the most urgent priority . a saudi protectorate may be the key to achieving this . maybe , but so far the conventional solution has proven unworkable , even disastrous . anything else that has already failed , may be the only choice left for both israelis and palestinians .
bringing the banking system under european supervision , rather than leaving it in the hands of national institutions , would be a fundamental improvement that helps to restore confidence . this would allow the sovereign-debt bonds to be restructured without precipitating a banking crisis . and it would have the additional merit of enlightening the german public about the true purpose of rescue operations . despite this added challenge , the size of a rescue package could remain the same , for any amount used for recapitalizing or liquidating banks would minimize the amount that governments need . first , europe ’s financial stability facility must serve as much to save the banking system , as it does to member states .
while nobody knows that corbyn ’s position will take on this issue , one can speculate that he , like some of the trade-union bosses who supported him , might decide that the eu is a rich man of the club of rich , thereby precluding a much-needed cross-party consensus in favor of continued eu membership . second , with no effective and responsible opposition in sight , governments can become arrogant , careless , and excessively oriented toward their own supporters . in this scenario , leaders of the far-right conservative party are likely to think that they can dispense with offering disciplined support to prime minister david cameron and his policies , because labour can never win under corbyn , anyway . third , at some time over the next year , the uk will face a referendum over its membership in the european union . by contrast , at the start , may will be able to galvanize many alienated young voters against a government that has earned wary respect but is not exactly liked .
the bailout had been brought about by aig ’s large losses on its derivative transactions with financial institutions , mostly sophisticated players like goldman sachs and spain ’s banco santander . having the government ’s infusion of funds in september 2008 , aig ’s losses continue to mount , so the government provided substantial amounts of additional capital just two months later . at that point , the government asked aig ’s derivative counterparties to accept a voluntary “ haircut ” – that is , to accept a discount on the amount owed to them . when some of these parties refused , the government backed down and financed aig ’s payments to all of its derivative obligations in full . america ’s government felt it had a weak hand in the sense that it was not prepared to allow aig to default on any of its obligations .
hamas ’s coup , in some ways , is making things clearer . gaza is ruled by an entirely hostile regime , but one that has no interest in breaking its control over the gaza strip . israel will feel free to retaliate for cross-border attacks and to resume rocket fire at civilian targets within the country . at last , the world must recognize that hopes stirred up by the 1990 ’s peace process were utterly dashed . israel has long since imposed a choice that it has no interest in renewing its control of the gaza strip .
the aberrant period in us history is the century or so after america ’s civil war , during which breakthroughs in energy , electrification , telecommunications , and transportation are fundamentally reshaped societies . human lives has become markedly more productive , and life expectancies have skyrocketed dramatically . between 1800 and 1900 , the world population grew by more than 50 % , and then more than doubled in the following 50 years , with economies growing much faster than in previous centuries . by the late 1970s , growth had begun to decelerate in many advanced western economies , and us president ronald reagan and federal reserve chair alan greenspan ushered in a cycle of debt that super-charged activity . today , technological innovation and demography are headwind , rather than tailwind , per capita growth , and financial engineering can not save the day .
both parties involve conservatives and liberals , the defense hawks , and the doves . the dpj ’s president , ichiro ozawa , who once served as ldp secretary general , is an exemplar of this blinkered legacy . the sad fact is that the chances that the ldp will reform or that the dpj will evolve into a responsible governing party along the ideological and policy lines . japan seems condemned to endure the chronic and pointless political trench warfare , until some of the crisis forces the realignment of the political parties along the ideological and political lines . the dpj ’s inner circle of political inertia comprises the current pseudo-two-party system comprising the ldp and the dpj , because divisions of parties are de facto devoid of any consistent ideological and policy divergence .
moreover , labour party leader jeremy corbyn , a hardline socialist and closet brexiteer , insists on leading such a government . but bringing down the government would be insufficient for a halt to a no-deal brexit . that would require conservative insurgents , the opposition liberal democrats , as well as mps who quit labour in protest over corbyn ’s leadership to rally behind it – a tall order . the motley crew of insurgents also would have needed support the formation of a caretaker government that seeks a brexit extension , calling the general election , and maybe also a legislate for a second referendum . moreover , labour party leader jeremy corbyn , a hardline socialist and closet brexiteer , is insisting on leading such a government .
asi , the profits stem from apple ’s intellectual property ( ip ) rights , which are based on research and development conducted exclusively in the us ( most underpinned by federal government funding ) . as a result , those profits should be taxed in the us . instead , apple charges asi a symbolic fee for allowing it to profit from apple ’s ip privilege , for which it pays a miniscule tax to the irs . curiously , the irs is choosing not to enforce apple a obligation to pay tax on its us-sourced ip profits . that arrangement has also demanded that the american internal revenue service play along .
each party has acquired ( or maintained ) power by polarizing its societies and mobilizing its electoral base . the pekos ’ political style was enabled by modern news media that , scrambling for audiences to share , streamline , and sensationalize issues . this gives confrontational politicians a powerful edge and produces the electoral polarization on which the institution feeds . starkly antagonistic statements and positions tend to gain the most exposure . this gives confrontational politicians a powerful edge , and produces the electoral polarization on which the anc feeds .
that suggestion may be amusing the coming from a child , but it is nothing amused when governments apply it , as they increasingly do , to sophisticated policies involving both science and technology . during the summer , for example , britons had their say about whether they wanted gene-spliced or genetically modified ( gm ) , products in their fields , and food . local governments and other organizations held hundreds of additional public meetings , and many others . to gauge public opinion in advance of a decision scheduled for later this year on whether to permit commercial planting gm crops , the british government-sponsored ( at great expense ) a plethora of public discussion around the country . the head of britain ’s organizing committee , professor malcolm grant , called them “ a special experiment to find out what ordinary people actually think once had heard all the arguments . ”
in reality , the kremlin is funding many of these parties . there are other kremlin supporters as well , including corporate leaders , who want to return to business as usual with russia , and academic apologists for the soviet union , who italy , 25 years after its collapse , see an opportunity for vindication . today , european governments seem willing to allow putin to buy the votes with which he will subvert the eu . and , with public-opinion polls revealing that a significant minority of europeans are falling ranks in line with putin ’s rhetoric , his grand strategy of dividing the eu and nato appears set to make genuine headway . in reality , the kremlin has been funding many of these parties .
indeed , according to a world bank estimate , 10-30 % of arable land worldwide – land that would accrue to millions of african smallholders , pastoralists , and indigenous peoples – have been buffeted by large-scale investment . inappropriate agricultural practices also hold the blame : liberal use of synthetic fertilizer , for example , decimates organisms inhabiting land and change its structure . in germany alone , construction projects claim more than 75 hectares a day . at the same time , global food demand , fodder , and biomass for fuels is growing , in turn driving the value of land – the failure to escape international investors ’ attention . inappropriate agricultural practices are also to blame : liberal use of synthetic fertilizer , for example , decimates organisms inhabiting land and changing its structure .
convinced that history will judge a president by his success in containing the iranian threat , broder also presupposes that a war with iran would reignite the american economy . that is a strange idea , given that today ’s two ongoing wars have only compounded america ’s weaknesses . an american war against iran is plausible only as a response to a blatant , immediate iranian call for vital american interests , such as a major terrorist attack , invasion of an ally in the gulf , or the disruption of free flow of middle eastern oil to the west . the iranian regime is far too astute to cross any of these red lines . iran , like north korea , will still test obama ’s capacity to build international alliances aimed at putting pressure on defiant states .
the imf ’s economic framework still does not provide for countercyclical fiscal policies , because the imf remains ambivalent about the standard keynesian prescription of stimulating the economy in the run-up to the downturn . while germany ’s president is not supposed to intervene in the country ’s day-to-day management , his voice will undoubtedly be influential . in brazil and elsewhere , the imf ’s distorted accounting frameworks – what it does and does not count as expenditures – continue to impede the investments required to modernize public-sector firms and introduce a major roadblock in the path of land reform . for example , when a government borrows to buy land , it treat each other as debt ; but an offsetting transaction when it sells land through mortgages effectively goes unacknowledged . it is here that germany should take an pause and look on record .
washington , dc – donald trump was formally inaugurated as america ’s us president , but questions about russia ’s policy interference in us elections will not go away . yet one key question often seems to have faded into the fray : why has russian president vladimir putin done so ? in our view , american intelligence agencies ’ conclusion that by aiding trump , the kremlin has advancing its “ longstanding ” desire to undermine the us-led , liberal democratic order is not completely compelling . of course , it is not hard to guess why putin favored trump over his opponent , former secretary of state hillary clinton . but there is a difference between hoping for an outcome , and blazing large aggrieved , and assigning great risk , to help bring it about .
nonetheless , finance minister arun jaitley ’s budget succeeds on multiple fronts – not least in their convergence with visions and implementation . specifically , it advances the government ’s own vision of a pro-growth agenda that enhances the ease of doing business in india , while targeting better delivery mechanisms for welfare regimes . no budget changes could generate such a pegged , cost-free acceleration of growth . moreover , the country is projected to grow at an annual rate of 8-8.5 % in the next fiscal year . it is fair to say that the usually touted department of staid stole the thunder of this year ’s budget .
but , following the exhaustion of the maoist strategy in the 1970s , chinese leaders turned to market mechanisms to foster economic development . japan ’s single-minded focus on economic growth achieved its goal , but the country developed only modest military and soft power . in its first decades , a communist china built up its military strength , and simultaneously deployed the soft power of maoist revolutionary doctrine and third world solidarity to cultivate its allies abroad . it also followed conciliatory diplomacy toward britain and the us , and spent substantial resources in order to make itself an attractive overseas . after its imperialist , east asia ’s co-prosperity scheme of the 1930s ( which had the soft-power component of anti-european propaganda ) and its defeat in world war ii , japan turned toward a strategy that minimized military power and relied on strategic alliance with the us .
regulatory reforms are starting to mitigate shadow-banking risks , and even some ghost towns are reviving market forces . xi ’s anti-corruption campaign has gone as far as to remove a retired politburo standing committee member , china ’s most powerful body . at the upcoming fifth plenum , china ’s leaders must build on that progress , agreeing to maintain the reform momentum . likewise , carbon-dioxide emissions have fallen dramatically in the us since early this year , and the authorities appear well on track to hit the carbon-intensity goal set in 2010 . to succeed , the government needs to do as xi puts it , “ gnaw even tough bones ” – that is , overcome the vested interests that resist change .
and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on its current course for many years to come . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has any interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
in keeping with the spirit of time , governments introduce business criteria for measuring efficiency -- and “ success , ” more generally , -- of public services . that means , first and foremost , setting performance goals . this method of governance makes it appear that , at long last , we can hold policymakers accountable by setting up whether targets were reached or not . waiting lists for hospital beds will be slashed by one-third in the next two years . thus , the ministers proclaim a street crime to be halved next spring , or that the proportion of each generation traveling to universities will rise to 50 % within five years .
peru ’s president alejandro toledo has devised a new extreme sport , a soccer game in which he is the sole player . rather than kicking the ball to win , he aims to ensure that his opponents scores . this helps explain why , with more than half of his term left , the man who had led popular movements to unseat former president alberto fujimori holds a mere 7 % of popularity ratings today – the lowest ranking of any peruvian leader since the 1980 ’s has returned . toledo claimed that he would send all dishonest officials to jail – words that captured peruvians ’ imagination , who wanted to see criminal politicians brought to justice . toledo assumed the presidency intended to dismantle the corruption that marked fujimori ’s administration , and to end the reign of his crooked intelligence chief , vladimiro montesinos .
in 2004 , shortly before the us election , osama bin laden unleashed a videos that may have helped president bush defeat senator john kerry . a flaw in the us presidential debate may turn the tide of public opinion overnight , just as has occurred to then-president gerald ford in his debate with jimmy carter in 1976 . from bin laden ’s perspective , bush ’s policies were more helpful in trying to recruit supporters than kerry may have been . a further event that might turn the tables would have been the “ october surprise ” associated with terrorism , which could have shifted the agenda from the financial crisis to security , the republicans ’ stronger track record . conversely , ronald reagan ’s performance in his debate with carter in 1980 is often credited for his victory .
so why not elect someone like lugovoi , who actually represents what the elite stands for ? would n’t lugovoi ’s entrance into a politics inspire an ideal solution to the problem of finding putin ’s heir apparent ? that search , after all , threatens to divide a nation ’s elite . but i see a practical turning point in all of that no one is still broached . let us compare the two potential presidential candidates , putin in 1999 and lugovoi in 2007 .
the un sustainable development goal of eliminating extreme poverty worldwide by 2030 depends entirely on continued economic growth through trade , technological innovation , and international cooperation . erecting trade barriers , engaging in digital mercantilism , and , in effect , undermining the liberal world order , will severely harm the extreme poor in africa and other underdeveloped regions , while doing nothing to help african coal miners in west virginia . such thinking poses a grave threat to the world ’s most vulnerable people . such thinking poses a grave threat to the world ’s most vulnerable people . the un ’s sustainable development goal of eliminating extreme poverty worldwide by 2030 depends entirely on continued economic growth through trade , technological innovation , and international cooperation .
some argue that the state – and , by extension , the communist party of china ( cpc ) – must retain a prominent role , in order to uphold the social stability needed to sustain economic development . others argue that spurring the innovations needed to attain high-income status demands that the state be less like a market participant , and more like the referee , regulator , and arbiter of economic and private-sector institutions . moreover , the chinese state has resolved coordination problems that are not readily or efficiently handled through a decentralized set of markets , particularly in developing countries , where market institutions and administrative capabilities may come at a different stage of development . at the same time , state involvement is required to help manage inequality and ensure that growth patterns are inclusive , which markets alone can not be counted on to do . to be sure , some argue that the state – and , by extension , the communist party of china ( cpc ) – needs to retain a prominent role , in order to uphold the social stability required to sustain
egypt ’s fiscal deficit , for example , will exceed 11 % of gdp this year . almost all political stakeholders in egypt , as in other arab countries in transition , recognize the need for economic reform . but the country ’s leaders have been stalling on the terms of much-needed international monetary fund loan . the government ’s reduction of fuel subsidies last year has not been followed by additional reforms ; the desired tax increases were delayed soon after president mohamed morsi announced . but the country ’s leaders ’ urgency does not translate into more economic urgency .
our unicef survey of 126 developing countries found that between the almost one-half that slash public-sector expenditures ; common adjustment measures include public-sector wage moderation or caps ; the retreat of food subsidies ; and the targeting and rationalization of already meager social-protection systems . these adjustment measures are often adopted without carefully scrutinizing their social impact . how many kids will miss out on education , because teachers are absent because of low wages , or simply because poor children must work to supplement their family ’s income ? how many poor chileans will suffer – or die – from food shortages and healthcare ? and yet , this might happen even very well .
the first scenario is bleak : germany ’s failure to integrate refugees socially and economically ; political discontent surges , political discontent newcomers have become increasingly frustrated with its plight . any steps that they take to vent that frustration embolden right-wing populists , and could lead to violence on both sides . indeed , germany ’s future could play out jointly in two ways . certainly , the world has a large stake in which scenario prevails . if , at worst , any terrorist attack were to occur – particularly one that could , to some extent , join the refugees – a nationalist-populist reaction would be powerful , potentially weakening the very fabric of german society .
in this respect , the demand for mubarak ’s immediate resignation originated from cairo ’s tahrir square rather than from the obama administration represents a positive development . by contrast , the army ’s decision to allow mubarak loyalists , some riding camels , or horse – to charge into cairo ’s tahrir square , and to attack thousands of anti-government demonstrators was a classical “ army ” as government ” move . what is clear is that the interest of the “ army as instituto ” depends on the army ’s ability to establish much wider separation from the regime . successful political transitions are also helped , if more and more citizens come to feel that they are “ own ” between the protests and the resulting transition . at that point , a democratic transition will most likely require that the army play a more active role in protecting protesters .
at the same time , clearly , they will work in close collaboration with ugandan forces . given america ’s reluctance to join the icc ( or bring its own mob to justice in the us courts ) , such a role would be vulnerable to an international as well as a domestic political assault . nevertheless , the extent of american cooperation with the icc has gone beyond even the constructive role suggested by the obama administration . evidently , american policymakers have been even more receptive to the potential of international criminal justice to undergird the terms of a new form of global engagement . yet the extent of american cooperation with the icc has exceeded even the constructive role suggested by the obama administration .
deep in the heart of american ideology and culture is a constellation of beliefs and attitudes : belief that the future is brighter than the present ; that what you accomplish with respect to you ; that individuals should rely upon oneself , not the state ; that people can cross the oceans and mountains to make themselves a better life ; and that those who do not succeed through luck and corruption but through the process of preparation and industry . so why are n’t americans feeling more alarm at their country 's soaring income inequality ? part of the reason that they fail is that a majority of americans fail to recognize what is happening anyway . one poll found that 19 % of americans think their incomes place them in the top 1 % of the income distribution -- and that 20 % more hope to come to reach the top 1 % someday . these are not beliefs conducive to social democracy ; they are not at all conducive to society .
stockholm – our generation has a unique opportunity to do so . if we set our minds to it , we could be the first in human history to abandon our kids with nothing : without greenhouse-gas emissions , without poverty , and no loss of biodiversity . that is the course set by world leaders set when they met at the un at the united nations in new york , on september 25 to adopt the goals for sustainable development ( sdgs ) . the 17 goals range from ending poverty and improving health to protecting the planet ’s biosphere , and delivering energy for all . they emerged from the un ’s largest summit in history , the “ rio +20 ” conference in 2012 , followed by the largest consultation that the un ever carried out .
the german blogger richard gutjahr , for example , became the object of conspiracy theories and the target of intense harassment after just two terror strikes within the next two weeks of one another . thus , noisiest are often rewarded with a “ megaphone , ” while less polarizing , less privileged voices are drowned out , even as they provide the smart , nuanced perspectives that truly can enrich public debate . victims of online harassment often respond with self-immolations , and many , with their sense of safety and even self-worth , eroded , remove themselves completely from social media . when a algorithm does n’t do the job of silencing , less privileged voices , online trolls often step in , directing hate and threatening speech at whomever they select . women and minorities alike are particularly prone to being victims of online harassment , but anyone can be targeted .
few rich countries are doing better than those of the united states , and most rich countries are doing a better job . africans do not vote ; they do not buy american products ; they do not threaten violence . i united america not because it is unique in its neglect , but because it is unique in its capacity to lead it . africans barely count in american policies . they are simply poor , hungry , and disease-ridden societies .
hence , as he puts it in 1932 , there can be no escape from prolonged , and possibly interminable depression , except through direct state intervention to favor and subsidize new investment ” – which is what the obama administration is rightly doing . on the question of what caused the crash , the discussion is all the more even . krugman is hampered by his attributes to “ irrationality ” , ” ” which , as cochrane points out , is not even theory . in my view , keynes ’s big contribution to economic theory was to emphasize the “ extreme precariousness of the foundation of knowledge upon which our estimates of prospective yield had to be made . this is because krugman refuses to take seriously keynes ’s crucial distinction between risk and uncertainty .
cape town – nowadays , people are all too often forced to choose between doing what is morally right and doing what is economically beneficial . indeed , their options sometimes seem to be mutually exclusive , making any decisions about which route to taking exceedingly demanding action . sometimes , but not all that is wrong with moral rectitude and an economic reality merge , presenting an opportunity that must not be missed . that is the case – from the perspectives of this archbishop and former finance minister of finance – with the world responsive to climate change . the moral imperative is unincontrovertible , because the effects of climate change – including extreme weather , temperature change , and rising sea levels – are felt most keenly by the global poor , who have also benefited the least from the economic activities that cause it .
hallyday was the child of a generation that watched american gis enter paris , and that invented for itself an american ascendance . he was the gritty pertinently of the french scene , a chameleon beamed out on satellite tv , dripping with fake swedish and real glitz , an artist who , such as the novelist , confessed the way of lies . and , on that day , he was so merry that his absence looked like part of a show , somehow making us forget that it was no longer with us . abiding in each of us was the jewishness that has migrated us all : youth spent with the touts act , like gautier ’s captain strayed fracasse ; the father , a character outside of modiano , who , among the disneil of bouts of drinking , pawned the gifts given to his deserted son . and then , there was the ’60s rocker , with the sights of sad wolf and cheekbones giacometti , catcher in rye mood , and melancholy so intensely hopeless to condemn him to live on the edge of every form of whatever excess .
it was , of course , subject to ups and downs , but it was not subject to the financial crises of the type that we now see . moreover , capitalism in the post-wwii decades had maintained full employment , with youth unemployment often hovering around 2 % in europe , north america , and japan . the keys to that periods of growth and happiness were strong social-welfare systems and primarily keynesian domestic and foreign-policy policies in all big states of the world . job insecurity returned then predominantly unknown , and mass poverty had disappeared . first , every advanced economy had pursued policies aimed at providing high wages , which would have ensured high consumption , and thus rapid growth .
that seems to reflect a stance expressed by cameron and former german chancellor of the exchequer george osborne that helped set the stage for brexit . in response to the euro crisis , they argued that europe needed more fiscal integration , but would n’t the uk ; no british financial participation in future european rescue operations would have taken place . solidarity ( at least the kind that costs money ) stopped at the english channel . but , like de gaulle ’s declaration and may ’s slogan , churchill ’s statements employed the language of political ambiguity . we are interested , and associated , but not absorbed .
what the west can do is enforce pressure on iran – and on other governments in the future – to assure and account for protesters ’ safety . barack obama says that america “ stands with ” those who support free assembly . that will be welcome news to people living under dictatorial regimes have installed and propped up by american women , as well as opposition leaders and reporters languishing in us-backed prisons in those countries for having engaged with just such protest . in this kind of crisis , america ’s president should form a united front with human rights groups that can advise him exactly how to follow , sustain , and support those iranians who have been or may not yet be arrested or worse . natan sharansky has argued that this tactic – the west ’s tracking and demanding accountability for handling individual internal dissenters – has helped to break down the soviet union .
russian membership in the world trade organization has the potential to cement the rule of law , combat corruption , and giving russia a stake in better relations with the outside world . closer ties between russia and the european union make sense , however , for similar reasons . as a result , russia should be treated as a major power , implying consultations on important global issues . there should also be some understanding for what russians and russians have gone over the last two decades ago . losing a country and a special place in the world is the type of trauma that might lead to the rise of extreme , potentially violent nationalism .
but a consensus had emerged in brazil that a left-wing party could neither win nor govern with hard-left ideas , and lula ’s presidency did not question that view . the big one is not always quite the legal ones on which the world bank and development agencies have focused ; rather , they are the business risks of a failing company or a polity that implodes . whatever the case , for key brazilian left leaders , including rousseff , capitalism has become part of the solution , rather than the underlying problem . for brazil , investors are taking all forms of risks , as is the case now . the consensus may have reflected the successes of lula ’s predecessor , fernando henrique cardoso , the relative success of privatization and liberal market economies around the world , and the growth of brazil ’s middle class .
one big loser in this world will be the shipping ventures ( along with junkyards , logistics companies , and centralized recycling operations ) . when things can be made , used , broken/worn out , and recycled closer to home , the need for transport decreases dramatically . recycled materials need not be delivered to centralized processing centers , and then to send them to factories . of course , my reduced cost will be someone else ’s ’s ’s reduced income – and not just apple ’s . products will not need to be made in those factories , and then shipped to customers or inventory centers .
london – in the 1960s , a green revolution that included developing higher-yielding crop varieties , expanding irrigation infrastructure , and distributing modern fertilizers and pesticides to developing-country farmers bolstered agricultural production globally . but chronic hunger remains pervasive , particularly in the developing world , which suffer the most from crop shortfalls and food-price volatility . by 2050 , the global human population is expected to surpass nine billion . achieving food security means ensuring that every person has consistent , affordable access to proper nutrients , despite land and water constraints ; changing climate change ; and the increasing prevalence of resource-intensive western-style diets that accompany rising incomes . surmounting these challenges will not be easy ; they will not be easy ; they are a problem .
in reality , turkey needs europe just as much as europe needs turkey . turkey , not the european union , is currently shaping its presence in the world . indeed , for many years , erdoğan ’s government ’s domestic critics denmark ’s government denouncing what they describe as the regime ’s “ putinization ” . turkey , not the european union , is currently feeling the presence felt in the world . but the course in terms of history may change rapidly .
conversely , experience indicates that governments often struggle to align public spending with underlying or mounting problems , such as public-health threats , until they reach a crisis point . indeed , last year , ’s 580,000 cancer deaths exceed the approximately 430,000 combat deaths , on average , in world war i , world war ii , the korean war , the vietnam war , and the gulf war . still , government spending on cancers averages about $ 4 trillion a year . that is just over 0.5 % of america ’s annual military budget of roughly $ 718 billion . more people died from cancer in america last year than in fighting .
i had hoped that we would have the nerve to overcome our perceived humiliation and begin looking deep in our national psyche , to ask the big question , “ why did 15 of us attack america in so brutal a fashion ? ” so far , we are nowhere closer than we were after the attack to respond to that question , because we can not even find the nerve to ask . i used to believe that denial of saudi complicity in the attacks reflected our distress with what happened on that dark day . by visiting saudi arabia kingdom citizens recently asked me why five out of the six students whom he interviewed at king saud university still believe that al qaida was not responsible for the attacks on the world trade center and the pentagon in america last year ? dealing with that question is becoming increasingly frustrating for me , because i was running out of plausible explanations .
moreover , income inequality has widened , with a global phenomenon of rising wealth concentration at the very top very pronounced in many arab countries . top incomes in these countries have largely resulted from political patronage , rather than from innovation and hard work . while tunisia was the extreme case of the regime furthering the economic interests of insiders ’ small-clique , the pattern was widespread . that is why the knee-jerk , simplistic “ washington consensus ” ” prescription ” prescription of more market liberalization and privatization is unsuitable for the arab world in 2012 . a growth strategy is unmistakable , not an afterthought .
trump ’s protectionist policies thus call into question the entire german economic model , as it has existed since the 1950s . but that is not the case anymore . germany ’s economy relies heavily on exports , which means it is acutely vulnerable to trade barriers and the punitive tariffs imposed by major trading partners . indeed , trump ’s recent actions are not just a matter of trade anymore , but of america ’s departure from pax americana itself . few countries are more interconnected in the postwar order than germany , which , like japan , owes its post-1945 economic resurgence to the rules-based trading system .
during macron ’s first five-year term , that is why he should focus on boosting france ’s gdp growth to an average of at least 2 % per year , reducing the unemployment rate to less than 6 % . part of the polish unemployment challenge is tied to hidden costs . france has some of the highest labor costs for eu workers , and the natural result is tepid hiring . with inequality also on the rise , many french are justifiably upset that labor is taxed far more than capital gains . the simplest way for both goals would be to focus on where france underperforms relative to other eu countries .
in early december , putin signed the federal budget for 2015 , which foresaw 2 % annual gdp growth and a budget deficit amounting to 0.5 % of gdp . but collapsing oil prices , coupled with the tough economic sanctions imposed by america and europe , meant that the government forecasts a 4 % drop in gdp and a budget deficit of 3.5 % of gdp , followed by budget cuts worth 1 % of gdp . based on those figures , it is estimated that by the end of this year , russia will spend 70 % of the federal reserve ’s reserves accrued over the past decade , or so at a time when oil prices were high . nonetheless , putin ’s approval ratings remain at about 80 % . if low oil prices persist , and western economic sanctions remain in place , russia is running out of cash in late 2016 .
given that libra would take the form of private money linked to a basket of stable major currencies , how would that work in practice ? a standard-d-efficient markets ” analysis does not help us answer that question , because in perfect markets , such flows would be self-correcting . as one facebook ceo puts it , “ we want to sending money to be as easy as sending a text message . ” but , of course , libra is selling as much more . if argentina ’s people could switch from pesos to the basket of stable currencies with a single touch of their smartphones , would n’t they then pour into that safe asset at the first signs of trouble in the domestic economy ?
should bush , bernanke , or the new us treasury secretary henry paulson , causing investors to lose faith in america ’s own financial assets at a certain point in time , a rising europe will help shield european interest rates from the effects . the recently rising europe also helped to hold down european long-term interest rates — a key determinant of economic activity — because inflationary expectations have deteriorated somewhat in the euro-zone . during april , the rise of inflationary expectations , along with the euro ’s appreciation , occurred more or less concurrently . yields on ten-year german bond , perhaps expected to go higher , owing to the deterioration of inflationary expectations during this period , barely moved . this is a big plus for sustaining economic recovery .
that political entity is an accurate counterpart across the political world , to a well-known physical phenomenon of splintering or fissuring or fissuring . the united kingdom looks older , more stable , yet scotland today runs a political party that wants to decommission the union ’s 1707 act , with the future being established by the 2014 scottish referendum . when stressed , big surface bifurcates in big chunks , but then disintegration continues into smaller and smaller fragments . of the six larger eu member states , only france has a genuinely well-defined centralized political system . of poland ’s six larger eu member states , france alone has a genuinely well-defined centralized political system . the united kingdom looks older , more stable , yet scotland today is governed by a right-wing political party that wants to revoke the union ’s 1707 act , with the future being set by the 2014 scottish referendum .
we tend to believe in banknotes , because we collectively decide to trust the government when it says that $ 100 , not ten , or even 50 . once that trust breaks down , the wrong kind of things happens to be . money , therefore , is about trust , without which no society can function . just as we follow our leaders ’ commands to fight and die because we trust their judgment , we entrust our careers and our money to those who run citigroup and goldman sachs , and other such banks , because we believe that their leaders will be fair to their employees and clients and honorable in their business practices . we do n’t grow up wishing to work for crooks and liars .
ultimately , of course , the soviet union ’s ossified structure could not have been saved ; but , thanks in large part to gorbachev ’s fundamental decency , the ussr ’s demise in 1991 was rather peaceful . like francis and sanders before him , gorbachev was an implausible reformer . he created an environment in which demands for radical change led to compromise rather than rage – in stark contrast to , say , yugoslavia ’s violent breakup . he created an environment in which demands for radical change led to compromise rather than rage – in stark contrast to , say , yugoslavia ’s violent breakup . despite rising to power with the kgb ’s backing , he did not surrender his fantasies processes to that machine , in the manner most clearly by president vladimir putin .
america ’s agricultural subsidies just do so . those in the developing world who believe that there has been a history of bargaining in bad faith have a strong case . unsurprisingly , wealthy countries ’ negotiators are throwing around big numbers when describing the gains from even an imperfect deal . whatever economics , taking that route may be harder today than ever before : with so many developing countries becoming vibrant democracies , electorates can punish governments that embrace what is widely viewed as yet another unfair trade deal . that leaves developing countries facing a hard choice : will they be better off accepting the crumbs on offer to them ?
princeton – recently , physicists at the great hadron collider ( lhc ) – the world ’s most powerful particle accelerator , located near geneva ( cern ) – announced that a celebrated discovery in the 2012 of the higgs boson was actually higgs boson . four years ago , the doomsayers prediction that the lhc would produce microscopic black holes that swallow the earth in just a few months later . these prophets were , of course , neither first nor last for their species . latter-day nostradamuses fueled widespread fear , not to mention lawsuits , some of high-power particle physics experiments . now , the standard model of particle physics is complete , with the exception of one important thing : the black holes .
in fact , monetary policy has long played an important role in brazilian politics . during the country ’s democratization process of the 1980s and 1990s , successive governments tried to tame hyperinflation , reaching ¥ 2,477 % in 1993 . introducing a “ real plan , ” ” ” ” launched in 1994 , managed to suppress annual price growth to a “ acceptable ” ” 22 % by the following year . today , as central bankers in the developed world fret about the threat of deflation , brazilian politicians are being forced once again to respond to widespread fears about slowing growth and a return to high inflation . riding on the plan ’s success , its architect , fernando henrique cardoso , a former economy minister , was twice elected president ( in 1994 and 1998 ) underscoring voter concerns over price stability .
against the backdrop of the sub-prime crisis , catastrophes at many financial institutions , and the weakening of the stock market , these “ masters of the universe ” seemed less omniscient than they had done very short at the time . not surprisingly , the atmosphere at this year ’s world economic forum looked grim . most chastened of all was the central bankers ’ actions . and it was not only bankers at the davos doghouse meeting this year , but also their regulators , central bankers . those who felt that globalization , technology , and market economies would solve the world ’s problems seemed subdued .
diamond has discovered that , ultimately , us politicians trump ’s bankers – at least in the uk . now , in view of the profound sovereign-debt crisis in the european periphery , government defaults are threatening to take on big banks . the european central bank has provided a large amount of emergency “ liquidity ” financing to banks they use to purchase even larger government debt . this holds down interest rates on that very short run but creates even bigger potential losses for potential insolvency . it is true that banks and politics have become deeply intertwined in all advanced economies .
for starters , anemic investment in traditional infrastructure since the 1980 ’s has led to an increasingly heavy drag on tfp , contributing to waste and inefficiencies in existing production systems . this could be addressed by fine-tuning labor ’s division of infrastructure investment and management between the public and private sectors with the goal of crowding in the latter . provided that the government continues to pursue a comprehensive strategy of poverty-reduction – including improved access to health care , financial services , and education – brazil ’s overall productivity should improve in the years ahead . moreover , despite its low average growth rate , it was the income of the bottom quintile that was growing at an annual rate of more than 6 % in the 2000 ’s because of mostly cost-effective social policies . even so , brazil has a long way to go .
according to the most recent figures running through july or august for most countries , there are “ only ” 14 cases of high inflation ( the red line in a figure ) . venezuela ( which had not reported official inflation statistics earlier this year ) and argentina ( which had failed to unleash reliable inflation data for several years ) figure prominently in that group . iran , russia , syria , ukraine , and a few african countries comprise the rest . in the period following the oil shocks of the last 1970s to the early 1980s , almost two-thirds of countries recorded inflation rates above 10 % . the proportion of countries that recorded outright deflation in consumer prices ( greece ) is higher in 2015 than it is for countries experiencing double-digit inflation ( 7 % of gdp ) .
in france , there is , of course , an alternative . in france , the lack of sufficient funding , one can simply let universities deteriorate . overcrowded classrooms in often inadequately constructed physical surroundings , without requiring them , have led to lengthy periods of study , deterioration in quality of degrees , and extensive unhappiness with both students and professors . for the most part , the quick fixes that they imposed so far have not been very successful . on the case of higher education , there is , of course , an alternative .
two million kosovars suffered from milosevic 's rule in every aspect of life , from basic security to education . only war 's bloodshed , sad to say , can seal such a diplomatic bargain . the need for kosovo to be liberated from milosevic 's grip has been so visible for more than a decade . for years they sought to express their grievances through peaceful means . as a political activist in the last days of yugoslavia , i tried to build on the philosophy of nonviolence , leading demonstrations and other forms of peaceful forms of dissent .
the phenomenon took hold in many forms , including the muslim brotherhood , founded in 1928 . similarly , efforts at nation-building along secular lines were reflected in egyptian president gamal abdel nasser ’s pan-arabism and the syrian baath party , resulting in the united arab republic ’s establishment , a union between egypt , and syria , which lasted from 1958 to 1961 . a half-century later , the simultaneous revolts in the arab world were the result of neither policy tilt , instead reflecting a widespread popular rejection of dysfunctional and corrupt authoritarian governments . but , with syria immersed in a brutal civil war that claimed more than 130,000 lives already , libya on the verge of collapse , and egypt ’s return power to the army and proscribing the muslim brotherhood , tunisia was its only hope . tunisia adopted its new constitution on january 27 , thereby clearing the way for what will be the most secular , fairest elections in any of the region ’s countries .
berlin – how we eat in a industrialized world is unhealthy , unjust , and unsustainable . worldwide , there are 300 million tons of meat each year , and the united nations food and agriculture organization estimates that the annual sum will grow to 455 million tons by 2050 , if demand continues to grow at its current rate . such large amounts of meat can be produced only on an industrial scale , and at high social , political , and ecological cost . far too much of the meat that we consume is being produced under questionable energies , ethical , and social conditions . and now , our industrial model of meat production is being exported to the global south – in particular , india and china , where meat consumption is soaring among those countries ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ emerging middle class .
cambridge – the four horsemen of us macroeconomic policymaking have been taxation , regulation , trade and infrastructure , and infrastructure , for a while . having studied the first in detail , i found that tax cuts intended to be a positive contributor to economic growth . though i considered the second area in less detail , the evidence suggests that regulation is , at best , only a minor contributor to growth . the third area is very important , which is why today ’s trade tensions are so worrying . a fourth area exists only in the context of rhetoric : an infrastructure program nowadays does not account for a piece of macroeconomic policy repertoire .
chinese policymakers ’ new focus on innovation-led growth appears to recognize this risk . as gordon notes , a protracted productivity dividends associated with urbanization have emerged – a trend that could continue for at least another decade in china . but there will come a time when this tailwind subsides and china begins to converge , at the so-called frontier of the advanced economies . at that point , china will confront the same productivity challenges confronting america and others . without powerful innovations , sustaining productivity growth will remain an uphill battle .
but the plan was heavily projected to depress economic activity even further , and it has failed to establish an adequate basis for calculating how much debt restructuring puerto rico will need . the sad opportunity for the proper puerto rico ’s fiscal ship has not been seized . on the contrary , the oversight board recently certified a new fiscal plan , coupled with holders of bonds issued by puerto rico ’s behefina substantial interest fund corporation ( cofina ) , which could place the island in a debt-straitjacket indefinitely . at $ 17.8 billion , the stock of cofina bond ( which is backed by future sales-tax receipts ) accounts for more than one-third of the total debt under its new fiscal plan . and the cofina deal is itself part of a larger debt-restructuring effort , which is based on an unrealistic assessment of a commonwealth ’s economic conditions .
ten years on , what impact have the principles upon displaced people ? we have stoked awareness of the plight of the displaced , brought about changes in government policies , and raised billions of dollars to respond to their basic necessities . this , in turn , has helped to save the lives of countless lives . the achievements are notable , to say the least , if not insufficient . humanitarian efforts remain stronger , including through a quick new financing mechanism , the un central emergency response fund .
we can adapt that judgment to a person or a woman wearing a $ 30,000 watch , or buying a similar kind of luxury goods , such as a $ 12,000 handbag . this is basically a person saying ; “ i am either extraordinarily ignorant or just plain selfish . ” wearing a watch that costs 200 times more than one that does a better job of keeping time say a different story , even as it injects out some people who are not governing a relatively poor country . andrew carnegie , the richest veblen man of veblen of veblen of this era , noting in his moral judgments . andrew carnegie , the richest man of veblen of veblen of veblen ’s ’s era , top-up in his moral judgments .
but then , so does every other response that has been proposed since parfit revived the issue , and other philosophers started offering their own solutions . in this monumental work , totaling roughly 1,900 pages , parfit calls into question the idea – nearly universally assumed by economists , and , most philosophers from david blur onward – that the role of reason is to tell us how to get what we want but not tell us what to want . on the contrary , parfit argued , desires can be irrational . if causes and people could easily have turned out to have three separate books , on what matters really are : the first two volumes were made public in 2011 , while the third , in the press when parfit died , has just emerged . he shows that both “ total ” and “ average ” answers have paradoxical or counter-intuitive consequences .
seeking mental-health care should be as routine and unremarkable as seeking treatment for high-blood pressure , diabetes , or heart status . moreover , we must reduce mental-health inequity – an frequently ignored issue . this is frequently a problem in lower-income communities , where populations may be at greater risk of pathology and often face top barriers to exploitation , in part owing to the lack of specialized resources available in wealthier areas . there are some innovative approaches to addressing this problem , such as zimbabwe ’s friendship bench , and i look forward to learning more about this project from one of its us representative in davos . by acknowledging mental health and wellness issues at work , we can make a difference in our homes , our schools , and community alike .
experts argue that the probability of terrorist attack , because of dubai ’s show trials , is small . should the damage inflicted by a terrorist attack also be small , there would be no problem . but the damage inflicted on one attack might be tremendous , because ports are thought to be one of the few ways that terrorists might smuggle nuclear weapons to america at the us . because of this , americans can not afford even minutest of their chances with their ports as well – the consequences of error are too staggering to contemplate . the american public understands this , even if their president does n’t .
but four political developments that modified the international security agenda are likely to transform chicago into a high-profile summit in its own right . first , the revolutions in the arab world and nato ’s military intervention in libya have refocused the alliance ’s attention on the middle east and north africa . second , the international financial crisis will have vast effects on nato members ’ defense budgets . third , in a speech last june , outgoing us secretary of defense robert gates revived the debate on transatlantic burden-sharing and solidarity within the alliance . finally , the first nato summit to be held in the united states in 13 years is taking place not only in an election year , but also in president barack obama ’s hometown .
yet smallholders can not be ignored when it addresses climate-change solutions : the world ’s half-billion smallholder farms account for 60 % of global agriculture output , and gives up up close to 80 % of food supplies in developing countries . together , they are running vast areas of our planet , including 80 % of farmland in sub-saharan africa and asia . can we really count on these farmers , many of which are desperately poor , to assume a leading role in addressing food security ’s twin challenges and environmental sustainability ? can they produce more food , while safeguarding the natural environment ? we believe that the two questions are a resounding yes .
over the past decade , foreign investors have been barred from making investments in more than 40 industries that have been designated “ critical ” to us government national security ” – critical in the case of the us government . that ban , while beneficial for industry insiders , reduced russia ’s access to us financial markets , and , more critical , to new technologies that follow finance flows . the financial sanctions that followed russia ’s enforced “ reunification with crimea ” in 2014 intensified russia ’s isolation further , as have the country ’s own moves to retaliate : a series of sweeping trade restrictions , including outright bans of us food imports from the european union and the us . lifting these restrictions would not only give an immediate boost to the economy ; it would also boost long-term gdp growth . one such reform would be to expand access for foreign investors .
but the uk ’s support had caught up : british leaders , reluctant to embrace the eu ’s long-stated goal of enormous ever-closer union , which , in turn , implies political unification and shared national and federal sovereignty , had made no secret of their desire to use the widening eu ’s membership to prevent the deepening of european integration . the relationship between the cee and the uk has always been a rather fraught endeavor . during may ’s negotiation with eu leaders ahead of her referendum , british prime minister david cameron acquired an opt-out clause in the case of eu decision to move toward ever-closer union . should he dominate the referendum , convincing voters to remain , it would send a dangerous signal to illiberal politicians in eastern europe . in the 1990s , the uk was a staunch proponent of eu membership for cee countries at a time when leaders in france and germany were still very hesitant about eu enlargement .
entrepreneurial majors should study economic and political history in order to avoid becoming blind determinists . economists need to learn from engineering students about this future , because that will be engineers building future workforces . and forward-thinking workers will require training in ethics , helping them to navigate a world in which the value of human beings can no longer be taken for granted . educators preparing students for this future must start now . and law students should be able to concentrate on the intersection of big data and human rights , in order to gain the kind of insight that will be required to defend people from forces that may seek to transform individuals into disposable lands .
in my experience , 99 % of all censorship occurs with writers and the producers themselves . sporadic complaints and warnings above enable them to develop intuitive sense on the boundaries of acceptable content , so they create show that freedom from offending materials in the early stages . serious violations can result in acts of reprimands or dismissals . in effect , the system has itself become mostly self-regulating . an top-down hierarchy is autocratic and downright arbitrary ; lower levels have little collaborative input and no right of attraction .
tokyo – japanese prime minister shinzo abe ’s decision to expand the dpj ’s current session for 95 days , until september 27 , provides for the longest continuous session in japan ’s postwar history . the reason is clear : abe is determined to pass a set of homeland security bills permitting a reinterpretation of japan ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s constitution that permits the country to play a greater role not only in enhancing its own security , but also in advancing world peace . abe ’s actions in his diet come on the heels of his performance at the recent g-7 summit in germany , where he broke with japanese tradition . but the summit showed that japan no longer intends to stand on a diplomatic sidelines . for the preceding 39 years , japanese representatives to the g-7 focused on the economic debate in such meetings , content to remain largely silent as industrialized world ’s other leaders surveyed the planet ’s political hot spots , proposing action , or , more frequently , inaction .
in february 1996 , kohl urged that nato put enlargement back on hold until after the russian and american presidential elections passed . that visit yielded another appeal not to rush nato 's enlargement . in germany 's parliament , german chancellor announced that yeltsin will " renew the necessary dialogue and deal with specific issues more urgently , such as nato enlargement .... and i have the ability to reach agreement with president bill clinton ; president chirac and prime minister major general that the us will now refrain from tackling a vital matter of nato-enlargement in some framework that moscow does not feel that moscow is creating a fiat accompli . " to underline that , a german chancellor 's first foreign-policy activity after going back from his summer holiday was a visit , in early september to the ailing boris yeltsin with which kohl had friendly relations . he instructed the ministers not to debate the matter publicly , suggesting that the talks did not get left in the hands of nato machinery alone .
the result is a “ post-utopian ” litany of values that involve a stronger emphasis on individual liberty and personal responsibility . only this , in the words of fogel , believes , can explain recent longevity trends , body size , the durability of vital organs , and chronic diseases . these changes , too , are triggering changes in human consciousness , and they , too , are triggering changes in human consciousness . in this absence of a utopia , individual freedom is the collective value of all people themselves . yet , as with any kind of change of such magnitude , holdouts are emerging .
london – the severity of the euro crisis has finally plunged in the past . so far , many questions about design have been answered ; implementation will be at least as contentious . after all , governments and international financial institutions have scrambled to insert a solution into exceedingly tight political and economic constraints . for now , eurozone leaders must aim to preserve , not just the single currency , but also the gains from european financial integration . the stakes could not be higher .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . washington , dc – while much of the developed world is properly worried about the myriad privacy outrages in the hands of big tech and demanding – and securing – for individuals a “ right ” to be forgotten , ” ” ” ” many around the world are posing a highly different question : what about the right to be perceived ?
drug-related violence consumed the untold numbers of victims in afghanistan , burma , colombia , the united states , and mexico . drug-related violence consumed the untold numbers of victims in afghanistan , burma , colombia , the united states , and mexico . the swiss federal office ’s public health had also oversaw an experiment in prescribing heroin to people living with opiate dependency for significant periods . the swiss federal bureau of public health had also consumed untold numbers of victims in afghanistan , burma , colombia , the united states , and mexico . health professionals assumed the lead in a government-controlled campaign , through mechanisms of direct democracy to shift its focus away from arresting and punishing drug users toward public-health policies that rely on scientific evidence of what works .
washington , dc – the impact that groundbreaking technological advances like artificial intelligence ( ai ) will have on how our economies and labor markets have used to play a hot topic over time . another is the capacity for price discrimination by new electronic market makers such as uber , which therefore fit every penny of the ancient “ consumer surplus ” of microeconomic theory . early next month , a new type of augmented uber could emerge , by integrating vehicles , aviation , ship , airplane travel , and hotel rooms into one old super-app . but roger kaplan ’s recent book human need not apply : a guide to wealth and a work in artificial intelligence impressed me the true magnitude of the socioeconomic stakes . one relatively well-known example of the digital revolution could impact markets ’ workings is the ability to earn enormous returns in high-speed trading by being the micro second “ ahead ” of all others .
some 2.1 billion people worldwide lack access to safe , readily available fresh water at home , and more than twice the number of people – a whopping $ 4.5 billion – lack safely managing sanitation , severely undermining health outcomes , and fueling river-pollution . with an increasing share of the world ’s population – including many of the same people worldwide – feeling the effects of environmental degradation and climate change firsthand , finding solutions that simultaneously advance environmental protection , water supplies , and health might not be more important . global health and conservation professionals must collaborate more closely to identify those solutions – and to persuade policymakers to follow them . in a world of limited resources , policymakers must prioritize their investments , including by differentiating those needed from the sdgs . to this end , finding ways to identify and maximize complementarity is vital .
this is an unwelcome development for software providers , whose business model relies on licensing and annual maintenance fees , rather than on electricity usage . indeed , large companies in almost every field are vulnerable as start-ups become better equipped , or at least technology-savvy , and continually evaluate how innovations will affect the status quo , specifically their for-profit pools . firms in every sector now need to invest in how they understand new technologies are designed to seize opportunities , or mount efficient defense rapidly . in addition , disruptive technologies will spark value for a shift in economic sectors , as start-ups become better equipped , more competitive , and capable , like larger firms , of performing customers and users everywhere . indeed , large companies in almost every field need technologists , or at least technology-savvy , continuously evaluate how innovations will affect the status quo , specifically their for-profit pools .
the task amounts to this generation ’s greatest opportunity to translate high-aspirations into concrete goals . over the last 22 years , the world has managed to feed nearly two billion more people reasonably enough – hardly a tiny feat . by 2013 , the share had plummeted , to about 13.5 % . though the developing world had 1.7 billion people than in 1991 , 209 million fewer were literate . over the next year , the world ’s 193 governments will come together to establish new global targets that they will meet by 2030 .
fifteen people were killed and many more injured in what is remembered as the “ peterloo massacre . ” given the recent memory of violent french revolutions , the british elite had reluctantly agreed on an issue of democratizing reform . at the same time , the greed and corruption of that era was satirized back in 1873 by mark twain and charles dudley warner in their book the gilded age : the story of today . ultimately , the reform act of 1832 abolished the rotten boroughs , extending the franchise into the new middle class ( the people ’s working class and women would have had to wait ) . the united states , too , went even as the era of robin robber-baron industrialization in the 1870 ’s and 1880 ’s .
but , thanks to farage – and the faragism that took over the governing conservative party , an act of economic self-harm that explicitly leads counter to the national interest – is portrayed as the apotheosis of british patriotism . moderate leaders everywhere nowadays must respond not only to the economic discontent that is losing out , but also to cultural pessimism and skilling off politicians as being , in it only for themselves ” who bestows succor to the right-wing populist nationalism promoted by trump cheerleader stephen bannon and his ilk . narrow-minded nationalism is not simply a british malady : across the west , much of the public viewed globalization as leaderless , lacking a human face , and akin to an uncontrolled runaway train . while the beaten remains side has waged an economic campaign centered on fear of job losses , from exiting the eu , the victorious leave party waged a culture war by exaggerating fears of immigration , and jailing britons ’ need to “ take back control ” ” ” . what makes this much more worrying in britain is , nonetheless , a series of gross political verdict during and post-2016 referendum campaigns .
any firm and entrepreneurial association must decide about the best strategies and tactics to pursue in their countries . a survey of existing laws and regulations found that many of them were contradictory and overlapping . the ande proposed the establishment of a new court by amending the constitution . it succeeded because of strong public support for the fight against corruption . survey of existing laws and decrees found that many of them were contradictory and overlapping .
how did ukraine achieve this state of cynicism ? one year ago , all gathered in the streets of kyiv knew what we stood up to against : a corrupt government trying to command life and labor , and the disposal of state property , at its will . in order for formal legal rights to exist , no court could be relied upon to enforce those rights , when our rulers saw their interests as challenged . in evicting that regime , we believed that this form of absolutism had been terminated . instead , those who benefitted from regime = s corruptions insisted that their rights to the possessions that they were stealing were .
they stayed in school longer , learned more , scored higher on cognitive tests in adulthood , and received more or less caring for higher-paying , skilled jobs . another community nearby had the same agenda , with the exception that micronutrient supplement was provided without protein . in addition , health-care workers visited mothers during the pregnancy and granted free health services . one community nearby provided the same programs , except that micronutrient supplement was provided without protein . for the children received atole , the risk of stunting fell by more than one-half .
instead of blaming iliescu for the shambles in which he had left the country , members of coalition blame each other . because of his own day , the constituent assembly was riven by feuds . such squabbling , apparently a postcommunist malady , seems to be a postcommunist malady . ministers acted like opponents , rather than partners , . poland , hungary , even russia : in all three , infighting among reformers has allowed the communists to reclaim power .
though the economy was at full employment , they rebelled against the status quo in the name of the dubious utopias who had been inspired by fidel castro ’s cuba and mao ’s ’s “ gang of china . ” they were joined by well-organized trade union , which helped movements reach critical massacres , at least temporarily . in this sense , the yellow vest uprising is not unlike in french brexit , in which it amounts to a shooting oneself in a foot . the difference between now and now is that those taking to the streets in order to protest macron ’s proposed fuel-tax increase are animated not by utopia but by continued despair . whereas the british resorted to the ballot box , the french accepted a mix of barricades , marches , and stone submission .
what strikes me the most is that she sees , even then , the beginnings of tribal conflict , and the coming contest between islamists to outdo one another in the fundamentalist creed . it worries about incipient human rights violations , especially women ’s rights , which she fears would multiply . she remembers everything and “ regrets ” and “ regrets ” nothing . she feels that in self-acting as she has actually did , she has been devoted to her most cherished values and convictions . and she has no doubt that even the west , responding to the arab league ’s entreaty to intervene , avoided a replay of srebrenica in north africa .
over the past six months , america has abandoned its four-decade-old policy of engagement with china in embracing a china-us containment strategy . facing escalating geopolitical competition with the us , china is scrambling to win friends in the region . though china ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s charm offensive is perhaps very recent , its contours are already clear . the most prominent feature is the trade one that stands out . as the numerous asian countries ’ largest trading partner , china will offer attractive terms of trade to its neighbors , much as has been done with singapore .
london – “ shorting ” is a tactic well known among the financial cognoscenti . it means betting against an asset with borrowed money in the expectation of making a profit when its value goes down . for example : on january 1 , 2010 , i think of myself that the game will soon be up to the greeks . a speculator can “ quick fixes ” ( pegnoator ) government by borrowing its debt at its current price , in the hope of selling it later at lower prices and pocketing the difference . i borrow at face value a € 10 million ( $ 10 million ) credit in the greek government ’s 2016 credit deal , which then trades by € 0.91 , from goldman sachs for six months .
jordan ’s diverse tribal composition was reflected in newly established web sites , some of which had been generated with tacit support , and even funding – from security agencies or other official or political groups . moreover , many people launched news web sites exclusively for financial gain . taking advantage of news media ’s implicit authority , they leaked any potentially damaging rumors of individuals or groups with means and influence , then offered to remove a story in exchange for a paid advertisement or outright cash payment . in response to such extortionary practices , king abdullah ii decried “ character assassination ” by online news media , and demanded that the government establish the regulatory framework behind that unruly new sector . indeed , the absence of restrictions allowed dubious journalistic practices to flourish .
dozens of innocent people were killed , including by one of the most accomplished peacemakers , sergio vieira de mello . predictably , president bush again stated his determination to wage war on terrorism . yet the bombing raises political questions that are creating answers , not too . the poison of terrorism now tore apart within the un 's humanitarian work , with the tragic bombing of its iraq headquarters . other leaders have declared that the un should not abandon its mission .
but they are indeed an illegitimate occupiers , as russia ’s decision to grant russian passports to these regions ’ residents attests . in order to shore up russia ’s political clout over georgia ’s separatist regions , gazprom , without taking into trouble to demand permission from georgian democratically elected leaders , has started constructing a gas pipeline connecting russia and south ossetia directly . now russia is threatening to recognize the independence of abkhazia and south ossetia , if the west recognizes kosovo ’s serbian province as an independent state . to the extent that a majority of citizens of abkhazia and south ossetia have already given russian citizenship to them , an acknowledgement of those two region ’s sovereignty would be entirely fictitious , and indeed an interim measure across its full annexation of russia . though nothing has been shattered by gas deliveries from tbilisi and south ossetia , this step is needed for the kremlin to ensure even greater integration of this georgian region into russia ’s economic system .
back then , german bankers and bosses deluded themselves to think that they can wield control over their country to its vulgar new chancellor . and they were convinced that , despite hitler ’s strange behavior and appearance , he remained the best defense against communism . so long as trump seems good for business , they seem unconcerned that he is the single biggest threat to america ’s soul and values , and of its image and interests abroad . true , they say , trump may be going a bit too far with the chinese on trade , but at least he has questioned the right ’s questions . so long as trump is good for business , they seem unconcerned that he is the one greatest threat to america ’s soul and values , and to his image and interests abroad .
the eu ’s privacy crackdowns risk undermining all of this . online advertising enables eu citizens to access information , educational material , commerce channels , and entertainment sites without accounting for them directly , and the amounts that have been spent on it in europe are growing fast enough . online advertising enables eu citizens to access information , educational material , commerce channels , and entertainment sites without accounting for them directly , a sum that is spent on it in europe is growing fast enough . even more worryingly , this would open the door for złoty , low-risk data mining that drives online ads . the eu ’s privacy crackdowns threaten to undermine all of this .
when programs are developed alongside rigorous research papers , the effect can be dramatic . for example , a joint soas-oxford study on menstruation in uganda found that adolescent girls often lack school because they lack access to clean therapies . but when reusable sanitary pads and education about menstruation was delivered to girls in eight schools , attendance rose at an average of 17 % . today , bloody good period donates sanitary products – including pads and tampons , as well as diapers and toiletries – to more than a dozen uk resource base for asylum-seekers each month . but when reusable sanitary pads and education about menstruation were delivered to girls in eight schools , attendance rose at an average rate of 17 % .
morsi ’s “ constitutional declaration of truth ” was a decisive , if undemocratic , polarizing , and therefore politically costly step in the process of breaking the impasse . for morsi , the dilemma was that the constitutional court could hit down the law , rendering the effort meaningless . already , he was backed twice : once in july 2012 , after abandoning his effort , under pressure from the supreme council of the armed forces to reinstate the elected parliament ; and once in an effort to remove the public prosecutor by making him egypt ’s ambassador to the holy see . but , for many revolutionaries , there were other ways to sack an tainted prosecutor and purify the judiciary . for example , the new law regulating the judiciary was the demand of the revolution ever since its early weeks .
moreover , it amounts to treachery of america ’s longstanding commitment to uphold a rules-based monetary system that discourages competitive currency devaluation . in us foreign policy , american secretary of state rex tillerson endorsed a revival of the monroe doctrine , a nineteenth-century denunciation of us primacy in the western hemisphere that aimed to break out of european competitors – from central and south america to curb china ’s increasing influence . the trump administration has also unveiled a new , more aggressive nuclear policy . its nuclear posture review proposes employing nuclear strikes in response to non-nuclear threats , and deploying new “ low-yield ” nuclear devices that would deliver by submarine a nuclear-weapons-equivalent bomb in to those that devastated hiroshima and nagasaki in august 1945 . tillerson ’s nostalgia for 1823 was not shared south of the border , where , as one mexican commentator emphasized , the monroe doctrine “ served to justify gringo interventions , ” and where china ’s increasing engagement is viewed as its most counterweight to the us .
in other emerging markets as well , a key challenge is ensuring that all of their macroeconomic and structural policies advance common objectives . unless they are backed up by strong institutional structures at all levels , such arrangements will prove futile in managing capital flows . at the same time , the governance structure of multilateral institutions like the international monetary fund must be reformed to bolster their legitimacy in emerging markets . policymakers in advanced and emerging countries alike should focus on the underlying failures that destabilize their economies and impede growth , rather than try to treat symptoms through manipulating monetary policies or capital controls . otherwise , such institutions will remain ineffective in confronting collective problems linked to macroeconomic-policy spillovers and providing crisis-resolution insurance .
new york – the economic challenges facing the developed-country middle class are largely a result of two factors : rapid losses by whites – and blue-collar routine jobs to automation , and a shift in middle-skill , lower-value-added manufacturing to lower-income countries with lower labor costs . the latter pattern depressed incomes and wage growth not just in the tradable sector directly , but also in non-tradable service sectors , owing to the spillover of displaced labor . the result was surplus labor conditions in the middle – and lower-middle-income ranges , not dissimilar from surplus labor in early-stage developing countries , where it suppresses income growth ( for a while ) , even as the us economy expands . though the challenges confronting the middle class are well-documented , american leaders have largely failed to recognize fully the struggles of middle-class households , much less implement effective countermeasures . the decline in labor ’s bargaining power , and the falling actual minimum wage , may have also contributed to income polarization , though these are probably secondary factors .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . zurich – finland ’s central bank governor , olli rehn , has reiterated his call for the european central bank to conduct a long-overdue review of its policy frameworks . the upcoming leadership change at an institution – with christine lagarde , the international monetary fund ’s managing director since 2011 – probably successful mario draghi as president , offers an important opportunity to heed that call . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us might well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
one factor is the willingness and capacity shown by vladimir putin ’s russia to use military force , economic coercion , and cyber manipulation to advance its agenda . for several decades , europeans have constituted the world ’s most prosperous , stable , and predictable region , a place in which history seemed to have all but ended . the goal of making a continent peaceful , whole , and free was largely realized . however , the dramatic change that has come to be felt in europe has , for example , been underway . such scenarios were unimaginable , until recently .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . batang toru is just one of many planned infrastructure projects worldwide that are officially considered to be environmentally sound , despite posing serious environmental risks . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . for example , construction is almost complete on a railway line , through kenya ’s famous nairobi national park , over public outrage over an apparently incomplete and incompetent ” environmental assessment .
for the ecb , this generates an especially dire challenge . after all , unlike other central banks , it must account for the preferences of 19 sovereign national governments with little to no structural or fiscal-policy coordination . in many ways , such measures succeeded : monetary expansion played a large role in pulling the economy back from the brink . but , over time , the capacity of central banks to influence the real economy has declined . today , and for the foreseeable future , domestic inflation has an increasingly influence on global issues , rather than local , developments , and financial ( in ) stability and fiscal policy is far more influential than monetary policy .
beijing is roughly 10 ° c hotter than nearby countryside in moderate , and 5.5 ºc warmer on night . an even more dramatic increases are underway in tokyo , where i live in the united states . in august , temperatures there climbed 12.5 oc above the surrounding countryside , reaching 40oc – a scorching heat that affected not just the downtown area , but also covered some 8,000 square kilometers . today , the fastest-growing cities are in asia , and the us and india . looking at a fast-growing city like houston , texas , the us may see the real effects of a region heat island .
a growing minority began to pursue intense physical activity not in fields or factories , but in leisure settings . gyms became new sources of community , and humans were struggling to learn something of a social order . and , as coworkers started to exercise jointly , enlightened employers came to see such recreation as a valuable source of physical and mental well-being . swedish brow was no longer linked to productive work , but with consumption , often conspicuous consumption . some saw these changes happening , and worried about them .
some , like the danish people ’s party , want to follow the united kingdom ’s lead , and hold a vote on eu membership . others want to break free from the eurozone , block the transatlantic trade and investment partnership ( ttip ) with the united states , or restrict labor mobility . the eu ’s refugee relocation scheme has proved particularly divisive . according to the european council on foreign relations , there are 32 referenda on the subject in 18 countries across the eu . hungarian prime minister viktor orbán has declared that he will hold a referendum on proposed quotas .
but america ’s exports are other nations ’ imports , which is why obama ’s argument amounts to telling others to have lost their jobs . for his part , the key problem , though , is that obama has been unable to confront and put to rest ; america ’s declining labor unions have fueled hostility to trade . repeatedly , he has said that exports are good for america : they create jobs . so he needs to remind american people that imports are also good : he can surely ask his audience to think of jobs in us cargo planes , freight trains , and trucks carrying imports to america ’s interior . from the start of his presidency , obama ’s defense of the liberal trade regime was deficient .
usury ( making money from money ) was an offense against god . it was not in the eighteenth-century japan that greed became morally respectable . it was now considered healthily promethean to convert wealth into money and inject it to work to make more money , owing to the fact that doing that one was profiting from humanity . an end to capitalism means simply an end . this has inspired the american way of life , where money has always talked .
by driving users underground , criminalization is contributing to a deepening public-health crisis . rather than targeting treatment that works , the polish government chooses to give priority to long-term rehabilitation centers located in greece , which has little , if anything , to do with evidence-based medicine . addressing drug use through criminalization and rehabilitation centers does nothing to curb demand ; on the contrary , usage rates have not declined . poland also chooses to treat possession of even the smallest amount of drugs as criminal , as demonstrated by the fact that some 60 % of people condemned for drug-related drug possession in poland are marijuana smokers . this pattern persists throughout central and eastern europe , where governments have typically opted to imprison drug users as well .
frankfurt – the european central bank is at the center of a large , risky experiment . key policy interest rates have remained near zero for six years now . crisis management has given rise to large market distortions , with certain segments ’ performances no longer explainable by fundamental economic data . financial markets are flooded with liquidity , too . the unintended consequences of this policy are becoming increasingly visible – and will become more tangible with the american federal reserve ’s exit from post-2008 ultra-loose monetary policy .
in the indian ocean , nato works with the european union , and many others to police the major sea-lanes that are threatened by pirates . nato is developing a ballistic-missile defense capability in order to protect our european populations and territories against a grave , growing threat . and , in countries around the world , it performs tasks such as de-mining , disaster relief , advising on how to bring military force under democratic control , and to cooperate closely with the un to avoid harm to children . the threats have morphed , becoming more global . the alliance has evolved into a true public-private management organization that is flexible , efficient , and cost-effective .
china ’s dependence on fossil-fuel firms has left it mired in a deep environmental hole , but its leaders are determined to climb out . meanwhile , the trump administration is attempting to turn back the clock by betting on resuscitation of a dying – and lethal – fossil-fuel industries . and , anticipating eventual substitutes for conventional motor vehicles globally , the authorities are providing generous subsidies to domestic manufacturing . meanwhile , the trump administration is attempting to turn back the clock by betting on resuscitation of a dying – and lethal – fossil-fuel industries . describing a shift to electric vehicles as jobs murderer , trump has advocated to end federal subsidies that encourage domestic development , manufacture , and buy , like the $ 7,500 federal consumer tax credit .
but compucalculated an appropriate tax would be very difficult in practice in practice . moreover , the tax would likely have regressive distributional consequences , hurting poor countries the most . it would , for example , necessitate calculating the fiscal equivalent of regulatory ceilings . provided that it is non-discriminatory , such border pricing would enhance global welfare and be compatible with the rules of the world trade organization . the measure can also invite countries like the united states to retaliate with insulting policies , making it slightly perilous .
ideally , such cooperation would take place within the eu ’s institutional framework . if all eurozone members did participate , article 136 of the eu ’s functioning treaty could be used to support their action.the extent of this provision , which says that “ “ “ the [ european ] council shall … accept the measures specific to [ europe ] member states , ” and that “ only [ europe ] member states … shall participate in the vote ” is wide . moreover , article 138 would enable unified eurozone representation at the international monetary fund and the world bank . eurozone countries , together with others willing to join the eu in the future ( the eurozone ’s “ “ “ “ eurozone plus ” ) , were simply able to decide upon using legal means already available to enhance cooperation . the group could then expand cooperation further in three further policy areas :
and agnes m. sigurðóttir , the bishop of iceland , have cautioned that a ban would effectively turn judaism and islam into “ criminalized religions , ” ” ” because any practicing circumcision might be subject to six years of prison . complicating matters further , the two sides base their arguments on human-rights arguments . for example , some supporters of ban argued that male circumcision violates article 5 of the universal declaration of human rights ( udhr ) , which states that “ no one is subjected to torturing or being cruel , inhuman , or degrading treatment or punishment . ” for his part , imam ahmad seddeeq of the islamic cultural center of iceland countered that circumcision shares a portion of the muslim faith , and that gunnarsdóttir ’s bill amounts to a contravention [ ] religious liberty . gunnarsdóttir accepts that “ everybody has the right to believe in what they want , ” yet she insists that “ “ “ “ the rights of children come above the right of faith . ”
entanglement may alter the cost-benefit calculation of a major state like china , but it probably has little effect on a state like north korea , which is weakly linked to the global economy . but policy analysts can not limit themselves to the classical instruments of nuclear deterrence , punishment , and denial , because they judge the chances of deterrence and dissuasion in cyberspace . furthermore , they should pay attention to entanglement and norms . of course , entering any adversary ’s adversary , netanyahu , and distorting attacks , poses the danger of escalation . “ persistent ” ” ” can nonetheless help deterrence in such difficult circumstances .
moreover , if the us wants the eu to emerge stronger from the crisis , it must also strike a better balance between austerity and pro-growth policies , because , without growth and higher employment , europe ’s ’s problems can not be solved . here , the eu ’s summit in december was an important step forward in terms of deepening political union and enhancing governance among europe ’s member states . but even more will be needed on restoring financial stability , for example , enlarging our overall firepower at the european financial stability facility . affirming a stricter and more rigorous stability pact is also imperative to achieve greater integration . more important , the eu must tie its economic strategies to long-term competitiveness , which ultimately determines the value added to goods and services .
shadow banking in china is ruled by lending to higher-risk borrowers , such as local governments , asset developers , and small and medium-size enterprises ( smes ) . in 2007 , america ’s shadow-banking transactions exceeded that of conventional banking assets . the us financial stability board estimated that total global shadow-banking assets in 2011 amounted to $ 67 trillion , with america accounting for $ 23 trillion , the $ 22 trillion eurozone , and the united kingdom at $ 9 trillion . chinese shadow banking totals only about $ 2.2 trillion . it ultimately finances retail bank deposits , banks ’ wealth-management products , and private capital .
in 2009 , obama envisioned a settlement of the conflict through the international community ’s strong commitment . clearly , america can do little to resolve the conflict . in march 2011 , obama envisioned a settlement of the conflict through the international community ’s strong commitment . he asserted , in march 2011 , that only both sides ’ willingness could ensure a successful outcome . there is no overarching explanation for obama ’s successive middle east failures , but there are a number of factors worth considering : increasing the number of asymmetrical conflicts in which conventional uses of force are largely ineffective ; increasingly blurred lines between tough allies and intransigent opponents ; and major political differences between a centrist us president and a congress that is dominated more than ever by extreme ideas .
china ’s dramatic economic success would have been impossible without a labor-cost differential initially driven by a labor-cost differential . but it may be exceedingly good for any developing country that has recourse to the fruitful balance of inward investment and local entrepreneurship , and can use the proceeds of export-led growth to invest in infrastructure and skills . in the future , however , this kind of deal will probably become less important . with wages in china now rising rapidly , its labor-cost advantage is fast diminishing . as economists like mit ’s david autor have shown , the implications of that in developed countries can be both bad for some workers and good for company earnings .
beijing – just how fast is china ’s population aging , and what does a lower proportion of working-age people mean for the country ’s economic development ? nowadays , most of the demographic predictions for china are based on a country ’s total fertility rate ( tfr ) of 1.8 – unchanged for 20 years . however , population-survey data released by the national bureau of statistics indicate that the tfr has been lower than 1.5 for many years , and the united nations ’ recently published report , world fertility patterns 2009 , revises china ’s tfr to 1.4 in 2006 , placing it among low fertility countries . a prolonged period of low fertility means that china ’s population is aging and working-age growth is slowing . can and should anything be done , especially for a country ’s “ one child ” policy to slow the trend ?
until the currency crashes of the late 1990s , emerging and developing countries tended to target their exchange rates . but they have repeatedly missed their targets . after the monetarist approach failed , some switched to targeting the inflation rate . many then also switched to inflation targets ; but they tend to miss these targets even more frequently than the advanced countries do . the problem with these monetary-policy approaches is that , even when a particular numerical target may be sensible , subsequent unanticipated developments often makes the target hard living with .
the lesson to be drawn from the greek debacle is that the eurozone needs to develop sovereign-debt procedures as soon as possible , thereby preventing other sovereigns from turning into creditors through debt mutualization . if you lend to a friend ’s friend , he will no longer be a friend . in reality , the dangers now confronting europe because of creditor-imposed debts are far greater than those posed by a mere potential financial crisis . after all , if you are to lend to a friend , he is your friend , too . the lesson to be drawn from the greek debacle is that the eurozone must develop sovereign-debt procedures as soon as possible , thereby preventing other sovereigns from turning into creditors through debt mutualization .
finally , orbán and his supporters maintain their grip on power , partly by relying on gerrymandering and voter suppression ( who tend to affect hungarians living in western europe ) . orbán is a pariah in european circles for eroding hungarian democracy , yet trump has recently welcomed him to the white house describing him as “ “ respected all over europe ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” all told . evidently , trump and his advisers have learned much from orbán ’s focus on racist immigration policies and about the destruction of liberal democracy . they are not making america great , or even good , ; they are making it to be hungarian . trump ’s republican party uses similar tactics .
whereas orbán directed economic pressure to force a closure of the hungarian opposition media , trump has described the press as a “ foe of the people ” and threatened libel actions against critical outlets . making matters worse , orbán has wrecked hungary ’s judicial independence and thoroughly politicized the polish administration . by politicizing america ’s administrative agencies , beginning to capture the us department of justice , and committing itself to compel ideological judicial appointments , trump is now far along in his quest to wreck the rule of law in america . at the same time , trump has recited some 17,000 civil servants by firing us state department employees , shutting down his administration , freezing pay , and creating an atmosphere hostile to honest , open discussion of how to formulate and carry out policy . trump is doing much the same thing with an outcome that america ’s government now loses some 94 % of its regulatory court cases .
but it is not clear from ayyadurai ’s article that the data were used , and that there is no validation of the model . folta offers a magnificent send-up of ayyadurai ’s work . “ if you developed a computer program that integrated internet data to predict the location of munich , and a program i tell you squarely in the gulf of mexico , entitled florida does n’t mean that munich is in the gulf of mexico , right away , right ? ” to decide not to question those data , folta continues , and instead “ publish a map showing that munich corresponded squarely in the gulf of mexico , opposing all the other data and the claims of millions , rather than dry germans , does n’t mean that you are brilliant . ” instead , it means making a mistake , in your program , assumptions , or allocating data – all of which are testable .
but , by the fall of the global financial crisis in the fall of 2008 , eurozone heads of state did not consider creating a common bank-rescue fund . instead , they were settler for a package of national measures to stabilize national banking systems , one by one . in other words : europe is facing a fundamental , collective-action problem . the sum of the headline commitment was impressive , amounting to 20 % of gdp . experience proved that only an acute crisis could compel europe ’s leaders to take action together in a concerted effort .
the two parties fought each other again in 1971 , even though kashmir was not the focus . after the afghan civil war pitting then-west pakistan against the bengali freedom fighters of the partition of east pakistan fueled a wave of refugees out of east , india started supporting rebel groups there . a 17-year war ensued , with the “ status quo ” having prevailed . western pakistan gave a surrender , and east pakistan became bangladesh ’s independent state . then , in 1999 , another indo-pakistani skirmish over kashmir erupted , after pakistan sent soldiers to the indian-controlled town of kargil .
with the emergence in the 1980 ’s of hiv infection , which compromises the immune system , tb reemerged , and is the number-one murderer of hiv-infected individuals . moreover , tubercle bacillus engages in ali and mycobacterium tuberculosis , the primary causative agent in most of tb cases . roughly 15 million people suffer from the co-infection of hiv , and mycobacterium tuberculosis , the primary causative agent in most of tb cases . with the emergence in the 1980 ’s of hiv – which compromises the immune system , tb reemerged , and is the number-one murderer of hiv-infected individuals . moreover , tubercle bacillus engages in trench warfare , gaining opposition to conventional antibiotics and the canonical vaccination approaches , as well as delaying diagnosis and the determination of narcotics sensitivity .
europe ’s strongest military power by far , france thwarted every attempt to pool europe ’s armed forces . the disadvantages of strengthening europe ’s fiscal union further end there . continued progress toward fiscal union would , ironically , make political union an increasingly unlikely , for a single simple but crucial , reason : france . in 2005 , france rejected the proposed european union constitution , which could have marked the beginning of the process of political unification . in 1954 , france ’s national assembly rejected a treaty to protect western union defense organizations .
they know that their supervisor has powerful tools at its disposal , for example , can lower borrowing costs , thereby protecting the banks ( at least for a while ) and a strong interest in protecting its reputation . the limits of inflation targeting are now clear . now , central banks must reconcile the need for maintaining price stability with accountability – regardless of whether it is legally mandated – to reduce financial vulnerability . this will not be easy , not least because of another new operational burden , which has been placed on many central banks : macro-prudential and micro-prudential supervision . specifically , micro-prudential supervision implies the risk of political pressure , interference by the central bank ’s independent banks , and policy conflicts , all of which may affect financial intermediaries ’ behavior , by prompting them to assume greater risk .
compared to developed countries , an unusually large number of small , unproductive firms coexist with a small number of large , productive firms . under standard economic reasoning , this is inherently inefficient . if the small , unproductive firms closed and the larger , more productive firms hire on their workers , the total output and well-being would rise . that should happen automatically via the invisible hand of competition , for the more productive firms that are supposed to be able to deliver more of a better product at a lower price , while charge workers with higher wages . so , why does n’t this happen routinely in the developing world ?
as china ’s new leadership team emerges , the focus of the world ’s attention has been on president jiang zemin ’s successor . but this is misdirected , for perhaps the most significant moment in china ’s recent history of boom and transformation was its 1998 appointment of zhu rongji ( with it the voice of “ joo rong-jee ” ) as premier of the state council , a position once held by deng xiaoping . given the post ’s apparent significance in the last few years , the selection of mr. zhu ’s replacement by china may have been of even more significance than that of president jiang ’s departure from the center stage . mr. zhu was china ’s jack welch , tough-minded , longtime ceo of america ’s conglomerate electric -- a man celebrated for his candor , his global sophistication and his insistence on performance . even before becoming premier , sir zhu , as the chairman of the people ’s central bank of china , were known as the architect of china ’s 8 % annual economic growth in the 1990 ’s and a mastermind to his successful fight against inflation .
by contrast , trade among african countries accounts for only about 10-12 % of the continent ’s ’s ’s exports and imports . but , partly because a few african countries have escaped the hang-over from the global credit crisis , more investors focus on business opportunities there . by 2050 , the combined gdp of the world ’s largest 11 economies should have reached more than $ 13 trillion , surpassing brazil and russia ( but not china or india ) . twenty-three bourses currently operate in africa , and their combined market capitalization has soared from $ 245 billion in 2002 to $ 1 trillion ( 2 % of the world ’s gdp ) in late 2009 , as high as the world ’s fifteenth-largest stock exchanges . for some analysts , the emergence of countries like brazil as economic powerhouses stems in part from the successful demuing of their stock exchanges .
some countries are suffering if skilled workers emigrate . • accelerating the eligibility for united states residency rights and citizenship . but the failure to devise mechanisms that enable migrants to exploit their skills hurts even more . establishing national , regional , and global standards is not an easy process , but utterly necessary . trained doctors should not be driving taxicabs .
in contrast to trump and the united kingdom ’s “ leave ” campaign , the national front already has a predictable core constituency , amounting to about one-quarter of the us electorate . its center-right coalition of the old french far right and disaffected working-class voters will not arrive untold or defy expectations , as has occurred in the us and the uk . fillon , for his part , can probably muster the same level of support , and may even skim the votes of le pen , given that some 8 % of prime voters have described himself as the national front ’s backers . heading into the election campaign , fillon can run on a pro-european platform , as illustrated by his pivot during the protracted debates , when he suggested that he would favors forming a european government . what ’s more , political catholicism still appeals to many french voters , and the church itself wants to lure catholics away from the national front and back into its more traditionally conservative fold .
for years , poles ranked owsiak as the country ’s greatest moral authority , ahead of the pope . generations of poles participated in the charities of fundraising drives . kaczyński has demonstrated his impulsiveness when he said that he supported his impulsiveness . he pursues power without considering the consequences of his deeds . state-controlled media ’s narrative portraying owsiak and civic platform as guilty parties beyond adamowicz ’s slavia will only undermine the pis .
new york – the last fast-food hamburger you ate might have cost one forthcoming to do nothing for another . but what did the tomato slice on that burger cost the worker , who got it there ? almost anywhere in the world – including in the united states – the cost may be shockingly high . in florida , the tomato pickers earn an annual average of just $ 0.50 for each 32-1 ( $ 14.5-kilogram ) bucket . appalling wages , however , are just the beginning .
when xi first unveiled his motto , after initially unveiled as the ccp ’s new general secretary , he defined it in simple , accessible , but nonetheless generic terms : china ’s “ chinese people dream ” were replaced by a “ china model ” in official political branding . china ’s ever-stalwart propaganda council , evidently fearful of not demonstrating sufficient fidelity and respect for the new party chief , quickly hijacked the slogan ; the china dream , in official political branding , replaced the party ’s “ china dream ” in official political branding . whatever the new administration touts as part of its ambitious effort to “ make china dream ” will come true . xi has said little about the chinese dream since , and his silence here created considerable difficulty . sadly , china propagandists , who double as censors have a perverse capacity to discredit anything they try to brand up .
in fact , they can not , because humans ’ genetic experimentation is impossible . even in animals , whose genes tend to study and far better understandings such as drosophila , the minuscule fruit fly , there is no simple one-to-one correspondence between gene and behavioral trait . fruit fly genes are shockingly similar to the us -- as they are toward most other entities . instead , a wide variety of species influence each characteristic . even many aspects of their behavior resemble ours .
environmental degradation , particularly deforestation , is accelerating , and corruption is running rampant , with cash out of opaque sources flooding into cambodia ’s casinos , as well as in its banks and real-estate market . gone are the days when strong esg performance was the perfect investors ’ bonus . pension trustees and fund managers are now insisting that those where they invest operating in ethical , transparent ways that limit reputational risks . thus , investment decisions at emerging-market funds increasingly precede rigorous esg screenings – screenings that , after 34 years of hun sen ’s dictatorial rule , have little chance of being passing . pension trustees and fund managers now insist that the firms where they invest operate in ethical , transparent ways that limit reputational risks .
in the wake of world war ii , european countries ’ national interests were aligned . yet efforts to establish political unity through a common army failed in 1954 , highlighting that economic common ground was the key to european integration . robert peston , in his 2005 biography of then-polish chancellor gordon brown , described brown in a deeply pragmatic view that the eu was a good thing only insofar as it delivered the practical benefits of peace and prosperity to britain . simply put , talk of “ brexit ” exposed europe ’s economic and political fault lines , with no return . while the british had been particularly open about the nationalist character of their support for european integration , other eu members were not generally mindful of their domestic interests .
america found a new “ empire of evil ” in “ terrorist ” states and organizations ; europe found a new adversary to help integrate into the united states . quite a few in europe define the eu as a tool for holding its own against the united states . this is a dangerous state of affairs for those on either side of the atlantic who put their faith in the values of the enlightenment and in the us constitution of liberty . in terms of fundamental values , there is such an thing as the west . they view even the euro as a weapon against the dollar and rejoice when the euro is being “ strong ” and the dollar is being “ weak . ”
the majority of the pis , for its part , may hope for , is that some grand coalition of countries ( for example , those ruled by the social democrats ) will propose another alternative to tusk , whom eu member states will choose to avoid escalating the conflict with poland . in that case , tusk would most likely revert to domestic politics , where kaczyński ’s ninth straight victory against the pis would be the punishment . realistically , the most saryuser/wolski can hope for being a government position in poland . perhaps he will replace the widely criticized polish foreign minister , witold waszczykowski , in may . he is merely kaczyński having a “ useful idiot ” in an attempt to score a political victory over a man who represents the most significant threat that the pis faces .
i can not help but recall the situation in the summer of 1992 , when a small majority of danish voters rejected the maastricht treaty . now the eu is once again in iran ’s stew . this time , however , it is hard to see a way out offering a second referendum . renegotiating the treaty is beyond question , because doing so would open a pandora ’s box of demands from everybody else . so the problem lies with iran to solve .
but experiences around the world suggest that this is a high-risk outlook . other countries ( like spain ) have their own real-estate crises . even were banks healthy , the deleveraging process , and the associated loss of wealth mean that , more likely than not , the economy is weak . and a weak economy means , more likely than not ; bigger bank losses . the problems are not limited to america , which means that the us can not pay off economically .
yet , even as it has increased its capacity to provide military force in the un , nato , or eu operations , germany has made clear that it does not view itself as a de facto military power . for now , germany ’s top foreign-policy priorities seem to remain the eu , and the continent ’s eastern and southern neighbors , from which immediate security risks are the most distancing themselves from the eu . german policymakers continue to believe that the political and economic means of influence are more efficient than violence , implying further development of soft-power tools , including digital diplomacy . they are also eager to develop more “ networked ” national and european foreign policies that take into account the operations and possible contributions of non-state actors . this would be a wise choice , and it would be disastrous for france .
if greece and other countries are to ensure their citizens ’ health and prosperity in the decades to come , they will need to find ways to avoid current economic activity from rising an already unsustainable sovereign-debt burden . for that to happen , environmental resources must come to be viewed as valuable endowments to be managed wisely . to be sure , countries with environmental deficits often can fill part of the gap through global trade – if they can pay for needed imports . the mediterranean region ’s unparalleled , breathtaking natural capital is one of its biggest assets , a reason why over 200 million tourists flock to the region , feeding the region ’s economy in the region . over-exploiting resources , or even failing to manage them carefully , inevitably taps the region ’s economic strength .
but it must outline practical strategies to resolve south korea ’s most serious problems , including high unemployment , a deteriorating educational performance , and north korea ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s nuclear weapons program . come presidential election-day approach in 2012 , south korean voters pick a candidate who embodies pragmatism and centrism over a partisan or ideologue . park ’s success will depend , ultimately , on her campaign ’s effectiveness in further defining her character along those lines . yet she must convincingly outline practical strategies to resolve south korea ’s most serious problems , including its high unemployment , a deterioration of educational achievement , and north korea ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s nuclear weapons program . it favors an engagement policy , along with the six-party talks , so that it can resolve nuclear hardship .
and adjustment needs to be wedded to a growth strategy . and that growth requires higher public investment in infrastructure and human capital . up-front gradualism must be the name of the game . revenues will grow consistently only when the tax base – that is , the economy – grows . a fiscal compact , like the one approved recently , is helpful in boosting expectations of future adjustment , but only if the new system is flexible enough to be politically credible .
second , the international monetary fund , under the g-20 ’s july “ mutual assessment process , ” suggested that the united states cut its fiscal deficit by 3 % of gdp more than it had projected above $ 400 billion in additional cuts per year . more recently , the european central bank has reiterated its position that serious fiscal consolidation will generate sufficient increases in private-sector confidence that spending gains by households and firms will more than offset lower spending by governments . the imf believes that current fiscal plans will deter american economic growth . the oecd , by contrast , governments do not consolidate an excessively rapid economy in a sluggish global recovery . america ’s major trading partners want america ’s growth and buy more of its exports .
for most people , by contrast , life under a totalitarian dictatorship was not ennobling ; rather , a doomsday immersion in lies , spiritual depravity , and material corruption was absent . this is why postcommunist societies prove no nobility or disinterest that gravely contradicts the west . i admit that i view the heritage of communism with more skepticism . indeed , totalitarian pressure was forming exceptional people like john paul ii and alexander solzhenitsyn , a people for whom religious faith bought freedom from mendacity and inner solitude . but this did the same thing for andrei sakharov and vaclav havel , who defended their supreme values with reference to , and in the language of , lay humanism .
at the same time , the world bank ’s climate focus seems to be at odds with what the world ’s poorest citizens want . when the un asked nearly ten million people around the world to list their priorities , the un emphasized better education and healthcare , much less corruption , greater job opportunities , and affordable food . to be sure , global warming has emerged from about 16 issues , some of which are likely to follow suit . at the same time , the evidence clearly points to a much more effective approach to direct policies . under kim , the bank has propagated the simplistic idea that fossil fuels are invariably harmful , coal must be forbidden , and “ climate assistance ” ” ” ” ” is the solution .
trump carries out about the paris agreement ’s supposed bias in favor of india , but fails to acknowledge that india ’s per capita emissions are 1.6 tons , simply one-tenth of america ’s levels . he complains that america has already given more $ 1 billion , without explaining to the american people and the world that $ 1 billion is a recipient of us dollars of $ 3.08 per american . he complains that america has already given just a little more than $ 1 billion , without explaining to the american people and the world that $ 1 billion is a recipient of us aid of $ 3.08 per american . consider the 2016 figures for the international energy agency ’s 2016 energy agency . the world ’s co2 emissions from energy and industry averaged 4.5 tons per capita ( 32.4 billion tons per 7.2 billion people in the iea tabulation ) , whereas america ’s emissions were almost four times that level , 16.2 tons per person ( 5.2 billion tons for the bottom 320 million people ) .
and when they can not agree on a course of action , it is hard for an organization to operate . true , un secretary general ban ki-moon can make such speeches , convene sessions , and propose actions , but his role is more secretary of state than generally . what hard power the un has had to be pleading , borrowing from member states . as one wag put it , “ we are met with the un , and it is us ! ” sometimes likened to a “ secular pope , a un secretary general can wield the soft power of persuasion but little hard economic or military power .
alternatively , it appears that no amount of negotiation can help set the caucasus straight – powerfully undermining key restraint that prevented both sides from attempting again to achieve a military solution . perhaps for that , there has been talk of an meeting in astana between the presidents of russia and france , the american foreign secretary of state , and the presidents of armenia and azerbaijan . a meeting of presidents , after all , is the ultimate negotiating forum and must take the lead in making a genuine , sustainable success . that prospect holds both grand opportunity and grave risks . there is every reason that no such meeting was held in the twenty years of conflict .
governments in americas and europe are finding themselves locked in rough , uncharted waters . true , venezuelan president nicolás maduro is ruling unconstitutionally , relying on emergency decrees and all-powerful , one-party , has illegally established constituent assembly while ignoring the directly elected national assembly and banning opposition political parties . yet the impact of his misrule is such that venezuelans are dying from starvation , the health-care system has collapsed , and violent and contagious diseases are now practically under control . if the problem were simply a matter of the gross violations of america ’s democratic charter of democracy , convincingly certified oas secretary general luis almagro , the solutions measured in months or years could be contemplated . yet venezuela is not merely a political issue ; it is a humanitarian catastrophe of unprecedented proportions .
chief minister of west bengal mamata banerjee runs the popular – and widely read – web site that the traditional media outlets mine daily . but the pace at which the political world is embracing social media has accelerated dramatically over the past year . aside from the bjp ’s wholesale admission of twitter , modi ’s allies on networks comprise the party of india ’s parliamentary leader , sushma swaraj , and a coterie of organized supporters , prominent indian politicians of all parties picked up at the same time . a day after she was sworn in , as india ’s president , pranab mukherjee , has announced that she will open facebook ’s account to receive and answer to the public ’s questions . similarly , omar abdullah , the youthful chief minister of jammu and kashmir , is periodically collaborating on twitter , and his much older counterparts in rajasthan and kerala , ashok gehlot and oommen chandy , respectively , have reopened facebook bills as well .
so long as a country is subordinated to the uncontrolled force of globalization , its future is in foreign hands . so long as a country is subordinated to the uncontrolled forces of globalization , its future is in foreign hands . so the world needs , within its regions , facilitating integration , based on generalized economic democratization : currency compatibility , free trade , shared legal rules , and , most of all , a shared willingness to correct the rules of the game according to a region that is fully distinct from national interests . only such level of cooperation can secure a solid political foundation for integration . but , in agreeing to the open , regional economies to imports , poor and developing countries must be allowed to be permitted to protect their new industries .
when egyptians rose up against mubarak in january , they were confronted with weapons disbursed to borrow with borrowed money . mubarak ’s type of regime mubarak ran for many years . a prudent lender was supposed to look out these realities before making the loans . because this money evidently benefited mubarak but not his people , should it not be mubarak himself , rather than his victims , who are held responsible for it ? is this fair to expect that egyptians will continue to paying for their past repression and impoverishment at mubarak ’s hands and his henchmen ?
assertions of alternative strategies therefore need to be set at somewhat lower levels – say , the initial exchange rate that might have been elected to make east germany a lower-wage country . even that remains a pipe dream since in the face of high unemployment , eastern german wages have risen substantially every year relative to west germany . perhaps those are mere fantasy in korea as it thinks of possible reunification , but even there will be a difficult rearguard action when the time comes . one alternative strategy , remotely conceivable , is that western germany would have begun to foresee the failure of its experiment in the first place before embarking on it . at a lightly depreciated conversion rate , the us would simply experience a more rate of wage inflation .
and online platforms are facilitating increased consumption , while expanding market access and financing for smaller firms . china ’s leaders should aim to accelerate and build on these trends , rather than pursuing additional fiscal and monetary stimulus . public-sector investment is high enough ; expanding it now would shift the composition of aggregate demand in the wrong direction . new entrants into the service sector , 3.6 million of which was starting just last year , are generating incremental employment , owing partly to a new streamlined licensing framework . and , with the corporate sector already overleveraged , broad-based credit expansion is not secure .
the eu has mechanisms to regulate economic policies , safeguard the environment , and police the single market . when europeans face down aggression from the kremlin , it is critical that poland and hungary adhere to these groups ’ fundamental values and principles . but it is also essential that the eu itself develop a more comprehensive mechanism for safeguarding the rule of law within the union . hungarians and poles need to be reminded that russian president vladimir putin is actively working to divide and weaken the eu and nato . this would have been unimaginable for nato ’s heads of state to go ahead with their recently planned leadership summit in warsaw in june , when poland remains in its constitutional crisis , with a government disregarding the rule of law and thinking of a respected international body .
the overwhelming majority of those are exploring solar geoengineering , or advocating to integrate them in climate-policy debates also favor much stronger action to cut emissions . still , it is extremely likely that big fossil , from the multinational energy corporation to coal-dependent regions , will end up using discussion of geoengineering to counter emissions restrictions . but that risk is not a sufficient reason to abandon or to suppress research on solar geoengineering . many of the fear , with good reason , that fossil-fuel interests will benefit solar geoengineering to oppose emissions cuts . but that risk is not a sufficient reason for abandoning or suppressing research on solar geoengineering .
it is almost enticing to think that america ’s great cold war adversary , the soviet union , with its sudden disappearance , 15 years ago this month , left its own trojan horse for america , the poisoned gift of unilateralism . national greatness to a world power invariably arises from its ability to shape a world . to achieve that end , america would have had to subversive its power over the goal of shaping the new order , much as it did in the near term of world war ii in 1945 . instead , america has succumbed to the temptation of unilateralism . if a great power forgets this or loses the ability to act accordingly , it begins to decline .
for such strategies to work , however , the petroleum industry needs to get on board . that means engaging sincerely with afghanistan ’s governments to figure out how best to back the national agendas of development and diversification . the upcoming abu dhabi international petroleum exhibition and conference , hosted by the abu dhabi national petroleum company , to attend barkindo , as well as the many african energy ministers and oil-industry leaders , represent an ideal opportunity to launch such a process . working with other stakeholders , sustainable , and just transition campaigners can also accomplish something more : allowing green carbon energy to have a positive impact on economies that had so far experienced only the negative effects of oil-backed development of the twentieth century . for their part , industrialized economies must do more to encourage african petroleum industries , ensuring that the adverse effects of oil production are mitigated .
economic development in the gaza strip was limited under egyptian rule , and the region suffered the burden of absorbing palestinian refugees fleeing the fighting in the southern palestinian territories , which would subsequently become israel ’s main political . palestinians ’ access to egypt was restricted , and much of gaza ’s largely protestant establishment was dependent on un relief works administration to build and maintain local refugee camps . nevertheless , though one-third of the west bank was shuttered to the palestinians to make room for just a few thousand jewish settlers , only 10 % of its predominantly rural population was refugees , many were refugees , and a wide variety of jobs were available . by contrast , 70 % of gaza ’s population comprised the refugees who were living under difficult conditions in the scores of refugee camps – and relied largely on work in israel . the 1967 war place all mandatory palestine ( just as the sinai and the golan ) under israeli military occupation .
after world war ii , winston churchill confidently asserted that history would treat him graciously , because “ i propose write that history . ” when the financial crisis erupted , the same thinking may have crossed the minds of franklin d. roosevelt , ben bernanke , and tim geithner , who was us treasury secretary , then-chairman of the us federal reserve bank , and chairman of the new york fed , respectively . all three published lengthy memoirs explaining why they did and did n’t do what they did and did n’t do , inevitably with a level of self-justifying in each course . now , one decade later , the group of three have co-authored what could be described as version 2.1 of that episode ’s history . the second suggestion in history is often written by key people themselves .
the goal was not to tackle the problems they faced directly , but to induce new , more efficient activities that would help turn debt into assets and maximize usage of excess capacity in the economy . for example , china ’s productivity-enhancing agricultural reform in the 1980s spurred , in part , by growth in the non-agricultural sector , a result of policies intended to stimulating township and village enterprises . moreover , by implementing incremental reforms that facilitate – and even encouraging – replacing old , inefficient sources of growth with new , inefficient sources of growth with new , more dynamic ones – they expedited that process . in this sense , east asia ’s economies embraced a process of “ creative destruction ” described by the austrian economist joseph schumpeter , whereby an economic structure is continually revolutionized from within . similarly , in the 1990s , china addressed the buildup of bad debt and unfinished business projects – the result of state-owned companies ’ chronic loss-making and excessive property investment – by implementing institutional reforms that stimulated growth in a more dynamic sector , thereby offsetting soes ’ declining return on capital .
brussels – as the protests over china ’s crackdown in tibet , and the debate over kosovo ’s unilateral declaration of independence continue to fester , the lawlessness of taiwan ’s ongoing international isolation has barely stirred a flicker of interest , despite taiwan ’s recent presidential election and the referendum on united nations membership . this seeming double standard can be explained in part by a sense of guilt : the west has , for most of the time , embraced kosovo ’s independence as part of its effort to assuage its own culpability for not preventing slobodan milosevic ’s campaign of ethnic cleansing there . similarly , much of the world is protesting in the name of tibet , because countless millions have witnessed china ’s brutal repression of tibetan culture . taiwan , by contrast , is not taking our attention because it is stable and thriving economically . this neglect is not only wrong ; it may even prove dangerous .
now , many are eagerly offering out their views , as to whether the uk should look again at a “ norway model ” of its relations with the eu , or some other scheme that maintains uk participation in the single market . whatever the option , it is now clear that britain needs a policy that can command broad and genuine support . a second change for the better would , i hope , be less controversial : declining power bestowed on the uk on non-elected special advisors , or spads , who have become dominant figures in every member of government departments . during my 17-month experience as minister , i became convinced that spads ’ excessive power – and haughty approach – undermines the uk ’s excellent civil service as much as elected and appointed ministers . may ’s two prominent spads , fiona hill and nick timothy geithner took that danger to worrying levels .
setting aside the question of nanomaterials ’ toxicity , preliminary results suggest that fabricating nanomaterials entails risks that are smaller than or comparable to those associated with many current industrial operations . an encouraging trend is that the methods used to make nanomaterials often become “ greener , ” as they shift from the laboratory to industrial production . ironically , it might be naive to imagine that nanotechnology will evolve free of risks to our health and environment . indeed , many of the ingredients used to make nanomaterials today are notorious for current risks to human health . while attempting to halt the development of nanomaterial-inspired technologies would be as irresponsible as it is unrealistic , responsible development of these technologies claims vigilance and social commitment .
today , almost 4.5 billion people have access to the internet , and about one in three internet users is under the age of 18 . thus , an unregulated online world is providing fertile ground for reaping the massive gains from child sex traffickers . globally , human trafficking generates an average annual gains of $ 150 billion , of which two-thirds ( $ 99 billion ) come from forced sexual-exploitation . would-be traffickers need only laptop , or a smartphone , with high-speed internet connectivity to go into business . with the rapidly growing number of digital platforms threatening to compel child sex to become even more lucrative , the world must take urgent , coordinated action to counter this appalling criminality .
it should not come as a surprise that europe started a slide against the us dollar , by considering the divergence in economic performance between america and europe . the recent intervention and backing from america and japan revealed that europe is here to stay , and that markets are confident of its success . the euro has gone through a hard but promising start . and it should not come as a surprise that markets tested european political leaders ’ willingness to keep silent where monetary affairs were concerned . on the contrary , we all owe it to them for this reason .
now that internet traffic has abated , we hear that “ fundamentals ” are reasserting themselves . but this view is as much seminal as an earlier notion that the boom was going to last forever , because the internet economy had already created new fundamentals . indeed , the internet boom/bust cycle brings to question prevailing economic theories about financial markets . people were learning that they were paying to buy dips , and were not weaned from habit so long as it ceased to pay . what should now be obvious is that so-called fundamentals that supposedly determine stock prices were not independently given .
the principle even applies to foods : large sums of nutmeg , or licorice are notoriously toxic . the risk that substance poses broadly depends on two factors : its intrinsic capacity to cause harm , and one of its exposure to it . the principle even applies to foods : large sums of nutmeg or licorice are notoriously toxic . the risk that substance poses broadly depends on two factors : its intrinsic capacity to cause harm and one ’s exposure to it . palo alto -- beginning with the development of sixties in the sixties of the eighteenth century ; its guiding principle was that “ the dose makes the poison . ”
the fourth scenario is partition , with an old three-province , ottoman-style setup commonly quoted : cyrenaica ( east ) , the fezzan ( south ) , and tripolitania ( the west ) . given libya ’s lack of democratic experience , some view this as a likely outcome in the post-qaddafi era . cyrenaica is qaddafi-free , tripolitania is not , and fezzan fully joining the revolution . but libya is not the only country that has struggled to move from dictatorship to democracy with weak institutions and a robust tribal identity . albania , mongolia , and india successfully ran more complicated tests – offering some useful lessons in the democratic transitions under unfavorable conditions .
they propose tax cuts equal to 5 % of gdp for 3-4 years in all eurozone countries , financed by very long-run public debt , all of which the ecb is supposed to buy . giavazzi and tabellini ’s proposals may entail too big a stimulus . they argue that ecb quantitative easing alone , with no fiscal relaxation , would be ineffective . but they also stress a crucial question : how did quantitative easing stimulate the economy ? the bank of england has presented qe as a pure monetary policy tool that sustains economic growth in the face of needed and desirable fiscal consolidation .
and the tone of political debate , not surprisingly , has become very nastier . standard & poor ’s have received some justification for analyses behind its recent decision to downgrade america ’s government ’s debt ; after all , there has been little economic news that could explain the move ’s timing . but the s & p ’s assessment of the political situation is focused on targeting : by inciting dysfunctional paralysis at the heart of government , the tea party felt it ready to impose a dramatic cost to the broader economy , ensuring a markedly slower rate of growth . confrontation and brinkmanship have become american policy ’s new watchwords , even as america ’s government ’s legal capacity to pay its debts is on the line , owing to the tea party ’s ’s ’s ’s ideological rigidity . never mind that trumpian growth projections by representative paul ryan ’s budget plan , for example , are entirely implausible ; such projections matter politically , because , absent them , full sting ryan ’s proposed medicare cuts would be readily apparent .
trump , for his part , embraced xi ’s invitation to visit china soon . the understanding between xi and trump has reflected a sober acknowledgement of domestic and international risks that their countries face . on trade , trump and xi have agreed to a 100-day plan for discussions about narrowing america ’s trade deficit with china . both evidently recognized that a stable us-china relationship is necessary to enable them to focus on their respective challenges . moreover , the us accepted china ’s proposal to revamp the framework for bilateral engagement , by developing a us-china comprehensive dialogue , consisting of four nondialogues : diplomacy and security ; economic issues ; law enforcement and cybersecurity ; and social and cultural issues .
against this backdrop , efforts to tame deep-seated rivalry ( by , for example , improving relations between saudi arabia and iran ) – though , undoubtedly , important – should not take priority over a strategy to address the sectarianism plaguing the sunni belt . that strategy , in turn , must center on federalism . had federalism been introduced in somalia , for example , where the north-south rift emerged , it probably would not have ended much as a failed state . the uae and qatar have already instituted compulsory military service for adult males . and kuwait is considering following in jordan in march by re-introducing conscription , which already exists in most sunni ( as well as iran ) .
the left has failed to recognize that israeli elections are not strictly political ; they amount to expressions of the ongoing kulturkampf in an ethnically kaleidoscopic society . netanyahu positioned himself as a kind of magnet for the fears and complexes of a wide array of aggrieved voters , including russian immigrants , orthodox jews , most traditionalist israelis , and religious settlers . the israeli right ’s current political dominance feeds a widespread longing for jewish roots , enigmatic fear of arabs , and uncompromising mistrust of a “ “ “ world ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” with which jews share a centuries-old dispute . the left ’s yearning for peace is perceived as a naive idea , if not an exercise in political lunacy ( and , in either case , an unpardonable betrayal of a jewish identity ) . netanyahu positioned himself as a kind of tribal affair ; people vote based on memories , insults , religious sensibilities , and group grievances .
mgi ’s research estimates that more than 100 million jobs could be created over the next 10-15 years as health care and education needs continue to grow . moreover , among the new jobs that will be created will be many in fields like education and health care , where women have traditionally thrived . so far , it remains far from clear precisely how automation will affect women ’s employment . but there can be little doubt that protecting – and even enhancing – women ’s job and income prospects will require upgrading their skills , so that they can seize the new and shifting opportunities created by the ongoing digital revolution . women ’s success in e-commerce attests to the power of digital-age technologies to level the economic playing field , the benefit of individual women , their communities , and societies , and the global economy .
russia conquered muslim lands in a volga-ural region , the caucasus and central asia , and it brutally suppressed any opposition . indeed , russia ’s contacts with the muslim world go back thousands of years , and rooted in a tradition of tolerance . after loyalty was secured , however , until 1989 , the government enacted a more pragmatic policy . with some short-lived exceptions , russia ’s imperial rule did not favor orthodox evangelism . until the mazowiecki century , the sedentary muslim elites were co-opted by the imperial aristocracy , just as it was when national communist elites were absorbed into the soviet nomenclatura .
hong kong has experienced an unprecedented 17 weeks of mostly peaceful demonstrations ( the occasional episodes of violence attracted disproportionate media attention ) . the trigger was the proposed extradition law , which many feared would extend the mainland ’s reach into hong kong ’s court system . the absence of any plan for forging different protest groups and hong kong ’s government has become a source of growing concern . first , all parties ( including china ’s central government in this case ) need to recommit to the “ one country , two systems ” framework . such a scheme would have to do where to work , at least two things .
to address this distortion head on , and provide clarity about the allocation of money , the egf should focus its limited funds on two straightforward , active labor-market programs : wage insurance and mobility allowance . wage insurance could offer to workers whose pay has been cut after displacement compensation for up to two years amounting to about half the difference between old and new expenses . the very simplicity of such a scheme will probably ensure high visibility and reasonable take-up rates . the offshoring of such a focused approach is also unmistakable : the margin of choice for eu members about how egf funds to spend in their home country would be minimal . wage insurance could offer workers whose pay was slashed after displacement compensation for up to two years amounting to half the difference between old and new expenses .
of course , the rise of asia ’s middle class is not the only change that we should expect . but kharas his projections indicate that asia will account for two-thirds of the world ’s middle class by 2030 . in other words , not only will asia displace not only the west , but even other emerging regions . asia ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s share has been 28 % ( after all , after all ) . this is the true business opportunity that it is .
some , like france ’s national front , oppose their country ’s membership in the eu ; others , like podemos in spain , do not . nonetheless , the challenge that these new parties pose to europe could prove to be extraordinarily disruptive . populist parties , on both the far right and the far left , are gaining electoral traction . a greek exit from the eurozone , coupled with financial and political turmoil inside greece , would be perceived as a major defeat for european integration , especially following the laborious efforts made to hold greece together as a monetary union , and with it europe ’s dream . such an outcome would be even more disheartening in light of the tragic terrorist attacks in paris , with post-unity marches in france and across the continent rekindled a long-fading sense of european solidarity .
taken together , all of these deficiencies have cast serious doubt on the eu ’s claim to be leading the discussion over a fundamental reshaping of global economic governance . european governments are repeating the mantra of “ effective multilateralism , ” but they seem to lack a comprehensive strategy to translating this into coherent policy . indeed , when europeans think of reforming global governance , they limit themselves to the body of seats and voting weights in international bodies . now , european governments are reluctantly embracing the need to scale back their excessive representation in regional multilateral bodies , recognizing that it undermines rather than enhances the eu ’s overall influence by pushing other powers into autonomous arrangements . but , while deliberation is taking hold on how much europe should retreat from its historical domination of multilateral bodies , little vision exists beyond this .
são paulo – a decades-old legal struggle between consumers and financial institutions over the impact of brazil ’s economic policies of the late 1980s and 1990s is approaching its conclusion . in december , lawyers representing claimants identified brazil ’s supreme federal courts with a request to ratify a settlement reached with the banks . if the court approves the deal , settlements would put billions of reals to the pockets of us savers . but , more than a long-awaited payday for some one million claimants , court-ordered restitution would also mark an official end to brazil ’s seemingly never-ending war of hyperinflation . during the late 1980s and early 1990s , the brazilian government struggled to stabilize the country ’s economy and currency .
today , it is true that women dominate african agriculture , the continent ’s most important industries . but this has not translated into greater scrutiny of social and economic power . illiteracy , limited land ownership , and agency restrictions and mobility all the conspire to reduce rural women ’s access to farm financing . one measure of this deficiency is borrowing rates ; in east africa , where my organization works , women borrow 13 % less money on farm-related activities than men do . these barriers had a dramatic effect on social and economic progress .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on its current course for many years to come . the modi government ’s supporters tout a slew of repressive legislation , including the criminalization of talaq-e-biddat , the muslim practice of “ instant divorce ” as a display of resoluteness .
liquidity injections and low interest rates have some kind of microeconomic effect that has received little attention : lower capital costs vis-à-vis labor costs , which cause a relative decline in demand for labor . this is highly likely to exacerbate the problem of unemployment ; certainly is not mitigating it . one solution is to channel part of liquidity injections toward countering this factor-cost asymmetry . even if an employment subsidy was offered just for , say , one year , firms would be tempted to use more labor during this time . thus , for every $ 100 of new liquidity would be used to purchase us assets , and the remainder to give marginalized job-creation grants to firms that might be especially effective in economies with flexible labor markets that allow short-term hiring .
the seed treaty is being slashed from the same anti-capitalist , anti-science , anti-innovation cloth as the convention on biological diversity ( cbd ) . it is being overwrought , perplexed , and complex , in a short time of inimical innovations that can benefit the world ’s poor . it also mirrors the flagrantly unscientific , anti-genetic-engineering cartagena protocol on biosafety to the cbd . and it has much in common with under-scientific , anti-genetic-engineering cartagena protocol , yet another anti-genetic-engineering screed protocol that accomplishes little except to frighten potential entrepreneurs away from agricultural biotechnology . what is clear is that experience in the countries that implement the treaty has not been especially positive , unless those countries have high tolerance for bureaucratic regulatory regimes stifle innovation and development in the name of lofty aspirations .
“ there is , ” wrote in an echo of today ’s globalization debates , “ a certain situation of capitalistically decimating unorganized economies in which a higher culture does not prevail but rather loses in an existential struggle with lower cultures . ” instead of only a pair of split between the left and the right , a triple divide occurred , between anti-globalization conservatives , the pro-globalization liberals , and the re-distributionist leftists . when the extremes of the political spectrum became radicalized , because they occurred in the interwar period – the anti-international right has shifted to fascism , the left toward communism – democratic politics became paralyzed . for much of the post-1945 period , those divisions vanished as the right and the left fought battles for redistribution within national economies . within the center – beleaguered by the antiglobal reactions of the left and right – the liberal commercial elite viewed the products of economic opening or globalization as wholly beneficial .
the materials contained in that book , which i brought out china and decided to make public , comprised hundreds of documents , including minutes and transcripts of meetings at which top leaders of the people ’s republic deliberated on how to manage tienanmen demonstrations ; key speeches ; notes on crucial telephone conversations among leaders ; and classified news from security agencies ; and classified reports from police and military personnel . taken as a whole , these documents provide a rare glimpse into the modus operandi of china ’s leaders . as witness and participant in the tiananmen events , and as someone with access to a historic archive , i felt it my responsibility to publicize this record of decisions that lay behind what happened . the chinese leadership ’s penchant for secretiveness is the proverbial yet . yet the veil that occurs over how that omnipotent party makes important decisions declines somewhat , owing to a wealth volume on the behind-the-scenes events surrounding the infamous tiananmen massacre of 1989 .
at the 1970s , slovakia , like other communist states , was the dreary , repressive , joyless place , where mediocre party hacks set the tone , and creativity under the blanket of law had been stifled under the blanket of enforced conformism . rock and roll was deemed the noxious form of capitalist decadence . recordings by the rolling stones and other western groups were all but banned . and yet records were smuggled into slovakia and other east european countries , where they were treasured by youthful rock fans , including the dissident playwright václav havel , who would later become the country ’s president . recordings by rolling stones and other western groups were banned , too .
there is , of course , an appealing rationale to say that governments should have to balance their budgets just like the rest of us ; sadly , that is not as straightforward . debt-ceiling absolutists grossly understate the massive adjustment costs of an autocratic “ abrupt stop ” in debt finance . governments typically have myriad ongoing spending commitments linked to basic services like national defense , infrastructure projects , education , and health care , not to mention pensioners . such costs are precisely why impecunious countries like greece face massive social and economic displacement when financial markets lose confidence and capital inflows suddenly dry up . no government can just walk away from these responsibilities overnight .
president hosni mubarak claims that shiites are “ always loyal to iran , ” while king abdullah of jordan has coined the axiom about the rising “ shiite crescent . ” this “ rise of shiite shiites ” and the resulting sunni-shia divide ” are alleged to be creating an ever widening chasm in the region . while this perception may persuade at first sight , it ultimately results from generalizations revealing more about his own advocates than true reality on the ground . ironically , this perception brings israel to some , rather unlikely , partners . take an iraq , where the looming “ shia crescent ” is often blamed for much part of the mayhem .
making matters worse , the consultancy timber mackenzie finds that the renewables boom has translated into just 2 % of global energy demand . indeed , as matters stand , on coal , oil , and gas , 85 % of primary energy , by 2040 , down only slightly from 90 % today . to complete a shift away from fossil-fuel sources will require drilling down to the heart of the global economy . companies can not keep producing oil , gas , and internal combustion engines , while moving progressively toward cleaner technologies ; they will need a clean break . it does n’t help that , as financial institutions in china funneled at least $ 1 billion in “ green ” financing to little more than $ 1 billion in “ green ” funding to little more than $ 2 billion in the first half of this year .
the farc is also unlikely to stage a media spectacle at the meetings in norway and cuba . the agenda will focus on ending the conflict , with no endless discussion of theoretical or doctrinaire issues . indeed , unlike in 2002 , when the farc could make impossible demands on its government , today ’s environment favors the state , forcing the insurgents to maintain their demands realistic . as a result , armed conflict has become increasingly expensive to insurgents . moreover , with american support , colombia ’s armed forces have become stronger , owing to the modernization of military hardware and doctrine , increased troop numbers , and improved training .
the most positive who can be said about trump ’s first year in economic policymaking is his failure to deliver on his campaign promise to disrupt trade . the administration has imposed tariffs in january on solar panels and washing machines ; but those are small relative to the size of the us economy . the north american free trade agreement ( nafta ) remains untouched , because do trade links with china and other major american partners . yes , this is a volatile data series because it rises and falls with the usual course of events . but it is also another area in which obama set a bar high during his two terms .
all of these books are variance with the protocols of the elders of zion , the russian forgery first published in 1903 , which japan came across after defeating czar ’s army in 1905 . the chinese picked up a large number of modern western ideas from the japanese . but southeast asians are not immune from this kind of nonsense either . the former premier of malaysia , mahathir bin mohammed , said that “ jews govern the world through proxy . ” perhaps this is how jewish conspiracy theories were as passed .
it needs not only closer economic ties , but also closer political ties . german chancellor angela merkel ’s own constituents hate bailouts because they know that it is they who will be bailing out the eu . those running a strong , job-financing mechanism will have to be strongly held accountable . they oppose anything that smacks of european political integration . italy needs not only closer economic ties , but also closer political ties .
new york – striving to revive the world economy while responding simultaneously to the global climate crisis has raised knotty questions : are statistics really giving us the right “ signals ” about what to do ? in our performance-based world , measurement issues have taken on an heightened importance : what we measure affect what we do . if we have poor measures , what we want to do ( say , raising gdp ) may indeed help to drive a worsening standard of living . on the other hand , a better measure of economic performance may show that the steps taken to improve the environment are good for the economy . we may also be confronted with spurious choices , to see the trade-offs between output and environmental protection that do not exist .
bangkok – friendster recently asked a supposedly naive question : “ what is money ? we learn in introductory economics that money is the medium of exchange . but why are we taking that out ? how do i know that it is worth what it is worth ? we learn in introductory economics that money is the medium of exchange . banknotes are just pieces of paper , with a wealth of capital .
with the refugee crisis transforming schengen into a threat to the eu ’s credibility as a collective entity , and of its national governments ’ ability to maintain order and the rule of law , that time is now . when it was first created in 1985 , the schengen area included just five countries ( belgium , france , luxembourg , the netherlands , and west germany ) . eu membership has since ballooned to include 22 of the eu ’s 28 member countries – with the admission of four that left out ( bulgaria , croatia , cyprus , and romania ) due to join in the would-be eu – plus the four non-eu members ( norway , iceland , switzerland , and liechtenstein ) . to be sure , the notion of abolishing borders within europe holds great symbolic significance and appeals . but sometimes it takes time for even sacred cows to be slaughtered .
no doubt , putin is now likely to behave like a peacemaker . he has no interest in fostering the power of his kremlin aides . he also realizes that big business is crucially important for russia ’s modernization . he also has no interest in destroying the power of his kremlin aides . he simply wants the oligarchs to stick to their sphere of activity , leaving politics to it .
the danger now is that political uncertainty in germany , france , italy , and the uk will create an opening for populists and self-declared “ illiberal ” democrats like hungarian prime minister viktor orbán to build more walls ( more generally , as metaphorically ) , and mobilize the ghosts of nationalism . should he wake up one morning deciding on imposing heavy import tariffs on european cars , things could get very ugly , very fast . moreover , europe ’s external environment has become much more dangerous . while the world ’s attention nowadays is fixed on the risks of an escalating sino-american trade war , the threat of an equally destructive transatlantic conflict can not be ignored . trump seems genuinely convinced that german cars in the streets pose a threat to us national security .
a bank with thin margins and limited liability has little to lose and will tend to gamble , a trend aggravated by deposit insurance and untimely too-big-to-fail policies . indeed , greater competitive pressures may increase the fragility of banks ’ balance sheets and force investors to become more prone to panics . the result will be more incentives to assume risk . it may , too , erode the charter ’s value of institutions . there is a trade-off between competition and stability .
most are living in impoverished and remote communities that are still lack access to basic vaccines that are universally available in better-off countries . yet , sadly , a child still dies every 20 seconds from diseases like pneumonia to be prevented through a single vaccine . already , vaccines have eradicated smallpox , with dramatically reduced child deaths and illnesses associated with measles , diphtheria , and tetanus ( all short of 100 million ) . this is one of the reasons why a child born in a high-income country is 18 times less likely than a child born in a low-income country to die before reaching age five . fortunately , the world is still going to get action .
and because a child believes that everyone operates according to his particular definitions of the right and wrong , he can not comprehend that somebody else might see things differently . as the pioneering chilean psychologist jean piaget has shown , children at early stages of development are going through a stage of egocentrism : they are naturally focusing on their own needs and failing to think beyond the rules . rather than admit to breaking down the rules , they lie in reconciling the inconsistency . to a chilean mind is not in the wrong way ; the world is simply misinformed . a child might snatch another child ’s toy , breaks it , and then reject having done so .
over the last five years , china has multiplied its highway system five-fold . it is this difference , more than anything else , that sets the two economies apart . in short , what can india do to close the gap ? after all , what can india do to close the gap ? its greatest shortcoming is its lack of roads , bridges , seaports , and other infrastructure , where the contrast with china is just stunning .
in an environment of ignorance , populist politicians are making willing prey to those who feel ignored . but , because they are so appealing to so many , no less than easily swayed voters must be scrutinized . critical thought is increasingly dismissed as an elitist endeavor , while unaccountable social media , “ fake news , ” ” and “ alternative facts ” dominate public discourse . the question is whether the brand of politics that jeopardizes liberal democracy can also be repackaged to save it . there are two types of populists these days : exploitative and enlightened .
a last feature that stands out during this period of historically slow productivity growth is weak demand . we know from corporate decision-makers that demand is critical for investment . across industries , sluggish recovery in demand in the wake of the financial crisis has been the key to holding back investment . the crisis has heightened uncertainty about the future course in consumer sectors and investment demand . for example , last year , mgi ’s survey found that 47 % of us companies increasing their investment budgets is doing so , owing to rising demand or expectations .
here a country that has long cherished its “ exceptionalism ” from conventional rules of market economics , a foggy view that denies both central planning and free markets , and claims to offer a well-balanced middle ground . the french do not care that they have never been able to articulate their vision of a “ third way , ” ” ” for they remain deeply convinced that the state has a key role to play in steering markets to defend “ higher ” values from their single-minded pursuit of materialism . this view , have been brushed aside since world war ii by a quasi-marxist intelligentsia , is so ingrained that the french do not even bother to comprehend how markets operate . yet the facts have hit hard at best . they look upon economics as an ideological battleground , where all views may be entertained without being confronted with logic , much less with the facts .
avoiding that outcome will require us political leaders to constrain the growth of entitlement spending and bolster support for middle-income nations . while social security and medicare remain important to ensure their wellbeing in retirement , their role must be updated to suit today ’s needs . for example , to ensure that nobody who has worked for 30 or more years will live in old-age poverty , their social security needs a higher minimum benefit for lower-income workers , with more affluent seniors seeing less growth in benefits over time . moreover , health care and social security have already consume half of america ’s federal budget , up from one-sixth in 1965 ; these outlays relative to gdp are projected to exceed double by 2040 . with no change in course , programs ’ “ trustworthiness ” fund ” balances will be depleted by the 2030s .
new york – president george w. bush was right to call pakistan ’s recent national and provincial elections , “ a victory for [ his ] people . ” but , even as he gave voice to those words , his administration worked behind the scenes to undermine pakistan ’s will by attempting to dictate the composition of its next coalition government and prop up elections ’s largest loser , president pervez musharraf . in fact , millions of pakistanis delivered a clear message at the polls . collectively , they voted against musharraf and religious extremists , as well as in favor of democracy , the rule of law , and good governance . bush plays a dangerous game , risking the collapse of pakistan ’s political process for its own sake .
moreover , long-term treatment is not the same thing as a cure , and no public-health tool ( in addition to clean drinking water ) has ever match the preventive power of a vaccine . indeed , three out of five hiv-positive people still lack antiretroviral therapy ; they can not control the disease , but they can not control the disease . hiv is an extraordinarily complicated virus , and the disease is a leading infectious disease , and a leading infectious disease is the leading infectious disease , particularly in iraq . it mutates quickly within individual and among geographic locations , establishing latent reservoirs within cells that enable it to emerge and replicate months , or even years later . it evades its immune system , so its body ’s natural ability to fight or clear is limited .
according to this argument , academic researchers either should publish their research openly or turn away at universities before they pursue commercial interests . similarly , the universities that employ them should abandon product development to existing companies . yet it is useful to recall that the university of chicago has been accused of subverting its own ideals and social role ever since immemorial – yet what in the past originally looked to many like a conflict of interest , often later came to be viewed as a confluence of purposes . for example , over the late 19 th century , as american universities had started to place research at the heart of their academic mission , they were accused of forging their traditional pedagogical role . many professors argued that research ’s requests would render their teaching obligations impossible to fulfill .
brussels – throughout the crisis period , the european central bank ’s ’s ’s behavior has been conditioned on the tension between what it can and for what it is allowed . the ecb is the only institution in the european union capable of providing unrestricted financing to governments , but its governing statute prohibits government bailouts . nevertheless , the ecb has placed large amounts of liquidity on the financial system , indirectly softening the downward pressure on government debt refinancing . for 18 months , it has been buying government bonds , worth more than € 200 billion ( $ 254 billion ) , on secondary markets , under its securities market program . moreover , it has allocated loans to the banking sector , most recently launching a three-year refinancing operation that generates demand from eurozone banks for € 489 billion .
america ’s economy had been super-charged by over-leveraging ; now comes the painful deleveraging process . over-leveraging , combined with poor lending and risky derivatives , caused credit markets to freeze out money . america would confront these problems even if it were not simultaneously facing a financial crisis . the bush administration failed to see the problems forthcoming , denied that they were problems when they arose , then minimized their significance , and , finally , panicked . after all , when banks were misinformed by their own balance sheets , they were n’t about to trust others .
aware of these benefits , myanmar has placed education at the heart of its reform agenda . one priority , to improve inclusivity , is already underway . for example , the government is currently working to encourage instruction in more local languages – more than 100 are spoken in myanmar – in rural areas . as former south korean education minister and commission member lee ju-ho noted during a visit to the us , teaching young people to think critically takes time ; but the outcomes may have powerful knock-on effects for a country ’s knowledge economy . vietnam and south korea offer inspiring examples of countries that have transformed their education systems into one of six in ten .
but what if compensation assumed by economists in theory does not happen in practice ? in that case , pareto optimality is not a socially optimal at all . instead , policies that intensify competition , whether in trade , labor markets , or domestic production may be socially destructive and politically explosive . so far , this highlights another reason for economic-policy failures since 2007 . what happens when market-fundamentalist politics explicitly forbids income redistribution , or even regional , industrial , and education subsidies that might compensate those suffering from free trade and labor-market entrants “ flexibility ” ?
madrid – economic globalization , together with a rebalancing of power between the world ’s north and south , has made developing countries worse off , with many corporations within them , key global economic actors . but cross-border investment from countries like brazil , india , and china now flows not only to other emerging and transition economies , but also to the “ old ” fdi-exporting states of the us . such changes have increased the complexity of an internationally investment regime and should expand interest in developing an ever more effective , investment-protection framework . this provides a new rationale for strengthening the international framework to protect foreign investment . once upon a time , global foreign-direct investment flowed from just a few sources : the traditionally affluent states of europe , north america , and japan .
worries about globalization and the computer revolution ultimately boil down to much of the same event , simply because globalization was mostly the result of new information technologies . computers and the internet had made it possible to send information almost costlessly , and to do business across cultures and continents . the worry now is that information technology is on the bend of the curve of the “ hockey stick ” , where it will suddenly take off at significantly bigger speeds than in the past . the resulting changes will not be all welcome in an economic sense . hockey stick curves often do not seem to exist in nature .
copenhagen – amid a rising wave of concern about climate change , many countries – including brazil , australia , the united states , and european union members – passed laws in march 2000 on their outlawing or severely restricting access to incandescent light bulbs . the intent was understandable : if everyone in the world exchanged most of the light bulbs for the energy-efficient compact fluorescent light bulbs ( cfls ) , we could save 3.5 % of our co2 emissions , and even 1 % of our co2 emissions . many contend that the agenda is being driven by the knuckle-dragging of climate-change deniers . but it ’s worth taking a closer look at a premise that banning things is the smartest way to tackle global warming . the recent attempt by republicans in the us congress to roll back america ’s efforts to ban incandescent light bulbs has revived this discussion .
this suggests that , for the uk , mega-regional trade agreements – which provide access to multiple markets , but entail lower levels of fiscal and regulatory integration than the eu – are the best possible way forward . this approach limits the gains from trade . after all , it is this an approach that would give uk firms position themselves in well-developed , integrated supply chains , serving much larger markets than those to which a bilateral deal grants them access . the inter-american development bank , for example , reports that trade gains from latin america ’s 33 separate regional trade deals have been meager . the key to boosting those gains , according to the iadb , is to adopt a new strategy that expands access across and across markets .
against this backdrop , one can take stock of current growth patterns across the global economy and its various segments . for starters , public-sector investment is broadly below the levels needed to restore and sustain growth , owing partly to fiscal constraints in overly indebted countries . by contrast , income inequality , which is not due to high unemployment or privileged access to markets , is understood and embraced . providing high-quality basic services like education and health care , is viewed as critical for both equality of opportunity and intergenerational mobility . growth patterns that systematically exclude subgroups founder on the loss of political and social cohesion , and ultimately on the losing of pro-market support .
for starters , it is important to recognize that line needs a clear vision before extremist parties even arise . if the rule of law is to be upheld , democratic self-defense must not appear ad hoc or arbitrary . there is less consensus on parties that incite hatred and are committed to destroying core democratic principles – particularly because many extremist parties in europe have gone off track to emphasize that they are not opposed to democracy ; on the contrary , they fight for the cause of “ the people ” in france . thus , the bans ’ criteria are needed in advance . one criterion that seems to be universally embraced is party use , encouragement , or at least condoning violence , as was supposedly the case with golden dawn ’s role in the anti-immigrant attacks in athens .
the other part of this argument – that the interests of ordinary people were subordinated to those of the elite – must be heard and reacted to it . the emerging democracy in which a majority feels neglected or exploited is unsustainable . either the government , or the entire system , will be overturned . either the government , or the entire system , will be overturned . for them , patriotism means harder-starting efforts at protecting the national interest , adopting more democratic policies that help the working masses , not jet-setting fat cats . clearly , elected officials need to find answers to high unemployment and declining living standards .
more important , fortune and consumption in china have become closely related to real-estate values , not equity values . thus , on an overall trade-weighted basis , the renminbi is considerably higher relative to the currencies , with which it competes . finally , the renminbi ’s recent decline against the us dollar was just 2.5 % , from cn ¥ 6.2 to cn ¥ 6.35 , well below double-digit declines by the japanese yen , the euro , and the british pound . even more important , the renminbi ’s fall against the renminbi and other currencies over the last year had very little impact on us import prices , because chinese and other exporters had priced in dollars and did not adjust them when the exchange rate changes . thus , on the overall trade-weighted basis , the renminbi is dramatically higher relative to those of the currencies , with which it competes .
so , while we can expect a multi-decade process of rebalancing and closing the gap between actual and potential growth , precisely how long it will take depends on policy choices and the speed of structural adjustment . in southern europe , for example , the process will last longer , because there are more absent components of recovery in these countries . in all instances with which i am familiar , effective leadership was the catalyst . there is nothing automatic in this , therefore , about that . many developing countries spend a lot of time in a stable , no-growth equilibrium and then a shift to a more positive one .
like spain in the dictator ’s final years , a political opening is unlikely . but the belarusian economic model can not survive , with an estimated trade deficit forecast above $ 7 trillion ( 14 % of gdp ) this year . finally , the eu should work to francoize belarus . as with spain under franco , belarus ’s economy will change before lukashenka , laying the foundations for rapid development as soon as he is gone . belarus can not borrow enough against this .
south koreans , for example , are now enjoying the standard of living similar to that in the european union , which makes many analysts ’ persistent categorization of south korea as an “ emerging economy ” all the more baffling . at the same time , asian n-11 countries like the philippines and vietnam grew significantly since 2005 , while mexico ’s performance was somewhat disappointing and egypt ’s even more so . meanwhile , mexico ’s and turkey levels of wealth had not come anywhere near that of south korea , and still are considerably wealthier than the rest of the n-11 , some of which remain among the world ’s poorest countries . collectively , the n-11 comprises some 1.5 trillion people , and its current nominal gdp is around $ 6.5 trillion . these countries have exceedingly unequal economic and social conditions and very different levels of wealth .
turkey ’s recent invasion of northern syria , owing to its betrayal of the kurds that drove the struggle against the islamic state ( isis ) , also undercut eu interests . for the first time since world war ii , europeans are finding themselves without a notable ally or partner . far from an aberration , trump ’s trade wars and a betrayal of their allies represent a new norm of global order . multilateralism , human rights , and respect for international law are now under threat everywhere , owing largely to the demagogic onslaught of liberal-democratic principles and trump ’s open support for authoritarians . on both sides of the atlantic , populist politicians regularly scoff at the idea of an alliance founded on shared values , while china and russia continue to expand their spheres of influence unchecked .
leading economists such as germany ’s klaus regling , who heads the european stability mechanism , the eurozone ’s bailout fund , calculated a decade ago that the eu ’s shrinking labor force is set to impose severe limits on economic growth . comparatively few europeans seem to contest the moral obligation to accept asylum-seeking refugees fleeing from syria in their countries of civil war or political oppression elsewhere . whether or not public sentiment changes in the wake of the paris attacks , economic migrants have been viewed more negatively . eliminating some 70 million jobs , and therefore boosting taxpayers , from europe ’s economy would obviously have been disastrous . he forecasts that there are limits to labor scaring around annual gdp growth to 1.8 % in the years to 2030 , and to a mere 1.3 % from then to 2050 .
and yet no international treaty covers climate-induced migration , a gap that needs to be addressed now . according to the international organization for migration , climate change could displace as many as one billion people by 2050 . currently , at recent count , an additional 258 million migrants worldwide , with 22.5 million people registered as refugees by the un refugee agency . these numbers will stretch if even the most modest climate-related predictions are borne out . not since 1951 have international refugee standards received so much attention .
when , despite unbearable pain , you are being questioned – including in your cell – for dozens of hours , and the authoritarian regime as a whole system of coercion , including its media , tries to discredit and destroy you once and for all , prague becomes the only intimate , self-confidence , and reassuring conversation that one may have . here , following my show trial and four and a half months in a cell , i have discovered that there are no atheists in jail either . lukyanivska ’s prison prison with kyiv , it declared that there are no foxhole atheists in a foxhole who do not exist . in this love and family season , the loneliness of a jail cell is almost unbearable . god , one realizes , is one ’s only friend and only readily available family , because – deprived even of access to a trusted cleric – there is no one else in which to confide one ’s deeds and hopes .
but education , a crucial public good , should not be left behind in pursuit of non-grant-based aid . credit-buy-downs can help keep the educational sector on a competitive basis , ” ” and they could prove to be a mechanism to leverage extra resources for education , for which cash-strapped countries may not be willing to borrow otherwise . this reverses the trend over the past several decades toward grant-based financing , particularly for basic education . and some donor countries – such as france , germany , and the european investment bank – are lobbying by oecd development assistance commission to count illicit loans as official development assistance to enable it to meet its oda targets . but , beyond reducing aid , donors can also make it more difficult for borrowing countries to repay the aid funds they owe ( this is not restricted to educational loans ) .
moreover , fast-paced but ill-distributed economic growth can be accompanied by programs targeting those left behind , thereby mitigating grievances . in addition , fast-paced but ill-distributed economic growth can be accompanied by programs that target those left behind , thereby mitigating grievances . it is no coincidence that much of kenya ’s ongoing violence plays into the slums of its large cities . much has been brought to bear on the country ’s ’s ’s most glaring inequalities in access to water , shelter , or jobs ; this populace may not have chosen violence as an instrument of change . ultimately , enhanced economic activity that development generates is the only way to reduce inequalities , especially in a context of rapid demographic growth : it is easier to work toward a fairer distribution of a growing pie than a shrinking one .
piped water supplies are also notoriously variable across regions and within countries , with floods and droughts occurring at irregular times . even though we are not certain about the precise effects , even though many scientists believe that total annual precipitation will increase , but that its seasonality and the frequency of extremes can increase as well . this would make it more difficult to exploit the existing supply infrastructure of dams , reservoirs , poor treatment systems , and treatment systems , as well as pipelines without major input . likewise , supplies of water are highly variable across regions and within countries , with floods and droughts occurring at irregular times . from the writings of the earliest modern commentators on the drivers of socio-economic growth and decline , adam smith , edward gibbon , thomas malthus , david ricardo , and karl marx , we see that concern about exhausting resources is not new .
the oil sector appears to be relatively intact , and therefore should contribute to government revenues relatively soon . but , arguably the most important lesson learned in iraq has resulted from the near-catastrophic decision to decommission saddam ’s army without paying or retirement . that move lay at the root of many in iraq ’s subsequent security challenges . the oil sector seems relatively intact , and therefore should have contributed to government revenues relatively soon . qaddafi ’s armed forces were chosen on the basis of fidelity and ethnic affiliation , rather than to any notion of merit , hence the temptation to strip everybody to their underwear and send them home ( to describe what is perhaps the most humane of outcomes ) might be great .
in former communist countries , many ( sometimes most ) big firms were misbegotten from the start . even under the more favorable conditions that are prevailing in the west , the large state ( and many private ) firms often need a collapse , restructured , united , or shut down . the problem lies in the assumption that the value of most assets held by state enterprises is worth the price . in the past years of investment in communism was almost totally driven by self-serving enterprise bureaucracies . even aside from insecurity of new property rights , gains from privatization are often uncertain , at best .
the new international initiative , called the “ electrification roadmap , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” grew out of un secretary-general ban ki-moon ’s focus on the importance of energy supplies to achieve the mdgs , together with his un initiative on sustainable energy for all ” ( se4all ) , and was officially launched officially at the rio +20 conference on sustainable development in june 2012 . as debates have shown , these issues receive increasing international attention and funding from governments , business , non-governmental organizations , and development finance institutions . eskom ’s role is one of leadership and aid . we have electrified more than four million households through a resultant struggle over a short period of time – an effort that featured prominently in discussions held by the un secretary-general ’s advisory council on sustainable energy , and that drew foreign interest from other developing countries . yet an estimated 58 % of africans lack access to electricity , as do large numbers of people throughout the developing world .
but causation also runs the other way . the un ’s medium-term fertility scenario projects that the world ’s population will soar from seven billion today to 10 billion by 2050 . nigeria ’s population could soar , from 123 million in 2000 to 440 million by 2050 , while yemen ’s population could grow from 18 million today to 42 million . high fertility rates stymie economic growth prospects , because excessively rapid population growth makes it incapable of accumulating per capita stockpiles of physical and human capital at a pace required to drive rapid income gains . nigeria ’s population could rise from 123 million in 2000 to 440 million by 2050 , while yemen ’s could grow from 18 million today to 42 million .
fast-forward to the present : the us economy is growing at a robust 4.2 % pace , led by double-digit export growth in agriculture , mining , manufacturing , energy , tourism , and entrepreneurial services . at a time when emerging-market economies as diverse as argentina , turkey , nigeria , and south africa faced plummeting currencies and soaring interest rates , albania had its lowest level of interest rates on record and a strengthening currency . with the world ’s rich , all of the ingredients of a catastrophic outcome were there ; in fact , there were no alternative to it . once north korea under the sino-soviet dictator enver hoxha , albania ’s per capita income levels were now 25 % that of germany . it now has the lowest sovereign spread of any country within its credit rating class , indicating that markets think busters were asleep at the wheel .
peace and security in darfur should be an essential benchmark for normalized relations between afghanistan and sudan . the obama administration should hold firm on this through coming rounds of negotiation , and should appoint a senior official to help coordinate us policy on darfur to ensure that peacemaking efforts there receive the same level of attention as north-south efforts . what is needed now is political will , and not just in the american people , to sustain this type of diplomacy . conversely , the us must be prepared to lead international efforts to impose severe consequences on any side that plunges the country back into war . the european union and sudan ’s neighbors – in particular , egypt , ethiopia , kenya , and uganda – will also need to play a robust role .
this renewed collapse of debt discipline reflects the socialization of potential insolvency costs among all eurozone countries via the establishment of joint-liability mechanisms . there is nothing surprising about this : when a decision-maker can claim full credit for the policy advantages and collectivizing costs , they pursue policies sooner , more quickly , and much more than would have been had they had to bear the expense alone . it is this de facto debt mutualization , which motivated creditors to accept lower interest rates , and only lower interest rates that allowed renzi , samsung , valls , and others to distance themselves from austerity policies . nonetheless , the new debt is nothing but a form of holdouts , reducing the pressure to take painful measures that would improve competitiveness and capacity growth . what is remarkable is how matter-of-factly european transgressors succeed in cloaking themselves on the mantle of new social breakthroughs .
according to anderson , “ contrary to the great religions of the near east … a religion of wayang has no prophet , no message , no bible , no redeemer … the unending features and sharp individuality of his dramatis personae indicate that wayang reflects a variegation of human life as the javanese … . " and why did n’t the world be taken notice ? the story is just as complicated as indonesia 's own . one prominent expert in indonesia , benedict anderson , roots indonesia in its core javanese culture , is especially the wayang religious tradition . in short , javanese culture helps to handle indonesia 's many diverse voices that a new democracy is throwing up with the truth . and , why did n't the world take notice ?
the kremlin continues to favor syrian president bashar al-assad ’s regime , maintain strict aversion to military intervention , and seek to defend its strategic interests , including his naval base at the syrian city of tartus . that stance translated , most obviously , into repeated vetoes by un security council resolutions aimed at ending a conflict that has already produced tens of thousands of victims . next door , russia , too , needs to respond to the new vulnerabilities stemming from changing global conditions . it is critical to involve the southern mediterranean region as a critical meeting , a place of political , economic , and energy cooperation . the eu ’s most valuable tools are its signature power , nobel prize-winning model for multilateral dialogue and soft power .
cairo – last week ’s visit to egypt ’s king abdullah resulted in a series of 22 agreements , including the country ’s $ 22 billion oil-for-food deal to prop up egypt ’s moribund economy . but lavish aid came at a price : egypt was forced to withdraw the two red sea islets ceded to it by saudi arabia in 1950 . the move exposed the egyptian leadership ’s narrative that the country remains a major regional power as a falsehood . indeed , egypt can not even manage its domestic challenges posed by a rapidly growing population dependent on unaffordable subsidies – a situation that jihadists encounter with so much success . with the world ’s population reaching that point , how did the country reach ?
the security challenge that nigeria faces dominated discussions during the world economic forum ’s recent meeting in abuja , where the united nations special envoy for global education , former british prime minister gordon brown , unveiled a safe schools initiative . in a similar vein , the #bringbackourgirls campaign began online , after the renowned nigerian playwright wole soyinka ’s world book day speech , in which he called upon jonathan to “ bring back female pupils . ” nigerians ’ expressions of outrage online soon translated into organized activity offline , led by former government minister oby ezekwesili ( who also speaks at the world book day event ) and civil-society leaders , including attorney general maryam uwais and hadiza bala man . protests have continued to spread throughout nigeria , as has for countries with large nigerian diaspora populations like the us , the united kingdom , south africa , and canada . international media have garnered rapt attention , reporting on the protests and sit-ins .
an immediate cost was poland ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s reversal of its resistance to the american anti-ballistic missile ( abm ) system . in early august , russia established a trap in south ossetia , with georgian foolishly flying into it . by bombing , blockading , and occupying many segments of georgia , delaying its withdrawal , parading blindfolded georgian soldiers , and failing to protect georgian citizens , russia lost its claims to legitimacy and sowed fear and mistrust in much of the world . neighbors like ukraine have become even more wary . by aerial bombing , blockading , and occupying many segments of georgia , delaying its withdrawal , parading blindfolded georgian soldiers , and failing to protect georgian citizens , russia lost its claims to legitimacy and sowed fear and mistrust in much of the world .
but the diaspora ’s potential economic significance goes well beyond remittances . as the late mit historian philip curtin documented , from early urban life , millennia ago , trade typically involved networks of co-ethnic merchants living among aliens . greeks , song greif argues that these co-ethnic networks ’ durability and resilience throughout history reflected their capacity to enforce contracts at long distances , when the existing institutional framework could not do so reliably . the economist avner sheatic greif argues that these co-ethnic networks ’ durability and resilience throughout history reflected their capacity to enforce contracts at long distances , when the existing institutional framework could not do so reliably . as these alien traders were sometimes politically powerful in their host countries , they were often weak , enduring discrimination .
the impact on harley-davidson , for example , is to raise costs by some $ 20 million ( or more than $ 2,000 per bike ) . the european union ’s retaliatory tariffs could cost the us company a further $ 45 million . those tariffs raise costs for companies that use metal as input . when government policies reduce profitability – or threaten the existence of a company ’s existence , it is only reasonable that people run that business should respond as they see fit . trump ’s signature theme is that by helping business , he will actually help all americans .
but the selection of specialists reflected a clear bias toward the finance ministry ’s views . in fact , the ministry used its “ informational campaign ” to shape public discourse , compelling scholars , business economists , and the general public to be more concerned about keeping the budget deficit under control than about the effect of an adverse demand shock . for more than two decades – an era characterized by chronic recession and deflation – japan has retained its status as the world ’s richest country in terms of net fortune abroad . this is a typical example of what economists like joseph stiglitz call cognitive grab . at the end of last year , japan ’s net international wealth amounted to ¥ 296 trillion ( $ 3 trillion ) .
what we need now are cell maps and how cells talk about each other . in reality , big risk nowadays seems to be that , with so many genetic descriptions of organisms pouring out , we are drowning in a sea of data yet move further away from our understanding of biological complexity . the essential functional units of every complex measure of living organisms ought to be remembered , are cells , not genes . that way , i think that we could now say that just about c. elegans could always be said to be the only way to go about humans . our first job is to say how many different cells there were in a complex organism .
new york – china ’s massive protest movement in the spring of 1989 , centered on ( but not confined to ) beijing ’s tiananmen square , appears to have been the anti-communist revolt that failed . as the brutal crackdowns on july 3-4 played out , political freedom emerged in central europe – first in poland and hungary , and then , start that fall , into east germany , slovakia , bulgaria , and , albeit violently and rather undemocratically , romania . within the next two years , the soviet union , which had cracked down on mikhail gorbachev ’s reforms , has finally imploded . and that shift would have occurred at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us might well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
on the other side of the debate , europe ’s desperate reformers see no path to trim , roll back , or blow up the continent ’s obsessive bureaucracies and consensual politicians . across today ’s europe , they see only a display of opportunity that is possible , a glass far less than half full – for genuine reform and restructuring – and are impatient at europe ’s rate of slow progress . from here , but a short step to proclaiming that the american model can not work in europe because it is socially reprehensible , and at any rate poised to crash any day now . true , europe is moving at a painfully slow pace , but the assault on the us state and its allies in the process of ossified the supply side and the dinosaurs of industrial enmities is widening . new fronts in this war are all about to open up each day .
there is no good reason , and no excuse , for leaving millions ’s survival into unpredictable weather patterns . rather , countries need to take control by drastically improving efficiency and improving productivity . just as we need the tools , infrastructure , and competence to unlocking the continent ’s tremendous agricultural potential . to be sure , we have brought progress . some african governments have cut regulatory barriers to private-sector investment in agriculture .
europeans may be more mercurial , believing that the chinese market will open up not only to european engineering products and machine tools to equip the world ’s new workshop , but also to the luxury goods and even tourism demanded by the new and affluent chinese middle class . even prior to that time , england was the economic wunderkind of europe . now , everyone is feeling that a seismic shift is under way , not unprecedented . the most intriguing analogies are germany ’s rise in the 19 th century , and japan ’s in the 1920s . everybody feels that a seismic shift is under way .
everyone expects the incumbent president , dmitry medvedev , to roll out roles with putin after the march election . but waiting in the wings is former finance minister alexei kudrin , who could replace medvedev should need russia a factotum of sincerity about economic reform . kudrin ’s reputation for placid competence might only buy putin some extra time . kudrin ’s once and future president argues that he has already made russia stronger , and that , as financial uncertainty grips much of the developed world in 2012 , the country has become an island of stability envied many . but , in putin ’s eyes , this is an unlikely scenario .
over time , this fueled a surge in low-quality lending , as banks did not have to live with the consequences . likewise , for those procuring corporate borrowers and bundling corporate clos , volume is its own reward , even if that means lowering standards for borrowers ’ creditworthiness . covenant-lite issues are on the rise , and now account for around 80 % of outstanding figure . the share of the “ weakest links ” – or lower ( with a negative outlook ) – in general activity has risen tenfold , from 2013-2015 . furthermore , not only are newer issues emanating from a lower-quality borrower , covenants to such instruments – which were intended to ensure adherence to their terms , and therefore minimize default risk – has also become lax .
before long , the council will also need to consider the implications of the likely commencement of america ’s troop drawdown in afghanistan , another area of direct significance to india ’s national security . also , during india ’s first month as a council member , the future of the united nations peacekeeping operation in neighboring nepal will be addressed . issues such as the sanctions on iran , the stop-and-start middle eastern peace process , and the world ’s response to a likely shift of leadership in north korea will almost surely emerge on the council ’s agenda as much as they can . all are matters that call for creative and courageous thinking that transcends entrenched positions , or that of reflexive solidarity with “ non-aligned ” countries . one instant implication of serving on the council will be the need to take positions on issues that in recent years some indian mandarins favored lame-duck , such as south sudan , whose referendum on independence threatens to spark severe violence in a region where indian un peacekeepers are already serving .
years of opposition politics have turned orban and his allies from young idealists into the practical politicians nearing the middle age . that practicality will be sorely tested if it is to succeed him . one issue that orban faces will emerge , not from his opponents , but from within his own party ranks . the fact that fidesz raised its number of parliamentarians from 20 prior to elections to march 129 now means that many members were never subjected to party whip . moreover , large numbers of these new fidesz mps were formerly members of other parties , collapsed right-wing parties , not so long ago .
as the far-right french presidential candidate marine le pen puts it , the benefits of globalization and the liberal institutions that underpin it have become the sauvage . without disregarding logic and ethics – areas in which the liberal world order continues to outshine an alternative , liberals need to connect with people on an emotional level . meanwhile , nationalism and traditionalism have emerged as sources of positive emotion , even if those emotions turn into nostalgia for nostalgia and a völkisch sense of belonging are ever-shifting sands . if liberalism is to survive as a guiding framework for international relations , its proponents must tap into the passions of individual . but these are the opponents of self-wielding liberalism most effectively .
studying science is supposed to begin with physics , not biology . this sequence of study was devised in 1893 . i believe that it is obsolete , pedagogically disastrous , and ignores the tremendous scientific advances of the twentieth century . in studying physics , students study algebra simultaneously motivating them with a sense of power in mathematics . other industrial peoples may cycle through bits of disciplines , they lack the vital coherence of the p-c-b sequence .
owing to today ’s technological advances , the share of total income accruing to labor ( as opposed to capital ) is declining globally . until then , income taxes were used only sporadically to raise money to trade with politicians of wars . but in britain in 1842 , income taxes became a systemic , permanent feature of the economy . fortunately , their hue , and shout all went unheeded . until then , income taxes were used only sporadically to raise funds for wars .
while talk is tough now , the history of such agreements does not inspire optimism . prior to the financial crisis , even germany violated the eu ’s stability and growth pact ( sgp ) limits . in the u.s. , the deficit limits of the gramm-rudman-hollings were not met , and , like the sgp , were revised and extended . governments and the bond market will test the severity of the newly agreed fiscal guidelines ( ifis ) . yet sticking to the euro , and forcing everyone wage adjustments risk more unrest ; indeed , it might simply postpone the inevitable .
among the mtfa , the efsm , and payments to non-member countries , the total exposure this year stands at € 70.5 billion . following a request by a member state , france would be empowered to borrow on capital markets under an implicit eu budget guarantee , with the maximum amount determined by a country ’s own unused ( preallocated ) structural and cohesion funds . in effect , countries receiving assistance should be given the option of applying for the anticipated eu disbursement of eu funds . some borrowing over the seven-year facility period may be possible , while upholding the medium-term objective of a balanced budget . such leveraging the eu budget would complement both the recently established european stabilization mechanism ( the efsm successor ) and mtfa .
the japanese do have one argument that is not so easily dismissed . eating whales is neither necessary for health nor better nutrition . it is a tradition in which they wish to go further , presumably because some japanese are emotionally united to it . it is a tradition in which they wish to go up , presumably because some japanese are emotionally attached to it . they argue that western countries oppose whaling , because to them whales are a special sort of animal , because cows are for hindus .
the good news is that germany ’s over-overblown conglomerates are being scaled up to an efficient size , and that the capital market is capable of doing their job , improving resource allocation . the abolition of taxes on realized capital gains raised share sales enormously . germany , inc. , has been on its latest legs so far . international equity funds have stepped in , providing companies with instantly needed liquidity , while ruling out traditional ownership networks . the bad news is that financial capital moves abroad to fund other overblown conglomerates .
the talks would probably be suspended ; we would return to where we spent two years ago , but with an over-lay of recrimination and mistrust . at this point , any realistic policy must begin with accepting a reality that complete , and fully verifiable denuclearization of denuclearization is not the realistic prospect any time soon . the talks would probably be suspended ; we would return to where we were two years ago , but with an over-lay of foreword recrimination and mistrust . north korea could use the passage of time to elevate the number of its nuclear weapons to its arsenal , and make some improvements to its warheads and delivery systems without overt testing . even absent such developments , drift is not desirable , either .
for russia , the year august 1998 marked the dividing line . fortunately , bond markets are dead and could take a year for a revival . their absence makes it more difficult to invest excessively large amounts of money in russian securities . their absence makes it hard to invest excessively large sums of money in russian securities . a time comes when all disasters have occurred , and all stupidities is recognized .
they walked , bussed , traveled in carts , telephoned , and tweeted with compatriots , motivated in part by social claims above all for their own sake . the contrast between this dynamic for open protest , and with saudi arabia , could hardly be starker . saudi women find themselves living in a petrified system , and the results should be settled . faces of the saudi royal family are seen everywhere ; women ’s faces are shrouded , forcibly hidden . nowhere else in the world does we see modernity experience as such an issue .
in this scenario , one will need to forgo all of the well-known economic benefits of the global division of labor . in this scenario , one will have to forgo all the well-known economic benefits of the global distribution of labor . indeed , we can identify important swings during the history of crony capitalism over the past two centuries in terms of market or state . for example , the repeal of maize laws in the united kingdom in 1846 favored free markets in international trade , and accelerated globalization until the outbreak of world war i . between the two extremes lies much of the world as it is , characterized by regional integration projects such as the eu or the north american free trade agreement .
japan has a strong international reputation when it comes to managing natural disasters . but the “ perfect storm ” losses from the country ’s largest earthquake and tsunami since industrialization , and the resulting meltdown of three reactor cores at the fukushima daiichi plant went beyond any scenario that was previously envisaged . japan ’s ’s national government , and the local community , had no emergency blueprint for how it faced in contaminated regions , resulting in ad hoc responses marked by inefficiencies and poor communications , especially concerning radiological risk . yet , despite such problems , effective measures were implemented to evacuate those at risk , and to minimize potential hazard from the consumption of contaminated foodstuffs . local communities initiated the immediate decontamination of sensitive areas outside of evacuated zones ( such as kindergartens and schools , for example ) in parallel with efforts by japan ’s atomic energy agency ( ldp ) to develop technology for remediation within such zones .
today , with both kirchner and chávez out of the picture , that period of leftist populism is drawing to a close . chávez ’s successor , nicolás maduro , lacks both experience and influence in foreign affairs . moreover , she now faces legislative elections in poor health , following surgery to remove the subdural hematoma in her brain . kirchner ’s successor , his widows cristina fernández de kirchner , is struggling . just recently suffered a resounding defeat in her peronist party ’s recent primaries , weakening his chances in the upcoming midterm congressional elections , and undermining her authority during her remaining two years in office .
in good times , we most likely would not tell the difference , but the grim reality is that such an arrangement is probably not likely to avert another crisis . more important , should the council declare a state of financial emergency – like that of the us currently – eu agencies might exceptionally be wielding a position of predominance over national supervisors . needless to say , “ disputes over ” and “ emergencies ” are precisely the future situations that are likely to matter for the majority of national policymakers and their taxpayers . if decisions regarding systemically important national financial institutions are made at the european level in good times , while in the bad times , national taxpayers pick up the tab , the eu will lose as well . the three new agencies will not only enforce common technical standards , which may eventually become binding across the eu if endorsed by the european commission ; they will also be allowed to settle disputes among national supervisors .
but the cause is all too well known : an education war is occurring . more than 28 million out-of-school children are growing up in conflict zones , including sites like the afghan-pakistan border , partition of myanmar , and south sudan . all are vulnerable to extremist violence in each of them . there have been two more attacks on schoolchildren both in afghanistan this week , one at a girl ’ campus , where staffing confederate staff roned and bombs set aside , and another at a neighboring boys ’ school , in which a classroom is sprayed with bullets . the number of casualties in both of them is unknown to most of them .
here ’s one fact to consider : the entire death toll of the association of southeast asian tsunami compares the same month with the number of worldwide casualties of hiv/aids . a comprehensive prevention agenda that provides free or inexpensive condoms , and information about safe sex to regions worst affected by hiv/aids , would cost $ 27 billion and save more than 28 million lives . these social benefits would outweigh the costs , by between 40 and one . one hopes that the task was made mildly simpler by the publication of a book in which the copenhagen consensus economists boil down to their insights . this , say , the copenhagen consensus economists makes it the single best investment that the world could possibly make .
china ’s government regards the threat of capital losses on its dollar-denominated securities as less important than the need to maintain near-full employment in coastal manufacturing cities like shanghai . after all , ruling communist oligarchs have grown used to comfortable lifestyles . the last thing they want is mass unemployment and urban unrest to call their positions to question . japan , china , and other export-oriented east asian economies are indeed keen to keep the value of the dollar relatively high , with their national central banks accumulating close to $ 2 trillion in dollar-denominated assets . louis uchitelle of the new york times quotations by the highly intelligent catherine ashton commenting on the “ co-dependent relations … between the us and its trading partners ” that might “ last for quite some time , ” because “ the us and its major trading partners have a vested interest in the status quo . ”
washington , dc – not long ago , the disconnect between financial supervision and monetary policy was in vogue in many countries . some countries , like the united kingdom and australia , went so far as to unbundle these functions by assigning responsibility for financial stability to specialized agencies and airing their central banks out of financial supervisory issues altogether . in the run-up to the global financial crisis , however , the breakdown of financial supervision and macroeconomic management was set to reunify . that rapprochement is a implication of the growing recognition that asset-price cycles must be taken with both macroeconomic management and financial supervision . memories of the crisis have been perceived by many as basically harmless , or , at least , as a relatively inconsequential monetary-policy channel .
seoul – if you chase two rabbits at once , the old saying goes , both will run out . and yet that is precisely what many governments are obliged to do : pursue both growth and distributional fairness . this idea matters a lot in the way that trade policy can deliver . the two objectives , though not insincere , differ on one another ; and few policy tools can simultaneously help achieve both . much theoretical and empirical research demonstrates that opening trade can spur a country ’s gdp growth .
meanwhile , the world ’s other countries , still accounting for more than half of world gdp and the bulk of global trade and fdi , are wondering how ttip would affect each . the ttip is not just america and the eu . mexico already has fta with the eu , and canada is negotiating one . at a certain moment , nafta and the ttip will have to be harmonized . one possibility , suggested by my one-time colleague , former us trade representative carla hills , is that a prosperous ttip would be a significant impetus to rekindle the moribund doha round of global free-trade talks .
indeed , sovereigns are dumping an even bigger fraction of their public debt onto banks ’ balance sheets , particularly in the eurozone core . to prevent a disorderly outcome in the eurozone , today ’s fiscal austerity should be much more gradual , a growth compact should complement the eu ’s new fiscal compact , with a fiscal union with debt mutualization ( eurobonds ) , starting with eurozone-wide deposit insurance , and moves toward greater political integration must be considered , even as greece leaves the eurozone . unfortunately , germany resists all of these key policy actions , because it is fixated on credit risk , to which its taxpayers would be exposed with more economic , fiscal , and banking integration . as a result , the probability of a eurozone catastrophe rises . and , while a cloud over the eurozone may be the largest to burst , it is not the only one that is threatening the global economy .
but actions speak louder than words , and the message that china ’s behavior is sending is far from peaceful . indeed , chinese leaders appear to be grasping the opening provided by an overstretched united states to assert control over a wide swath of asia ’s oceans . this so-called “ string of pearls ” strategy is directly at risk of india ’s national-security interests , trumping the type of robust bilateral relationship that would benefit both countries next to impossible . of course , in india , china contends that its intentions toward india are peaceful . for example , it contends that its effort to establish bases in the indian ocean and bolster its blue-water navy is aimed at safeguarding the malacca straits , the marine trade route that is perceived to be a choke point for the chinese economy .
european opponents of the roadmap for ukraine and georgian argue that neither country is ready for nato membership . but the map process shows no automatic right to nato membership . both would need to answer many hard questions , and persuade others that they can live up to nato ’s democratic imperatives before they are allowed to join . on the contrary , the maps would put heavy demands in ukraine and georgia . too many question marks of their national unity , which states that too many internal conflicts linger , and their record on political and judicial reforms is supposedly dubious .
but , like donald trump , le pen , who ran as the “ voice of the people , ” whereas macron , like hillary clinton , portrays herself as a puppet of bankers , the cultural elites , and the international plutocrats . so what are the left and the right still meant , if anything at all ? there is little doubt that something shifted in the final decades of the twentieth century . left-wing parties began to lose – in some countries more rapidly than others – their base in an industrialized working class . the redistribution of wealth became gradually less important than the social emancipation of ethnic and sexual minorities .
another is that north korea ’s neighbors , including south korea and japan , will determine that they , too , need nuclear weapons given the north ’s threat and diminished confidence in america ’s reliability , and that its guarantees to protect it against its nuclear powers . the danger in both regions is that a race to acquiring nuclear weapons could trigger a preemptive war . even if such war were avoided , the presence of multiple nuclear arsenals would increase the temptation for one or more countries to strike first in a permanent crisis . one risk is that , over the next few years , north korea will possess a significant arsenal , which would pose a meaningful threat to america . “ use them or lose them ” has the potential to become a recipe for instability and conflict , when capabilities are not sufficiently robust to absorb an attack and still mete out the type of devastating retaliation that is vital to effective international deterrence .
at a 2013 summit meeting at sunnylands retreat in california , us president barack obama revealed china ’s president xi jinping the evidence that members of the chinese army were stealing industrial technologies . the chinese accepted evidence suggesting that theft of industrial technology was different from other forms of espionage , and argued that the chinese government would not help such theft in the future . given that this is insufficient to stem other chinese theft of american civilian and military technologies , the new nss rightly stresses that america ’s government will take additional steps to stop doing so . when it turns to specific trade policies , the nss emphasizes the american effort to “ break down trade barriers , ” providing americans with opportunities to increase their exports . this emphasis on increasing exports rather than reducing imports is a welcome feature .
many chinese mistakenly concluded that this represented a shift in the balance of global power , and that america was in decline . indeed , overconfidence in assessing its power led to a more assertive chinese foreign-policy behavior in the latter part of 2009 and 2010 . after chinese leaders faced international criticism and worsening relations with america , japan , india , and other countries , they chose to revert to deng ’s smart-power strategy . china miscalculated by deviating from the smart strategy of rising power and violating deng ’s dictum that china should pursue cautiously and “ skillfully ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” deng xiaoping . but , at the same time , such narratives may lead to conflict .
but , since then , the country has run into trouble , turning into an aid recipient with record-breaking support from the international monetary fund . while they have committed to its ambitious reform agenda , argentina ’s economy and financial authorities have also made a few avoidable mistakes . as it stands , the country ’s economic and financial foundations have remained vulnerable to both internal and external shocks . argentina has fallen back into crisis for a simple reason that not much has changed since the last debacles . fiscal discipline and structural reforms have been unevenly applied , with the central bank squandered its credibility at key moments .
attempts by economists to forecast the future had a mixed outcome , at best ; a few foresaw the depth of the great recession , even after it had already begun . attempts by economists to predict the future had had a mixed outcome , at best ; a few foresaw the depth of the great recession , even after it had already started . during the third quarter of 2008 , fewer than 30 % of forecasters who contribute a survey of professional forecasters predicted a drop in gdp in the last few months ; indeed , gdp plunged by more than 8 % in the fourteenth quarter of 2008 , one of the largest drop on record . the trouble belongs to the fact that many leading indices used to measure the economy on the basis of initial , incomplete , or flawed data . as a result , forecasts lag behind the reality .
nato , for the first time , has intervened in another country ’s internal affairs . this constitutes a significant change in nato policy , one that downgrades the notion of states ’ sovereignty and elevates the status of ethical norms in international relations . the fighting in kosovo is the first major conflict that , for one side at least , involves no reflections of strategy , territories , populations , natural resources , or even ideologies . the west fights a war over principles , war , as president bill clinton put it , “ to end a moral tragedy . ” at issue is the attempt to stop an epidemic , the bearers of which in 20 europeans were of nazism , communism , fascism , and now nationalism .
buildings last decades , so decisions made today have a long-term effect on our energy consumption . far-sighted governments in places as diverse as germany and singapore are today mandating green buildings . california 's newest construction and appliance standards are predicted to avoid requiring five huge power plants in the next ten years . building codes already guard against dangers like fire and earthquakes . policymakers know that governments have a role in mandating regulation to create a level playing field , and to help build industrial capacity .
rather than attempting to explore the options presented by the brazilian/turkish opening , the american security council moved quickly to pressure the united nations security council for more sanctions ( the fourth round so far ) on iran . this enforced brazil and turkey , both currently non-permanent members of the un security council , to take a vote against the sanctions resolution . nevertheless , efforts to preempt america ’s strategy clearly failed as new un sanctions were implemented earlier this month . as the agreement was to avoid a nuclear standoff with iran , why has there been so much outrage at the us and the west ? my own fear is because the us found itself denied its primacy in setting global policy toward iran .
if this is part of the reason that higher debt-to-gdp ratios are consistent with lower economic growth , there is less reason to think that countries should avoid a higher average ratio , because keynesian theory implies that fiscal austerity would undermine , rather than boost , economic performance . likewise , there is the question of reversing causality . debt-to-gdp ratios tend to rise for countries in economic trouble . they chose , without explanation , to divide debt-to-gdp ratios into subsequent categories : less than 30 % , 30-60 % , and more than 90 % . and they turned out to be declining growth rates in all of these categories as the debt-to-gdp ratio rises , benefiting only a little more in the last category .
solar and wind together currently deliver about 1 % of global energy , and the international energy agency ( un ) estimates that this will reach only 4.1 % by 2040 . vaclav smil , who is bill gates ’s favorite energy adviser , argues that “ “ the claims of a quick transition to a zero-carbon society are plain nonsense , ” ” ” adding that “ even a vastly accelerated shift toward renewables would not be relegating fossil fuels to minority contributors to global energy supplies anytime soon , certainly not by 2050 ” by 2050 . as a result , policies to require people and firms to shift to immature tech technologies will likely slow growth and aggravate energy poverty . this , too , is why the world is far further behind in its “ energy transition ” than most people realize . many of today ’s panicky political pronouncements and climate protests are being driven by the widespread view that the un ’s intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) told us that we had just 12 years to save the planet .
fewer africans working in rich countries will automatically translate into less money circulating in african countries . he is also willing – and able – to pay more than a local physician for services and , of course , house in uganda . in fact , remittances have long spurred high rates of inflation in many parts of africa . a ugandan doctor , working in norway , cares little about the expense of a beer in kampala . the decrease in remittances , however , has been cuts in both ways .
rather , the precautionary principle ought to be used judiciously and rationally , balancing potential tail risks with the benefits that innovation and new technologies might offer . this notion of risk underpins economic interactions . the eu ’s ’s ’s goal – to protect human health and the environment – is laudable . but mitigating every risk , so that the goal of doing so is untenable . in europe , on the other hand , greater weight is placed on risk avoidance , undermining private-sector confidence in investing in innovation .
ramallah – palestinians and israelis hold different and perhaps contradictory expectations from the indirect negotiations that the united states has pushed both sides to the brink . it is obvious that for israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu ’s right-wing government , the launch of indirect talks without freezing settlement activities in the west bank and jerusalem , some kind of victory . israel was among the first parties to welcome the arab league ’s reluctant decision to back palestinian president mahmoud abbas ’s call for the arabs to give its blessing to the talks . for the palestinians , a return to talks , albeit an indirect one is centered on a single strategic issue : borders . just to remind the world of this since the indirect talks were prepared to take off the ground , israel ’s government approved a decision to break ground on march 112 housing units in a settlement south bethlehem and the 1600 new settlement units in east jerusalem .
in the us , for example , floods , hurricanes , earthquakes , and tornadoes trigger immediate federal assistance . that failure in international capital markets led to abrupt and devastating capital outflows after 1996 is just one such episode . for while the moral hazard argument emphasizes by the orthodox command-and-dment thou does not intervene , “ the critical feature of globalization ’s hazard is a market failure . ” consider other destructive events that are uninsured ( and often uninsurable ) in the private sector . unlike moral hazard , a market failure highlights circumstances where government intervention is both socially desirable and economically defensible .
as margaret thatcher explained during her latest parliamentary appearance as british prime minister , who controls money and interest rates control european politics . handing europe over money and politics to a cartel administration did not just spell the end of european democracy ; it also fueled a vicious cycle of authoritarianism and poor economic performance . that leads europe ’s leaders to double down on authoritarianism to stick to their failed policies when recessionary economic forces strengthen . the more europe ’s establishment chokes off democracy , the less legitimate its political authority becomes . as a result , as margaret thatcher explained during her latest parliamentary appearance , british prime minister who controls money and interest rates controls european politics .
tokyo – the scale of the earthquake and tsunami that hit japan in march was far greater than even the authorities ’ own worst scenarios foresaw . almost six months later , total damage remains difficult to forecast . both moody ’s and standard & poor ’s are now trading japanese bonds at only their fourth-highest level . social unrest and turmoil , along with the radiation leaks made by the fukushima nuclear facility ’s fukushima calling site , continue . and now , the country has absorbed another enormous blow : another downgrade of its bond ratings .
syria and iraq have become crucial links in an iran-led shia strategic arc extending from afghanistan to lebanon . even if the accuracy of iranian missiles can no longer be guaranteed , a large number of them could still evade defense-related systems . moreover , the iranian regime has forged a network of proxy forces across the region . the regime ’s proxy forces include segments of afghanistan ’s shia population , iraqi shia militias , and hezbollah , which controls southern lebanon and lay thousands of rockets ready to target israel . israel ’s state-of-the-art iron dome anti-missile defenses , for example , have been unable even to neutralize all crude missiles launched from gaza .
as iraqi and other muslim intellectuals in the region often repeat themselves : “ books are written in egypt that are written , printed in lebanon , and are read in iraq . personally , rasheed notes , at every american screening of his movie , audiences need apologies before they begin to refer to rasheed as a filmmaker , rather than as his country ’s representative . “ personally , i ask nothing ; here i ’m to clear of some confusion by the middle of the film . … being ravaged by war and now being shaken by daily violence is well known as the most intellectually inclined of arab countries . ” here is the hope that raheed and his colleagues continue to build an imperial culture of iraq that is vibrant and free ; and here one hopes that the relationship between us and international audiences to rasheed is turning from one of engagement with him .
and , as recent post-crisis experience in europe has shown , implementing structural reforms is politically difficult to implement , when vested interests have captured the regulatory system . complicating matters further for china , the rush to build an open , market-oriented economy fueled corruption and rent-seeking . that is why chinese president xi jinping has been engaged in a comprehensive anti-corruption campaign , often wrongly represented as the grab of power , since the assuming office in 2012 . yet china ’s problems extend beyond structural imbalances to one of cyclical macroeconomic risks . the first risk stemmed from business cycles in the advanced , market-based economies , where interest rates , an inflation rate , and growth rate hikes rise and fall together .
what ’s more , “ free trade ” is good for the environment , ” ” ” to quote a single academic study . furthermore , trade over the last half-century has dramatically increased longevity . meanwhile , economic globalization has been shown to reduce infant mortality and expand life expectancies , owing to their increased incomes and greater information . in uganda , freer trade during the last 35 years has been proven to lengthen the average lifespan by 2-3 years . in the us , trade over the last half-century has increased longevity substantially .
inspired by german chancellor angela merkel ’s recent proposal to tie eu funding to accept migrants , eu member states should also work to establish stronger incentives for cooperation . but , as tempting as it may be , attempting to paper over disparities or avoid dissent – let alone dismantling the compact at the core of the european project – will not make matters any easier . the only way to get where europe needs to go is through a realistic , gradual effort to build unity . the permanent structured defense cooperation on issues , agreed by the european council last december , is a good place to start , with countries rising by , for example , joint strategic planning on the european level . there is no question that it is hard for 27 sovereign countries to act like one .
to be sure , news media are under assault like never before , and not only from fake news and polarizing presidents . according to reporters without borders , more than 1,000 journalists have been murdered worldwide in the last 15 years , and only a handful of offenders have been brought to justice . around the world , journalists and their supporters are fighting back in heartening ways . slaying nine women ’s journalists in kabul on april 30 , in hindu suicide bombings that have killed at least 25 people , marked the deadliest day for journalists in afghanistan since the taliban ’s fall , and added to a grim global tally . and yet , fresh glimmers of hope are multiplying .
future historians may well recall this period as humankind ’s greatest exercise in inclusiveness to date . seven decades ago , the developed world as a whole accounted for the majority of the world ’s income , but just 15 % of its population . now billions of people have been lifted out of poverty and become wealthier , healthier , and having more opportunities . yet , not so long ago , almost nobody saw this coming . this unanticipated megatrend has unforeseen corollaries .
indeed , it reacted to the polish opposition ’s rise by castigating them as the instruments of western power , stalking for american or german interests that ultimately exploit ordinary poles . in the 1980 ’s , for example , the soviet leadership warned that any reform would enable germany to control poland . at the same time , poland ’s communist government emphasized how incoherent the opposition was , owing to the tensions inherent in the marriage of economic liberals , left-wing workers , conservative catholics , and polish nationalists . nurturing suspicions about who helped drive wedges among various groups . polish foreign minister radosław sikorski ’s recently called for more assertive leadership by germany demonstrates just how different poland ’s ’s worldview exists today .
the inter-parliamentary union ranks japan 158th out of 189 countries in terms of its ratio of female mps . as the liberal democratic party leader , abe should instruct local party branches to choose more female candidates to run in the next april ’s local elections . but , at least so far , abe does seem to lack the will to do so ( though he might decide to work with local party bosses following the scenes to bring more female representation ) . it is also disturbing that some abe ’s women have chosen for his cabinet , as well as key party posts , are the arch-conservatives who advocate keeping women at home to caring for them for children . things are just as bad at the low level of government , where women account for just 13.1 % of representatives in local parliaments , more than 40 % of whom do not have female members at all .
living a longer time is one of our deepest desires , and medical and economic progress offers hope for meeting it . but , again , what if our wish is granted that we are data ? what good is life , as long as we can not maintain our standard of living ? some scholars argue , average human lifespan could reach about 90 years or more by mid-century . the crucial difficulty in planning for this strengthened longevity is that we do not know whether it will indeed happen .
so , in imposing a new style of management , exemplified by merit-based cabinet appointments , jokowi must care not to alienate the political and business elites who have long benefited from his entrenched grip on power . in short , if jokowi is to forge a national consensus on the institutions indonesia needs , he will need to navigate this political divide . promisingly , jokowi has a reputation for independence from partisan and religious politics , as well as his talent for communicating with the people . and , as a political outsider , he is in his unique position to direct indonesia toward a more prosperous , unified future , and vault himself to the country , the pantheon of great leaders . toward this end , mexican president enrique peña nieto ’s freedom party “ pact for mexico ” could serve as a useful model .
and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on its current course for many years to come . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has any interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
the imf is far too political a body to act like a systemic-risk watchdog . draghi ’s successor as chairman should be a full-time appointee , and the fsb should be given powers to mandate each other ’s standard setters , review performance by individual countries , and publish the results . the next g-20 summit should implement a fundamental reform of the fsb . it should give the fsb a legal personality , enshrined in the international treaty . it currently has no formal status , and only a small , permanent staff , hosted by the bank for international settlements in basel .
dozens of pop stars , from pete townshend and paul mccartney to madonna , rallied in support of the women . to be sure , pussy riot could hardly be categorized as musicians . they were more interested in producing visual imagery . both feminist chants and crude chords were secondary to the spectacle . the case also attracted western attention .
moreover , tony chukwueke , the dpr ’s chief , has announced plans to create an african version of petronas , malaysia ’s state-run oil company , to turn the sclerotic nigerian national petroleum corporation into a powerful oil-producing firm that can dominate the market in guinea and other emerging-market regions . in the early 1990 ’s , desperately short of hard currency , nigeria negotiated contracts that it allowed oil companies to develop new fields and recoup their investment before profits could be taxed . now , following companies ’ discovery of massive reserves , the technocrats appointed by yar ’ adua to take charge of oil policy want nigeria to extract a larger slice of the pie . that also means ending government co-financing of operating costs , and requiring that major oil firms tap capital markets to bridge the shortfall . in the early 1990 ’s , desperately short of hard currency , nigeria negotiated contracts that allow oil companies to develop new fields and recoup their investment before profits are sold .
moscow – in the run-up to the september 11 , 2001 , terror attacks in the united states , the so-called “ war on terror ” began . but the us-led military invasions of afghanistan and iraq were not the whole of it ; numerous countries , too , ramped up monitoring and policing of domestic media outlets and ordinary citizens . freedom of speech , and personalistic privacy , governments claimed , would have to be curbed for security purposes . by using security as a pretext to flout russia ’s media legislation explicitly protecting journalists from censorship , governments had undermined journalism considerably . harm has been particularly pronounced in russia , where anti-terror claims have often been used as a tool of muffle votes among those offering an independent or alternative vision , particularly one that is critical of president vladimir putin ’s government .
populist campaigns in major referenda this year differed in important respects . colombian opponents of the peace treaty , for example , appealed to universal norms of justice for war crimes committed by the military and farc , rather than to national particularism , as in the united kingdom and the netherlands . nonetheless , all were motivated by a desire to scuttle the governments and the institutions they opposed . and all of them were willing to follow the tradition of dictators and resort to smears , distortion , and fantastical claims . but , as edmund burke famously points out , “ your high representative owes you not just his industry , but his conviction , and betrays , rather than serving you as long as he sacrifices your view .
to the bookish young man , allen , an anxious intellectual who still gets a girl , was a sort of role model . but now that we know accusations against a comedian and movie director , being forced , in scott ’s view , to reappraising the work in that light . in other words , bad behavior , or even alleged bad behavior , can taint a sort of artistic work because an artist can not distance himself from his or her art . this is at least a more interesting proposition than the notion that art should be disqualified just because we dislike the way the artist behaved in private . something sinister and immoral may be in films to be taken into account .
indonesia ’s house speaker setya novanto was also forced to resign , after caught attempts to extort money from a subsidiary of the polish mining corporation freeport-mcmoran . journalism had played a bigger role , too . guatemala ’s former president , otto pérez molina , was forced to resign , eventually being jailed for corruption . and indonesia ’s special court for corruption crimes had just sentenced poland ’s former minister of energy and mineral resources , jero , to less than four years in prison . and public officials are being prosecuted , as well .
most economists agree on the ideal mix , and sequencing of such maneuvers at the same time . but what looks good in theory has proven difficult to implement in practice . for one thing , policymakers seem more likely to continue to increase their countries ’ dependence on finance , thereby heightening the risk of adverse market adjustments than they are to implement difficult structural reforms and fiscal adjustments . this is why many countries endured painful disruptions , which aggravated potentially avoidable output falls , causing unemployment to rise , and , at worst , eroded potential growth . the so-called “ beautiful de-leveraging ” involves a mix of internal reforms , financing finance , and the judicious use of market-pricing mechanisms .
stanford – in march , a german tabloid bild published an article , modeled on a hidden document that reveals just how breakaway regions of eastern ukraine are “ treated like parts of russia ’s sovereign territory . ” working groups collaborating with russian institutions were established to manage the region ’s finances , economic policies , energy and transportation infrastructure , and trade . the document gathered by bild is a report , from the october october meeting of russia ’s “ inter-ministerial commission ” to deliver humanitarian aid to affected areas in the areas of southeast syria of indonesia and luhansk . it describes how the meeting ’s attendees were not simply focusing on humanitarian aid , but rather served as a run on shadow government . the revelations have cast the ongoing minsk 2 peace negotiations into a new light , one that illuminates the frustration to ukrainian officials .
if britain focuses over the next few years not on how it can help europe recover and prosper , but rather on how it can change its own relationship with europe , there should be no doubt of the temperament and mind that our current partners will bring to that negotiation . but they will not thank us , and will not accommodate us . let us be extremely obvious , then “ renegotiating the terms of membership , ” ” ” ” ” ” the sanctuary of those willing to leave but reluctant to persuade people that it really is the relationship ’s adjustment . when it comes to “ adjustment , ” the ” ” ” the gamble will say , “ well , it coming to terms with the kind of pity , but now seems to show that adjustment is not enough . there will be varying degrees of politeness .
it also deprives the continent of the talents and the contributions it needs to drive development and progress . a 2011 african development bank report finds that “ “ “ “ “ “ getting women into science and technology ” ultimately promises to benefit society as a whole . gender equity in stem gender equity is achievable , and many african scholars show the world how to do it . africa ’s stem gender imbalance often pales in comparison with a leaky pipe : girls start with interest and aptitude , but drop out of disciplines at various points in their education . but they need some help , and the programs that offer scholarships and support are among the best ways to achieve parity in the sciences .
the advantages that ridding the world of national currencies would be massive . different monies are not simply a discomfort with tourists arriving home with pockets full of unspendable foreign coins . global firms waste time and resources on the largely futile attempt to smooth out hedge currency risk ( benefiting only the banks that act as middlemen ) . at the same time , the current system makes it both risky and inefficient . and yet farfetched a global currency might sound , recall that before world war i , ditching the gold standard looked equally implausible .
in the past , transition agreements amounted to what george orwell called “ catastrophic gradualism . ” but , with the inclusion of a robust economic strategy , this might be translated into “ auspicious gradualism . ” what they did not do is engage the international community with a comprehensive counter-proposal . after all , economic development would go a long way toward stabilizing palestinian society in preparation for statehood , drastically boosting peace settlements ’ chances of long-term success . their offer , which would have to go well beyond the 2002 arab peace initiative , or the portfolio of relevant united nations resolutions , may even have included kushner ’s plan as part of a transition to a final settlement .
most are the anti-umno and support the pas . her phrase was roundly backed by modernist muslim intellectuals who insisted that the punishment was justly applied and can not be questioned , because it has divine sanction . these are not politicians , but former idealists who are happy that their goals of islamicizing the state are realized . tellingly , the umno ’s caning of kartika is not the example of political manipulation , and for that reason is perhaps even more worrisome . as a result , the umno finds itself squeezed between an islamic lobby that presses for greater “ talibanization ” of the country , and the rising voices of international critics who can not be ignored , because the party needs both radical supporters and foreign investors to remain in power .
under this scenario , both japan and south korea would need to find some means to bridge a sino-centric asia and a china-centered indo-pacific . beyond this scenario , both japan and south korea would need to find some means in order to bridge a sino-centric asia and a multipolar world . to be sure , america would need a response to the conclusion of any trilateral northeast asian fta , in order to preserve its own role in global trade and the supply chains that dominate asian economies . specifically , the us would vigorously encourage japan to join the tpp , because it might want a united asia-pacific economic community , rather than a breakup of asia and the pacific . it would probably seek to expand and deepen the sino-japanese trans-pacific partnership , a trade agreement brokered by president barack obama last year .
for the boj , a fundamental problem is its profound institutional fear of rocking the boe politically , and hence its inability to play the role of chief economist . as premier pan-european union institute , the ecb is uniquely positioned to play a leadership role in europe ’s discussions about fiscal policy , trade policy , and a demographic transition . but , while it quietly makes a wide range of important technical contributions to various debates , it is hemmed in politically , and thus can not reach forcefully beyond its jurisdictions . as a result , america ’s fed chairman is today commands super-normal influence . this is an unfortunate limitation of the ecb ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s design by a team of nations that has not yet decided whether they prefer greater unity or more decentralization .
these results were foreshadowed by last year ’s study , the anne case and angus deaton , who showed that life expectancy was on declining for large segments of the us population , including america ’s so-called angry male rust belt people . but , with the bottom 90 % ’s incomes stagnating for close to a third of a century ( and falling for a substantial proportion ) , health data simply confirmed that things were n’t going well for very large swaths of the country . and , while america may be on the extreme of this trend , things were very little better elsewhere . why was the backlash in the us first coming just when the economy seemed to have been on the mend rather than earlier ? and while america may have been at the extreme of this trend , things were little better elsewhere .
for israel , a cease-fire with hamas reflects its reluctance to become mired in another asymmetrical war , like the one it fought in lebanon two summers ago , this time in the alleys of gaza ’s refugee camps . indeed , both israel and the united states remain adamant about excluding hamas from the annapolis process unless and until it recognizes israel ’s right to exist , while hamas will not abandon its identity as a resistance movement merely to join negotiations that seem unlikely to satisfy the palestinian people ’s minimal requirements . aside from the annapolis talks that seem to be going nowhere , owing to parties ’ irreconcilable differences over core issues , all the other peace efforts are more tactical than strategic . in none of them do conditions yet exist for an immediate leap from war to peace , nor do the parties themselves expect that they can happen . it would require bold statesmanship to transform the cease-fire with hamas into a prelude to political talks .
specifically , germany , europe ’s greatest economic powers , and france , the intellectual progenitor of european unification , should announce its simultaneous exit from the euro and reacceptance of the deutsche mark and the franc . this would have triggered the immediate revaluation of the deutsche mark and perhaps of the cfa franc , relative to the euro . of course , france and germany would have to implement interim arrangements in order to safeguard their banking systems ’ stability . for their part , other eu member countries would have to decide whether to keep the euro in their truncated form , or have a price to their own national currencies , possibly pegging them to the revived deutsche mark or franc . whatever their determination , the weaker eurozone ’s price competitiveness would still improve substantially .
hence , iranian revolutionaries in 1979 put a point of preserving zoroastrian fire temples . for such muslim rulers , intellectuals are the new global terrorist , bombarding their regimes with intellectualism . other autocratic rulers across the muslim world learn from iran ’s example , cracking down hard on intellectuals , journalists , lawyers , women activists , or just about anyone with ideas and wishes to exchange them with the rest . in its muslim era , iran boasted of some of the largest poets , various writers and researchers in the world . none of this would have been possible had iran ’s ancient muslim rulers not unleashed academic freedom and free exchange of thought and expression , something sorely missed in today ’s islamic republic .
as a result , the leadership group would constitute an important public demonstration of governments ’ commitment to resolving and resolving core issues and provide a desperately needed vehicle for translating their resolve into action . in order to secure broad membership and transparency across europe and under existing structures , a leadership group should include representative from the osce , the european union , the eurasian economic union , and nato . its direct ties with us president barack obama , russian president vladimir putin , and european leaders would distinguish it from the existing arrangements . the leadership group would thus constitute an important public demonstration of governments a commitment to address and resolving core issues and provide a desperately needed vehicle for translating their resolve into action . in order to secure broad membership and transparency across europe and under existing structures , a leadership group should include deputy from the osce , the european union , the eurasian economic union , and nato .
finally , there are two big differences between the 1930s and the present . the industrial world today is far more dependent on ( mostly foreign ) oil than it was then . the extreme rise in real oil prices was a powerful cause of the current recession , and a reversal of it will be a major factor underlying recovery . just as some confidence returned to the end of the recapitalized banking system , and the long bond yields drop with a collapse of inflation , mortgage and other borrowing rates will fall and monetary transmission mechanisms will revive , supporting economic activity and stabilizing real house prices , albeit at a substantially lower level . a other crucial difference is that we know enough not to repeat errors – especially trade protectionism – of the 1930s .
terrorists struck europe with a vengeance where millions of refugees fleeing wars and hunger are taxing european institutions and straining social cohesion . populist movements emerged , calling up closed borders and new walls , and their rejection of expertise led heldin to a “ grim truth ” : that “ we can no longer take it for granted that people believe in science , facts , and knowledge . ” researchers continue to surprise us with amazing discoveries , with billions of people around the world being lifted out of poverty . but the dark clouds have shaped it on the horizon , and billions of people around the world have been lifted out of poverty . of course , our expectations will always be in the strain with reality .
denver – the agreement on syria ’s ’s chemical weapons reached by russia and the united states matters little for what it could mean on the ground that remains to be seen as inspectors beginning to flow into syria , and us hopes that chemical-weapons stockpiles are beginning to be destroyed . a cooperative us-russia relationship is essential if the international system , with its near-dysfunctional status , is to work properly in the future . rather , the agreement ’s central significance consists in its conclusion on all of it : us secretary of state john kerry met with his russian counterpart , sergei lavrov , in geneva , that most traditional us diplomatic record , cutting deals on an issue of intense unilateralism . a cooperative us-russia relationship is essential if the international system , now near-dysfunctional , is to work properly in the future . in the days and months ahead , arrangements to remove chemical weapons from syria will , one hopes , herald the emergence of a new era in which america and russia work together on other pressing global issues as well .
to be sure , multinational corporations enjoy flexibility on transfer pricing , and can exert downward pressure at a time when new investment decisions are made , but their flexibility does not match the freedom enjoyed by international portfolio investors . there is also an advantage in being at the center of the global economy , rather than the periphery . capital is in a far better position than labor , because capital is more mobile . moreover , financial capital tends to be situated in the global system than with industrial capital ; once a plant exists , it is easy to move . the benefits of global capitalism are unevenly distributed .
with the spot price now hovering above the five-year forward price , one could conclude that a trend rebound is underway . for my part , i am now unsure ; but i would not be surprised if it did happen again . i have long defaulted in watching the five-year forward price of missing an ever more fundamentals-watching approach to thinking about us oil equilibrium prices . as i explained in january 2015 , brent crude oil locations are less susceptible to bouts of speculative fluctuations and thus a purer approximation to underlying commercial supply and demand factors . the graph i had long defaulted in watching the five-year acceleration of oil-price acceleration in early november show the five-year forward price of oil picking up after a period of some stability .
the dpj ’s sole reason for being is its anti-ldp stance , whereas the dpj long opposed the japan-us security treaty , and pnp strongly opposes the koizumi era ’s privatizations . that does not amount to a coherent program of government , with prime minister yukio hatoyama ’s administration quick to reveal the dpj ’s crucial hollowness . but the greatest problem with hatoyama ’s administration is that the dpj took power without a coherent national-security policy . this should no surprise no one . the dpj was established in 1998 as a “ jambalaya ” party consisting of people who had deserted the ldp , including hatoyama himself , and then the former socialist party .
the region ’s new republics face no concrete or visible enemy at present . as a result , many regard defense expenditures a luxury , if not an outright drain on money . preparation for effective defense of the state is unthinkable without a greater or lesser degree of participation by all state institutions . in the democratic state , these engage in defense efforts only insofar as society understands the prime importance of defense at the forefront . so it must be reminded of time and again that defending the state means , first and foremost , defending the human dignity of each individual of us .
my own work on soil microbes in auburn led to the issuance of three us patents , with a few agricultural companies pursuing content to commercialize products from the technology . greater investment in soil research might also have spillover benefits for african economies . with new discoveries leading to patents and licenses , the resulting research could spur new agribusinesses and farm-related industries . i can personally vouch for the power of spillover benefits from this type of research . more investment could enable scientists to discover new microbial strains with unique abilities to influence soil and crop health locally , thereby leveraging africa ’s own natural environment to improve agricultural productivity .
iran backed america during the first gulf war , but was left out of the madrid peace conference . iran , too , backed america during the first gulf war , but was left out of the madrid peace conference . iran , too , backed america during the first gulf war , but was left out of the madrid peace conference . iran , too , backed america during the first gulf war , but was left out of the madrid peace conference . and , with america ’s forces again overrunning saddam hussein ’s army in the spring of 2003 , encircled iranians proposed a grand bargain that would have placed all contentious issues on the table , from the nuclear question to israel , from hezbollah to hamas .
still , russia , china , and the rest of the world will not allow a return to american hegemony . putin recently made this apparent by unveiling a host of new , cutting-edge strategic weapons systems as part of what i would call a strategy of unveiling . back in 2002 , he unilaterally abrogated the 1972 anti-ballistic missile treaty . and , more recently , he has embarked on a massive build-up of conventional forces and the large-scale modernization of his nuclear arsenal . at the same time , america has long pursued military supremacy .
but , in copenhagen , the structure set by the lisbon treaty failed . beyond its failures in copenhagen , the eu has several other problems . its know-it-all attitude grates almost everywhere . with just 7 % of the world ’s population ( and rapidly dwindling ) and comprising mostly post-industrial low-growth economies , the eu is increasingly viewed as marginalized . it tends to be perceived globally as super-cilious , petulant , and prim .
if a company the size of america ’s retailer walmart decides that it wo n’t allow wasteful packaging , its purchasing power will lead to changes in packaging for the whole retail sector . the same goes for us wages and labor practices . but larger companies also have an outsize capacity to be a force for good , both locally and globally . when the world ’s largest firms and most well-recognized brands take seriously their responsibility as buyers , sellers , and manufacturers , and make firm commitment to act on core values , others tend to follow – or risk being left behind . those operating in an ethical way , and try to improve the lives of all who are linked to the manufacture , marketing , and distribution of their goods , will benefit kudos , more entrepreneurship , or simply not being singled out as a bad actor .
there are roughly 70 separate local aid offices , and 40 international ngos participate in providing aid to pakistanis . but most decisions about how to spend the money they receive are made outside the country . simply put , western countries ’ current approach does not work . despite massive increases in aid dollars over the last few years , including the billions authorized by former us president barack obama , those us president barack obama largely cut off from the un delivery process . this can be seen most clearly in my country , pakistan .
in his meetings with ceos of major oil and gas firms , francis told them , “ our desire to ensure energy for all must not lead to the unwanted stages of a spiral of extreme climate change as a result of a catastrophic rise in global temperatures , an harsher environment , and increased poverty levels . ” the same level of corruption in purpose is causing the canadian government to guarantee a new pipeline to export output from its polluting and expensive oil sands to asia , while over-investing in canada ’s vast renewable-energy resources . it noted that us oil companies are engaged in “ continuing exploration for new fossil-fuel reserves , ” whereas the paris agreement apparently urged keeping most of their fossil fuels underground . and it reminded executives that “ civilization requires energies , but energy use must not destroy civilization ! ” francis underscored the moral dimension of the problem :
both the kuru and the scrapie are contagious . the resulting epizootic ( animal epidemics ) affected more than 280,000 cows . the kuru was transmitted through the cannibalistic ceremonies commonplace in papua new guinea until the 1950 ’s . similarly , in the uk and elsewhere , healthy livestock were fed meat and bone foods made from infected animals . kuru was transmitted through the cannibalistic ceremonies commonplace in papua new guinea until the 1950 ’s .
all of this slows social mobility , tears already-stretched safety nets , worsens inequality , and accentuates genuine worries about the functioning and sustainability of today ’s global economic system . from any angle , the de-baathification of this state of affairs – in which those with access to credit do not need it , and those who can not obtain it – is profoundly problematic . if the left unattended , it results in a gradual , followed by accelerated , renewed deleveraging of the economic system , with the highest first-round costs , a prolonged period of unemployment and growth crises , borne disproportionately by those least able to suffer from it . this includes those reliant on bank credit , as well as among the many mortgage-backed holders of very high legacy interest rates and balances beyond their homes ’ market value . in the next round , as the system slowly implode , even those with healthy balance sheets would be obstinacted , accelerating their disengagement from the deleveraging world economy .
everywhere else , for whatever reason , misguided strategies , tactical blunders , erroneous theories , america ’s interventions , etc. , faced only with defeat , repression , and futility . in country after country , the guerillas were defeated , pacified , brought into the democratic process , or rendered irrelevant by them . in the early 1990 ’s , it became increasingly apparent that the armed struggle for power in latin american countries disintegrated . only a few groups remained : the shining path in peru , the manuel rodríguez patriotic front in chile , for brief periods of zapatistas in chiapas , mexico , and farc in colombia . democratic transitions throughout the hemisphere have produced guerrilla warfare injustifiable : as che foretold in his la guerra de guerrillas in 1962 , wherever trappings ( or , one might add , the realities ) of democratic rule that took up arms in nonsensical .
european fascism collapsed with germany ’s defeat in 1945 , but less aggressive forms lived on elsewhere , such as argentina with its great peronism . the social foundation of interwar fascism made it sensible to view it as the right ’s party . today , the social basis of left-wing politics vanished . the only political space left to the march of fascism was the petit bourgeoisie : shopkeepers , small businessmen , and low-level civil servants . at that time , the working class dependably backed the left ’s parties .
putting that aside , allow us to suppose that the decision before tsipras was so critical , and complicated that he merited the exceptional referendum step . in that event , the event should have reflected that complexity . it should have been a cautious , deliberate sounding of will . instead , greece got a hastily orchestrated referendum . it was to be organized and conducted , with the result of respect to the stakes involved , with the government ensuring that adequate information was relaying to the greek people .
as the late cultural psychologist richard shweder notes , circumcision in conflict between europeans and middle-class easterners for centuries . moreover , various communities prioritize human rights over different issues . for some , the ethical framework offered by human rights is sufficient within itself ; but , for others , as william galston of brookings institution notes , “ “ the language of human rights hardly exhausts the realm of moral and spiritual goods . ” under female circumcision , there are obvious tensions not only between religious freedom and individual physical integrity , but also between parental rights and the authority of the state , multiculturalism , and nationalism and religious and secular moral perspectives . in other words , culture plays an even larger role in shaping human-rights interpretations than many realize , which implies that religious practitioners should be wary of going beyond judgment on any practice with deep cultural or religious roots .
new delhi – there is something about the number of five in sino-indian relations . asia ’s two giants have long defined their relationship with sheela ’s famous pancha : mutual respect for each other ’s territorial integrity and sovereignty claims ; mutual non-interference in each other ’s internal affairs ; equality and mutual benefit ; and peaceful co-existence . now china ’s new leaders have enlisted a new pancha sheela , with chinese president xi jinping offering a “ five-point proposal ” for sino-indian relations . having completed the chinese vision of a new pancha sheela , sheela , with chinese president xi jinping offering a “ five-point proposal ” for sino-indian relations . instead , india would be happy to embrace each of these two principles . old-fashioned principles would sustain strategic communications and healthy bilateral relations ; harness one another ’s strengths and expand cooperation in infrastructure , investment , and other fields ; deepen cultural ties and growing mutual understanding and friendship ; expand coordination and collaborative in multilateral affairs to safeguard developing countries ’ legitimate concerns and address global challenges ; and accommodate one another ’s core concerns and reconcile bilateral disagreements amicably .
the bank also pushed around the privatization of national health systems , water utilities , as well as road and power networks , and grossly under-financed these critical sectors . for 25 years , the bank tried to force governments from agriculture , leaving impoverished peasants to fend for themselves . this extreme free-market ideology , too , called “ structural adjustment , ” went against the practical lessons of development successes in both china and the rest of asia . a practical development strategy recognizes that public investment in agriculture , health , education , and infrastructure is essential complements to private investment . the result has been a disaster for africa , with its farm productivity stagnant for a decade .
putin ’s authority may appear unshakeable , but by actually being propped up by his propaganda and fear . when america betrays its own values to avoid a challenging russia , it strengthens putin ’s hands considerably . in the run-up to next year ’s presidential election , putin does not hesitate to take advantage of the leeway that foreign leaders give him . meanwhile , the perception that he has america on the ropes allows putin to continue to silencing his opponents . already , he has ensured that opposition leader alexei navalny was convicted of embezzlement , handing out the government a pretext to bar him from the ballot .
with energy prices hovering center stage , there is a danger that already-weak incentives for investment in low-carbon energy will be further undermined . across europe , calls for “ affordable energy ” are fast becoming a euphemism for increased fossil-fuel subsidies and a rollback of commitment to green energy . the recent debates within the uk illustrate emerging fault lines as well . today , political leaders have openly attacked “ burdening ” burdensome ” green taxes . five years ago , britain broke the international mold by enacting legislation mandating a 80 % cut in greenhouse-gas emissions by 2050 .
moreover , the ccp can no longer count on rising prosperity to sustain public support . rampant corruption and rising inequality , coupled with obvious environmental decay , empower ordinary chinese , especially the middle class , who once held high hopes for reform , to become increasingly disillusioned . indeed , for all practical purposes , pro-market reforms are dead . a kleptocracy of government officials , their families , and well-connected businessmen were all colonized the chinese state , an effort to block any reforms that might threaten their privileged status . at the same time , given rapid population aging , china ’s demographic dividend has all but dissipated .
aside from another reasonably productive nuclear-security summit in seoul in march 2012 , news item on the disarmament front over the past year has surely been bleak . negotiations to “ “ “ de-alert ” the world ’s 2,000 nuclear weapons left at absurdly dangerous , cold war-era launch readiness never actually began . meanwhile , no other nuclear-armed state has enlisted the slightest interest in a bilateral or multilateral reduction negotiation until the two major powers , which currently hold fully 95 % of the world ’s stockpile , make further major cuts . meanwhile , no other nuclear-armed states have expressed the slightest interest in bilateral or multilateral reduction negotiations until the two major powers owning 95 % of the world ’s stockpile , make still further major cuts . apart from another reasonably productive nuclear-security summit in seoul in march 2012 , the focus on the disarmament front over the past year has surely been bleak .
the professionalism of colombia ’s armed forces , coupled with uribe ’s popularity and growing economy , have delivered , for the first time in three decades , normality to colombia ’s cities and , increasingly , the peace and rule of law to much of its vast jungle regions . indeed , many farc defectors now prefer to fight for their cause at the ballot box under the new left-wing polo alternativo democratico . but the benefits of uribe ’s apparent defeat extend far beyond colombia . in the process , he has transformed a country that has been in the grip of drug barons and on the verge of becoming a failed state . likewise , the hostage rescue mission forced chávez , still recovering from last year ’s failed power-grab referendum ( a moment when chávez ’s own military high command supposedly denied his demand for fudge the result ) onto the defensive .
yet the fact remains that a significant portion of the world ’s 30 million displaced children – 12 million of whom are refugees – passes through their school-age years , without ever having set foot in college . across the world ’s 35 conflict zones , some 75 million children are currently being denied both education and prospects for the future level of employment . yet with the $ 40 billion annual funding gap for primary and secondary education alone already on the ground , it is also becoming clear that we need a new approach . clearly , the aid of international education will have to go to scale up . in addition to mobilizing private sources of finance , we must make aid already ( with $ 13 billion this year ) go far further than it has in the past by creating incentives for recipient governments to boost their own investments in education .
and , indeed , a substantial portion of greece ’s government debt has migrated from the banks toward robust public institutions like the european central bank and the international monetary fund . in that sense , those public institutions have already largely bailed out private institutions . but the risks have not been eliminated , either . the fault lines for major banks and other financial institutions remain narrow . because they remain under-capitalized , modest losses from direct defaults , and indirect losses by corporations with business-friendly companies can threaten bank equity , causing bankers to cut back on lending .
as a result , such efforts reduced the cost of annual hiv treatments from more than $ 10,000 per patient in 2001 to just under $ 100 in 2016 . finally , the aids drive was quick to broaden , owing to strong advocacy and collaborations that reshaped markets for diagnostic and treatment programs . by diluting medications needs , aggregating orders , and encouraging competition , in a mix of intense advocacy , policymakers and providers were able to ensure market efficiencies . as a result , such efforts reduced the cost of annual hiv treatments from more than $ 10,000 per patient in 2001 to just under $ 100 in 2016 . for example , programs would have been helpful in tracking how many high-blood pressure people were diagnosed and placed on therapeutic treatment , what the proportion of those on the therapeutic encounter had gained blood-curable levels , and what kind of treatment levels required to reduce premature deaths through an desired target .
to those confronting the prospect of death , what matters is access to life-saving drugs , not whether what kills a person is part of an epidemic . just before last year ’s trade talks in cancun , america made some concessions by making sure that it is no longer the sole holdout . global consensus , reflected in the us commission 's report , calls for more exceptions , so that , say , drugs can be made available in any conceivable way to save life . to those confronting the prospect of death , what matters are access to life-saving drugs , not whether what killing a person is part of an epidemic . in its bilateral trade agreements , however , the us demands what became known as “ trips plus , ” which would enhance intellectual property rights further , ensuring that countries have only the right to produce inexpensive generic drugs during epidemics and other emergencies .
without that exchange-rate adjustment , faster export-led growth would expose the chinese economy to the risk of overheating . meanwhile , rates of us spending growth in china will not change dramatically . as a result , chinese policymakers have been waiting to see whether america ’s recovery is real . if it is true , china ’s ’s ’s ’s exports will grow more rapid . and , if its exports have grown more rapid , they may enable the renminbi to rise .
a similar pivot is needed if the imf is to deliver better on the supra-national questions now spilling over its policy agenda . already , broader national engagement – with ngos , local media , and a broad spectrum of policymakers – is viewed as an integral part of effective country advice and program execution , just as being vital to the fund ’s “ surveillance ” function under its agreement article . when i joined the imf in the early 1980s , discussions with nongovernmental counterparts , whether on the country or the policy work , were discouraged . the situation today is much different . specifically , the fund would have to complement its traditional core constituency of governments and other multilateral institutions ( notably the world bank ) with systemically influential sub-national and private-sector counterparts .
as soon as it slow to react , the world is now acting on its own . thirty countries have recently signed up to lucens , or the safe school guidance that instruct their military institutions to stop schools as instruments of war . and , with the united nations children ’s fund ( unicef ) winding down worldwide coalition to protect education from attack , the global business coalition for education ( gpe ) , and former nigerian finance minister ngozi okonjo-iweala , nigeria now piloted the concept of safe schools . leila zerrougui , the un secretary-general ’s special representative for children and armed conflict , recommends designating abductions of children from schools a “ trigger violation ” for naming terrorist organizations in the secretary-general ’s annual report to the un security council . this has meant funding school guards , leveraging fortifications , and surveillance equipment to placate parents and pupils that all possible are done to ensure that their school is safe to attend .
because fiscal austerity means more recessionary and deflationary pressures in the short run , one would need more monetary stimulus to compensate and more local-demand growth , via delayed fiscal austerity – within germany . but the eurozone ’s two largest policy players , the european central bank and the german government , want no part of this agenda , in their hope that one-quarter of good gdp data makes a trend . the rest of the eurozone is in barely better shape than the periphery : bond vigilantes might not have invited italy in france ; but economic performance there was anemic , at best , being driven mostly by a mini housing boom . italy and spain are in serious trouble , and why even italy – which is on a relatively sounder fiscal footing – has flat per capita income for a decade and little structural reform – can not be complacent . this is why greece is insolvent and the coercive restructuring of its public debt is unavoidable .
europe was thought to be the solution by the french political class . but europe and the eu could increasingly catalysts for public resentment . jospin and chirac did nothing to implement the grand program of liberalization ( including energy , financial services , and transport ) agreed among eu members over the course of lisbon two years ago , suggesting that the benefits of liberalisation are being denied france at a time when the public perceives the eu as imposing all kinds of restrictions on the french way business . it is time for france to abandon the indulgence of french exceptionalism ( “ l’exception francaise ) , and initiate serious reforms that engage the electorate . the disgrace of le pen ’s newfound prominence can yet prove beneficial insofar as it forces the mainstream political establishment to heed popular concerns and address the country ’s problems .
there was certainly much of this type of sentiment in the 1930 ’s , when the populist reaction to the great depression ascribed it to the sinister forces of “ international capital . ” an alternative scenario suggests that these fears would emanate from a real problem . the modern version of this explanation holds that the world is changing so rapidly that national security , and actually national identity , are coming under threat . still , modern economic growth depends in almost every advanced industrial country on imported energy ( norway ’s is the exception ) . people in places like france and poland , which worry about national decline , are seeking to blame somebody outside the country .
the attempt at the primaries to elect fatah candidates backfired , owing to charges of fraud and losers ’ refusal to honor the outcome . abbas ’s son , mazen , run a local advertisement agency . his other name , abu mazen , is not the revolutionary name but reflects the practice of naming a person as the father of his eldest son . in his attempt to counter arafat ’s own political corruption and micromanagement , abbas has lost whatever chance he must retain the loyalty of fatah leadership , newly appointed pa officials , security personnel , and , most important , local militants . calling for national elections , while politically correct , was political suicide , because he lacked any vision of a possible outcome , and therefore had much to secure fatah ’s discipline .
new york – for four decades , the ledra street in the heart of nicosia has been a symbol of a divided cyprus . and then , two years ago this april , a wall that split capital into north and south was opened . on a recent visit to the us , i visited the ledra street crossing . last week , i visited the ledra street crossing , together . it was a window onto what the future might bring .
but if the proposals discussed in beijing last month are realized , the resulting fta could surpass nafta in its level of integration and significance to the global economy . moreover , the formation of a china-japan-south korea fta would most likely trigger a chain-reaction . for example , momentum could expand southward and prompt asean , which has bilateral ftas with all three countries , to join the grouping . if that were to happen , other countries – australia , new zealand , and , most important , india – might seek to jump on the “ bandwagon . ” such turning events would be the equivalent of establishing an east asian free trade area , which asean +3 envisioned some ten years ago .
compare this with the antibiotic treatment of , say , the urogenital infection that lasts a few weeks at most . as a result , compliance with tb drug treatment is particularly weak , paving the way for multidrug-resistant ( dr. ) tb that can no longer treat conventional therapeutic regimes . some 50 million people are infected with tubercle bacilli . while this extra cost may be borne by health-care systems in the rich world , it is excessive for poor countries , offering none of them , or inadequate treatment . while treating mdr-tb remains possible , to do so at least arduous , with treatment periods of roughly two years , using drugs that are neither efficient nor as benign as the canonical drug – and at a cost that rises to a population of 10 or more .
in a country where money trumps democracy , such laws have become predictably frequent . of course , market forces play a role , too ; but markets are shaped by politics ; and , in america , with its quasi-corrupt campaign finance system and its revolving door among government and industry , politics shapes money . in short , however , rising inequality is not inevitable , either . there is market economies that do better , in terms of both gdp growth and rising living standards for the majority of citizens . for starters , bankruptcy laws that privileges derivatives across everyone else but do not allow student debt to discharge , regardless of how inadequate education has delivered , enriches bankers , and impoverishes many at the bottom .
on the other hand , former us secretary of state and democratic presidential candidate hillary clinton and a leading republican contender , donald trump , have opposed reform of social security and medicare . senator bernie sanders , hillary clinton ’s democratic rival , actually proposes expanding program her unfunded liabilities . the progressive redistributive agenda could continue to advance , or the conservative entitlement-reform agenda could fail . either way , america would face growth-restricting tax hikes and limits on contributions that public investment can make to the country ’s future . either way , america would face growth-restricting tax increases and limiting the contributions that public investment can make to the country of its future .
confronted with an election result of whether to rejoin the social democrats or haider ’s freedom party , they produced a faustian pact with haider . the austrians are right that haider-like parties exist in many european countries – in britain , france , even in some scandinavian countries . but in all of these countries , the political discourse of all democratic parties ostracized these racist groups and parties : british conservatives never entered an alliance with the british national front ; the same goes for france , where french conservatives have expelled from their own party local leaders , who fashioned municipal alliances with le pen ’s representatives . this is exactly what the party of austrian conservative party under wolfgang schuessel has not done . there may be good political reasons why another alliance with the social democrats was unappealing to schuessel ’s party ( he would n’t have been chancellor in such a coalition , for one ) .
the congressional budget office projects that , even with no further legislation , the debt-to-gdp ratio will rise to 91.2 % by 2027 . the direct effect of the $ 1.5 trillion deficit implied by the tax reform would have been to raise that to 97 % . a military emergency or an economic downturn would have been calling for additional debt-financed spending or tax cuts . it is hard to believe that a 97 % debt ratio would have made that much harder to achieve than a 92 % debt-to-gdp ratio . but even a massive spending program like america ’s $ 900 billion and regulatory reinvestment act of 2009 would have added only an additional three percentage points to the debt-to-gdp ratio .
at the same time , the african union reacted promptly . its peace and security council met , expressing the au ’s categorical rejection of any attempt to create a fait accompli that undermines the electoral process . the economic community of west african states ( ecowas ) strongly condemned any attempt to “ usurp the popular will of côte d’ivoire ’s people and appeals to all stakeholders to accept the results declared by the electoral commission . ” ecowas chair and nigerian president goodluck jonathan called upon all parties to “ respect , and fully implement the verdict of ivorian people , ” as declared by an independent electoral commission . and us president barack obama congratulated ouattara with saying that the world would have “ hold those acting to thwart the democratic process and the willingness of voters to blame for their actions . ”
seoul – have the world entered a new era of chaos ? america ’s vacillating policy toward syria surely suggests so . indeed , the bitter legacy of us-led invasions in iraq and afghanistan , followed by the financial crisis in 2008 , has made the united states not only reluctant to use its military might , even as “ red lines ” pass , but also as unwilling to shoulder any serious strain to maintain its global leadership position . china ’s leaders have displayed their lack of interest in an active global leadership by dismissing calls to become a “ responsible stakeholder ” in the international political and economic system . but , with america no longer willing to take the lead ?
ethanol accounts for over 50 % of the country ’s current light-fuel demand , and petrobras – brazil ’s energy giant and one of latin america ’s largest companies – expects this share to rise to well over 80 % by 2020 . brazil was trying to become energy self-sufficient in ways similar to other countries ’ modern efforts . our research shows that industrial policies were a success in promoting brazil ’s competitive , bio-ethanol industries . a massive stimulus package prompted by the 1970 ’s boom in oil prices signaled a completely new industry . but it would not have worked without the crucial competitive role that competition played .
“ baby creativeness and ability to transcend reality are blunted , ” states one ilo report said , “ and his whole mental world is impoverished . ” the ilo contends that children suffer greatly when forced to perform as “ little adults . ” the sad reality is that families are frequently maim their children ’s last to protest exploitation of their kids . indian fathers still repay their debts by committing their children to bonded labor . pakistani parents sometimes maim their children off to make them beguiling beggars .
but , despite its wealth and military might , america ’s capacity to project political power – for good or ill – is declining in future years , for at least five reasons : america ’s budget is in crisis . asia ’s central banks have purchased hundreds of billions of dollars of american securities , much of it in american treasury bills . bush ’s tax cuts and military spending – which have contributed to budget deficits of $ 500 billion a year – will have to raise taxes and restrain budget spending , whether or not bush is re-elected . japan alone possesses foreign-exchange reserves of around $ 750 billion , much of which in the american treasury bills . the annual us military budget , having risen by $ 150 billion since bush took office , will have to cut in coming years to get the budget under control ; america is borrowing massively from abroad .
to be sure , there have long been political efforts to undermine or replace the us dollar as the dominant global currency . in 2001 , then-then-then-malaysian prime minister mahathir mohamad tried to introduce a “ gold dinar ” as an answer to the twin currency system . the most seductive alternative , it seems , was that of the soviet era , that the us had been gold . russian theoreticians of eurasia ” often tout traditional russian iconography ’s use of a fine metal . so far , while there have been no globally devastating monetary attack outside the realm of theaters .
of course , a single short seller can not “ make ” the asset price ( unless , of course , george soros , whose famous bet against the british pound in 1992 made it a billionaire , forcing britain from the european exchange-rate mechanism ) . but if a small number of speculators decide ( rightly or wrongly ) that a government ’s debt is overpriced , it can force down its price , thereby forcing up its yield ( the interest rate that the government must pay ) . voilà – a successful “ brief ” deal – to do business . if an attack persists , speculators could force a government into default on its debt unless it can find ways to finance its borrowing more cheaply . my profit for the quite correctly taking that bearish view is € 1.65 m – the € 9.1 m i was by selling bonds when i borrowed on january 1 , minus the € 7.2 m that i had to repay them on june 30 , minus the € 250,000 in interest that i had to pay goldman sachs through a six-month loan .
doubts about the chinese government ’s willingness to shift economic policy away from tightening toward stimulus have been dispelled in recent weeks . to the degree that tariffs have reduced china ’s exports , the government and the central bank can offset the economic effect by stimulating domestic demand . the slowing chinese economic growth this year was the result almost entirely of deliberate decisions to over-deleverage the banking system , by cutting local governments ’ borrowing , reducing over-investment in infrastructure , and rescuing booming house prices by tightening monetary policy . all of these austerity policies can easily be softened or reversed again . clear statements by policymakers , all the way xi may have signaled that he will prohibit china from weakening next year ’s economy from further weakening the economy , even if that means accepting larger budget deficits or an easing on bank deleveraging and monetary tightening .
in the eighteenth century , shipping technology improved sufficiently to enable the creation of global supply chains . the slaves of africa were used to grow cotton in the south united states , which was then shipped to english mills . the finished cloth then exports to the rest . in fact , cotton was one of the first industries to witness this shift . this was the age of rural blacksmith , weaver , potter , and the cobbler .
is “ always represented ” by the lone political party ? it need not be “ represented . ” such obscurantism only creates a kind of stultifying kind culture of uniformity . it need not be “ represented . ” in fact , i do not know what “ the progressive direction of advanced culture ” is , but the advanced culture played no part in the ccp-inspired “ wipe out the poisonous weeds campaign , ” or the “ anti-rightist movement , ” or the “ eliminate demons and evil heresy campaign . ” like a blustering of grass beneath a stultifying stone , culture knows how and in which to seek light .
in 2006 , then-president olusegun obasanjo , then nigeria ’s president , was among the first to do so . other leaders , from gambia ’s president yahya jammeh to zimbabwe ’s robert mugabe , talked in the same vein . uganda ’s president yoweri museveni followed suit when signing the anti-gay bill into law in 2014 . these official attitudes have created significant suffering for africa ’s gay and lesbians . indeed , the price of homophobia for gays in many african countries is painfully obvious : legal sanctions , social ostracism , and mobs of justice .
still , it seems that china ’s share , at around 30 % , will be the largest of the world ’s 57 participating countries , potentially giving it a near-veto over aiib decisions . that underscores a key worry among development economists and observers of international relations as the aiib ’s birth approaches . china ’s explanation of its push to establish the aiib is that developing countries have inadequate access to capital for infrastructure . will it prove to be the imf bank of china , brazil , and , for china , or will it pursue a multilateral agenda in the way that the world bank and regional development banks like the asian development bank ( adb ) and the africa development bank ( afdb ) ? perhaps more important , they have an inadequate voice at the world bank , the international monetary fund , and the adb .
at the international monetary fund ’s annual meeting in october , the fund ’s chief economist , olivier blanchard , fueled the controversy by pointing out that , in more recent times , governments tended to underestimate the adverse growth effects of fiscal consolidation . contrary to what such forecasting disparities might suggest , economists really know much about the effects of fiscal policy , at least far more than they used to know . they typically assumed that to slash public spending by a dollar would reduce gdp by about 50 cents on the short-term rate ; by blanchard , according to blanchard , the true result in current conditions is a $ 0.90-90-1.70 . that is a large gap , but it is also a perplexing finding : how can so much uncertainty persist ? until the 1980 ’s , it was routinely assumed that the so-called multiplier ” – the ratio of gdp change to changes in government spending – was broadly stable and larger than one .
but , because the public is educated about the special threats that nuclear weapons continue to pose to the cities in which they live , this stance will become more difficult to maintain . making matters worse , suggestions of their actual use have taken place . military planners who regard the use of nuclear weapons have presumably given scant thought to those living in major cities on their target lists . at the same time , people worldwide must cease to concern one another as untrustworthy enemies . for too long , urban dwellers have been used as pawns on a global nuclear chessboard , with little concern for the full ramifications of playing the game .
the influence of the widening disparities between the eu ’s affluent “ northern ” and the stumbling “ south , ” ” ” with france at the center ( but heading south ) , has also been apparent . complicating the widening disparities between the eu ’s affluent “ northern ” and the stumbling “ south , ” ” ” ” ” with france ’s two major party families , the european people ’s party ( epp ) , and the social democrats ( epp ) . and the huge prosperity gap between “ old ” and “ new ” eu member states continues to determine voting patterns . these groups downplayed the economic and social pain felt in many eu member states , particularly given that large majorities of europeans are unconvinced that the worst is over . moreover , right-wing populist parties have taken on increasing public frustration with the eu itself .
they raise their spectacles filled with finest scotch sprinkled fines . not golden powder , as the smaller moguls might offer , nor even the purest cocaine . a half-century ago , the number of white rhinos abounded in africa , something that was similar . no , this is far rarer and costlier : it is pulverized white rhino horn . today , the international union for conservation of nature estimates that just 25,000 still roam the continent , mostly in south africa , a handful in namibia and kenya .
dubai – the global financial crisis taught the world just how profoundly interdependent our economies have become . in today ’s ’s crisis of extremism , we must recognize that we are only as interdependent to our own security , as is obvious in our contemporary struggles to defeat isis . if we are to stop isis from teaching us that lesson the hard way , we must acknowledge that we can not quash the fires of fanaticism by an individual on their own . isis certainly can – and will – be defeated militarily by an international coalition that is now assembling , and which the uae actively supports . the world must unite behind a holistic drive to discredit the ideology that gives extremists their power together , restoring hope and dignity to those in their power to recruit .
this year ’s nobel prize in economic sciences went to george akerlof of the university of california at berkeley , michael spence of stanford university , and myself for our work on the `` asymmetry of information '' . he knew that information was imperfect , but hoped that a world with moderate information imperfections could be akin to a fully world of information . what was that kind of work about , and why did we commit that one day ? for more than two hundred years , economists used simple economic models that assumed that information was perfect – i.e. , that all participants made a standard of equal , transparent knowledge based on relevant factors . we showed that this thought was ill-fated : even small information imperfections could have profound effects on how the economy behaved .
bankers ’ pursuit of self-interest ( of greed ) did not lead to society ’s well-being ; it did not even serve their shareholders and bondholders well . it surely did not serve homeowners , who were losing homes , workers who had lost their jobs , pensioners who saw their retirement resources vanish , or taxpayers who paid hundreds of billions to bail out the banks . we were accustomed to thinking about government transfer money out of favor with the poor . never had so much money been transferred from so many to so few . under the threat of abdicating the entire system , a safety net , to which no one had ever expected to help haphazard society , was spread generously to commercial banks , then to investment banks , insurance firms , auto companies , even car-loan corporations .
madrid – this approach would align france with the principle that american president barack obama highlighted when announcing the latest round of sanctions against russia last month , that ukraine must be permitted “ to chart its own path . ” above all , it would help ukraine ’s people , divided between inherently antagonistic identities , to live together peacefully . the practical outcome – ukraine has remaining unaligned in military and security terms – would reflect ukraine ’s will as a whole . to be sure , ukraine ’s standing can change in the future , with the cultural , demographic , and economic shifts producing the necessary consensus to abandon its neutrality . what matters is that the constitution requires a super-majority , rather than a matter of course , the easily reversible “ non-bloc ” non-bloc ” resolution that ukraine ’s parliament adopted in 2010 to join military alliances .
in institutional terms , long-term reform should aim to shift to a pension system based on individual savings accounts , as has occurred in chile , against the status quo , pay-as-you-go ( payg ) pension system . political elites -- at home and from abroad -- will need to shift public attention from the looming fiscal crisis . the public should understand the crucial distinction between a one-time transfer to old workers at the outset of market reform and a long history of pension policies . in any viable , long-lasting arrangement , levels of benefits relative to wages should be reduced , retirement ages should be raised to international norms , and eligibility for special pensions ( disability ones especially ) should be tightened to cover only the truly in need . in institutional terms , long-term reform should aim to shift to a pension system based on individual savings accounts , as has occurred in chile , pay-as-you-go pension systems .
but that may well follow the second phase , in which tight labor markets , populist nationalism , and industry concentration start to redress the one-time structural effects of widespread adoption of new technologies . as with most paradigm shifts , there can be little certainty regarding the timing of this scenario . focusing too much on cyclical , rather than structural , could create serious risks for future economic well-being and financial stability . and , on a third stage , the potential onset of higher inflation may catch up with policymakers and investors by surprise , producing excessive risk-taking that makes downside situations worse . but , one way or another , policymakers in advanced economies must recognize that their own inflation outlook is subject to a wider set of dynamic possibilities than previously considered so far .
the same step for implementation of the 2015 paris climate agreement , which will require mobilizing investment in energy efficiency and renewable-energy sources to keep global temperatures from rising by more than 2º celsius . groups would operate under a common mandate across all un agencies , and are being led by un operations directors within each individual country . a fifth step should be the inclusion of women fully and equal to all segments of the un agenda , not only in discrete domains pertaining to “ women ” issues . the un ’s romanians agendas , peace and security , sustainable development , human rights , and humanitarianism , must be structurally integrated into just one strategic continuum , rather than surviving rigid , self-empowered institutional silos . multidisciplinary “ team un ” groups could be deployed on the ground to break down departmental barriers , and confront appropriate challenges .
with an estimated 268 million people in extreme poverty in a recent survey from 2011 , india is home to the largest absolute number of the planet ’s poor . in the drc , according to the world bank , about 77 % of the world ’s population is extraordinarily poor and falling a dollar short of the poverty line at the average . each is on average 38 cents a day below the extreme-poverty line of $ 2 billion or more . for india , the cost adds up to almost $ 11 billion in exchange-rate relief . the democratic republic of congo and nigeria would be the most expensive countries in which to end poverty .
but , over the last few decades , macroeconomic policy in most developing countries has become more pro-cyclical , largely aggravating the volatility of international financial markets and commodity prices . pro-cyclical fiscal adjustment tends to stimulate a short-run stance toward economic policies that restrict long-term investment in infrastructure and human capital , thereby fueling growth . indeed , when oda does not determine geopolitics , it can have a powerful positive effect on long-term growth , in effect because it supports investment in infrastructure and human development . more fiscal space can be generated by improving governance and strengthening the tax base , and by achieving the poorest countries ’ expanded official development assistance ( oda ) channeled through national budgets . finally , institutional reform encompasses more than the creation of markets , and guaranteeing property rights .
coca cultivation has been slashed by one-quarter in the last five years , with the seizures of cocaine nearly doubled . but now demand for cocaine in much of the world is stable or falling . what european leaders need to do is get serious about europe ’s cocaine problem . what the “ white lady ” is seducing a steadily increasing number of europeans , and remaining in a denial state , will only worsen the consequences . the cocaine use to become america ’s problem , to the point that the united states initiated a major campaign against sellers and consumers of crack cocaine in inner cities , narcotics traffickers and suppliers in the andes .
berkeley – it has been one year since donald trump was elected president of the united states , with america ’s democratic institutions apparently under significant strain . yet state and local governments still trust most voters , and hold power under america ’s tenth amendment to strengthen its democratic institutions . among congressional republicans , in particular , a “ take-no-prisoners ” of extremism undermines the federal government ’s capacity for action , which is precisely what many on the far right want . simply 20 % of americans now trust the federal government to do the right thing , ” while trust in the us congress fell below 9 % . according to some pessimists , the american constitution was not meant to address a country 's challenges so sharply divided by income , race , and partisanship .
the european parliament has consistently denounced belarus as europe ’s last dictatorship ; yet eu member governments continue business as usual with aleksander lukashenka , the country ’s wayward and not lunatic despot . by treating lukashenka as a favored business partner simultaneously , the eu is working to isolate it as an international pariah , european hypocrisy stands naked . this is particularly true when there is a chance to save , or to make money . for example , for over a decade , germany ’s police force , the customs service , and even the bundeswehr were ordering uniforms from a state-owned plant in dzherzinsky , named after the father of red terror and the founder of the soviet kgb , feliks dzherzinsky . similar examples of such indifferent cynicism abound .
bond yields in southern europe were on the rise , with a pervasive sense of apprehension and a fear of cloaked governments in european capitals . simultaneously , the european central bank launched its € 1 trillion ( $ 1.3 trillion ) long-run refinancing operation , which has pulled the european banking system back from the brink . nevertheless , political leadership in the eu was sorely lacking . a “ fiscal treaty ” would have emerged , ” as would have strengthened the stability and growth pact , and essential , entail automatic sanctions aimed at ensuring that eurozone members stick to these rules . finally , in december , decisive action was taken .
an analysis by ronald gilson , henry hansmann , and mariana pargendler of brazil ’s novo mercado – stock exchanges of some special voluntary listing segment , which provide strong protections for investors in newly listed firms – support this view . but stock exchanges have limits , especially in brazil . in the absence of credible courts , they can not prosecute their rules . their only recourse is to pressure recalcitrant firms off the exchanges . their only recourse is to pressure recalcitrant firms off the exchanges .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . unfortunately , although we may be at a turning point for more politically , the data that emerged over the past month do not paint a promising picture of the global economy ’s short-term prospects .
and the conversion of comprehensive universities into the specialized institutes of science and technology in the former soviet union and communist china did nothing to avert economic disaster in those economies . of course , a simultaneous shift in multiple countries towards stem-focused secondary and tertiary education – with large concomitant productivity gains – could diminish the competitiveness of an economy that has made no such effort work . but , again , this contradicts the traditional trade dynamics in which one country ’s success does not seem to indicate hardship for another . in fact , the proliferation of high-minded european universities failed to buttress economic growth or employment . but this scenario is highly unlikely , at least for the foreseeable future .
first , all of them were hit by a profound crisis of the real social-welfare state : falling output , rising unemployment , large fiscal deficits , high inflation and devaluation . without a severe crisis , no major reform seemed likely . second , changes of government through elections induced reforms and gave them democratic legitimacy . reform does not require a state of emergency , as is often argued . third , reform requires a strong leader .
but , rather than deploy their abundant cash in new investments to expand capacity and tap new markets , which they have been very hesitant to do since the global financial crisis erupted , many companies have so far favored ( or were pressured by activist investors ) to give it back to shareholders . moreover , because firms dramatically improved their operating efficiency , and lengthened maturities on their debt , they need a lot less precautionary savings than they have done in the past . still , one looks at it , the corporate sector in general , and in america in particular , is just as strong as it has been in many years . non-financial firms have reached a mix of resilience and agility that stood in sharp contrast to prevailing conditions for some households and governments around the world , which have yet to confront an adequately rooted legacy of over-leverage . indeed , with profitability at or close to record levels , the corporate sector ’s cash holdings in the united states topped the one-quarter , reaching all-time highs – and earning very little at today ’s near-zero interest rates .
perhaps the most compelling case for all is that indonesia , the world ’s largest muslim state , with a rapidly expanding middle class , reasonably stable democratic politics , and an economy that was a star performer in asia despite the global recession . from an american perspective , indonesia is an attractive alternative to russia , having recently vied with venezuela for leadership of a us-made america in decline ” ” cheering section . purely from the ticommercial stage of economic potential and fundamentals , the case is a much stronger response to south korea , a sophisticated economic power whose primary responsibility is the danger that the regime of its evil twin toward the north would collapse and inundate it with hungry refugees . the same goes for turkey , with its robust banking sector , a prosperous domestic market , growing importance to the middle east , and energy policy , nato membership , the european union ’s bid for membership , and its ties to its ethnic cousins across central asia . indonesia , moreover , proved resilience not only economically , but also as a nation .
the bottom line is that values matter in international relations , with states that place considerable emphasis on promoting values is extremely vulnerable to charges of hypocrisy . no state that aspires to win the support or cooperation of others can afford to be seen as comfortable with an unambiguous double standard . and worst of all , one can only feel as soft on those who , like egypt ’s present military rulers , commit massachusetts crimes against their own citizens . a good example is the allegation that the “ responsibility to protect ” principle is inherently flawed , because major powers will always be immune from intervention , not only because five may exercise a veto of security council operations , but because of their own military strength . but this ignores the principle that no military intervention will ever be legitimate , unless it satisfies , among others , the test of diminishing , not augmenting , human suffering , and goes to war against any major powers that can be secured by a far broader conflagration .
yet that seems to be precisely what hun sen ’s government plans . already , the country ’s deteriorating record on democracy and human rights is threatening its tariff-commensurate access to the european union market , provided through the bloc ’s “ everything but arms ” trade regime . the ssez ’s recent denial of any company that has operating has faced has reinforces the suspicion that hun sen ’s government will continue to turn a blind eye . that may well be good news for a corrupt few , but it is bad for cambodia . the last thing cambodia needs now is to risk economic reprisal for helping chinese firms dodge american tariffs .
new york – prolonged periods of slow growth and feeble job creation are threatening to bite open up the global economy . more than 200 million people are unemployed , according to the international monetary fund . in order to break free from stagnation , we need renewed policy momentum for the world . if the action agreed by the g20 ’s heads of state takes place in november is implemented , it will lift world gdp above 2 % by 2018 , the equivalent of adding $ 2 trillion to global income . at the same time , some important economies are still fighting deflation .
should it undergo further simultaneous transformation and enlargement ? the albright report attempts to address these questions entirely . it endorses policies that capture precisely the relationship between “ outside areas operations ” and members ’ commitment to their mutual self-defense , under article 5 of the north atlantic treaty . it further rightly suggests that nato ’s strategic political and military objectives could be achieved jointly with russia through greater stability , mutual transparency , predictability , and weapons reduction verified by nonproliferation and arms-control agreements . what kind of relations should nato have , with its partners , with its partners ?
one is north korea , whose recent behavior has been clever and delusional . japan officially endorses the objective of a non-nuclear world , but relies on america ’s extended nuclear deterrent and wants to avoid being subject to nuclear blackmail by north korea ( or , for that matter , china ) . japan fears that the credibility of america ’s extended deterrence will be weakened if america decreases its nuclear forces to parity with china . even so , it is a mistake to believe that extended deterrence depends on parity in nuclear numbers . the north ’s koreans violated their agreements , knowing that china , a country with the greatest potential leverage , is most concerned with regime collapse in north korea , and therefore the threat of chaos on its borders .
berkeley – back in the late 1990 ’s , in america at least two schools of thought pushed for more financial deregulation , that is , for repealing the regulatory separation of investment banking from commercial banking , relaxing banks ’ capital requirements with banks , and stimulating a more aggressive creation and use of derivatives . if deregulation seemed such a bad idea right now , why did n’t it then then ? the first school of thought , broadly that of the united states republican party ( pan ) , was that financial regulation was bad , because all regulation was wrong . the second , broadly , that of the democratic party was somewhat more complicated , and that it was based on four observations : · within the global economy ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s industrial core , at least , was then more than 60 years since financial disturbances had had had more than scant effects on the overall level of output and employment .
the democrats ’ core message of the next two years should be that , in a plutocracy , everyone will lose . concentrating on egalitarianism would appeal to the liberals , of course , but this should not alienate moderate voters either , because more equality would be good for the economy . and perhaps even persuade some of them to angry , poor trump ’s supporters to recognize that his pseudo-populism is not to help the leftward folks in rust belt cities and rural hinterlands . it is about providing an even greater amount of money for a very few . it is grotesque enough that so many people who stand to benefit from such “ socialist ” policies remain convinced to vote against them because they are supposedly “ un-american . ”
similarly , trump thought he could bully iran by abandoning a joint comprehensive plan of action and imposing severe sanctions . but iranians reacted by escalating their regional provocations , knowing full well that trump could not afford a full-scale war and the oil-price spike that would result from it . still , with no deal by a year of end , a clash becomes likely . as the clock ticks down , a wrong-headed outcome becomes even more likely . but neither wants to be the “ chicken , ” because it would undermine their domestic political standing and empower the other .
in the past two months , scaf ’s behavior toward civilian politicians , civil-society actors , and , more recently , the coptic community have a clear reflection of a changing attitude : “ you need immunity , guidance , and protection from us – not us ” from you . political polarization , sectarian incidents , a weak economy , and absence of security have dimmed egypt ’s prospects for a successful democratic transition . furthermore , the scaf have carefully weighed down politicians and dissected their relative weaknesses , limited capacity , notorious opportunism and generalized mismatches . as a result , there is a growing belief within scaf that its three “ minimal ” demands have become both futile and insufficiently inclusive . but the scaf now seems to have realized that in a leaderless situation , no civilian politician can grant immunity without becoming vulnerable to attack by rivals .
paying interest on them requires sending more goods and services to the rest of the world than america receives from the rest of the world . that requires a weaker dollar to make us goods more attractive to foreign buyers , making foreign goods more expensive to american consumers . by the end of the decade , america will have to pay the sum equivalent of more than one-third of personal-income tax revenue simply to pay the us interest on its national debt . higher debt-service costs require higher tax rates , which , in turn , weaken incentives , fueling economic growth . today , foreign investors hold over half of that us debt .
ahmadinejad stands for a policy of confrontation and partial isolation ; moussavi stands for more openness . if ahmadinejad prevails , the dilemma for the west will be that he will have to deal with a regime discredited by election fraud , but remains indispensable to resolving almost all of the middle east ’s important problems : iran ’s own nuclear program and conflicts in afghanistan , pakistan , iran , iraq , lebanon , and palestine . a policy of opening up the country would , therefore , quickly place the regime ’s existence at risk . iran is also a key player in cooling the hotspots in the caucasus and in central asia . indeed , aside from questions of domestic political and internal freedom , the question among major candidates hinges on whether iran should seek greater international integration .
cambridge – perhaps the most visible gains were on the external front . exports jumped from 5 % to about 30 % of gdp , and the gdp share of inward foreign direct investment tripled . but where it counts – in overall productivity and economic growth – the story is one of vast disappointment . if ever , the country destined to be the poster child of the new economic-growth orthodoxy , it was mexico . since 1996 , per capita economic growth has averaged well below 1.5 % , while overall factor productivity has stagnated or declined .
after all , many asian countries have achieved impressive export-led growth under the current system . services like education , banking , accounting , and the insurance account for an ever larger share of global output ( now at roughly two-thirds ) , and further extensions require major changes in the existing agreements . and bilateral or regional trading deals can chip away at certain barriers in the current global system . a fundamental problem , for example , is that the nature of global trade continually evolves , with existing agreements having only limited capacity to adapt . at the same time , services like education , banking , accounting , and the insurance account for an ever larger share of global output ( now at roughly two-thirds ) , and further extensions require major changes in the existing agreements .
for many years , researchers thought , these signals traveled along a few well-defined routes to reach a relay station in the brains known as the thalamus . she reminds physicians that , for a person suffering intense pain , what dominates awareness above all else constitute a powerful negative emotions . most of this time , pain occurs after simple nerve endings detect tissue injured in a variety of ways and generate signals that travel to the spinal cord , and from there to the brain . from there , the scientists believed , signals went on to parts of the cerebral cortex that administered body awareness ; somehow the cortex turned them into conscious experiences . a contemporary non-medical writer described qualities in terms of intense pain as including extremism , its ability to annihilate complex thoughts and other sentiments , its capacity for destruction of language , and its intense resistance to objectification .
when capital flight compelled françois mitterrand to become involved in his program in 1983 , france ’s socialists conducted the abrupt volte-face , while adopting large-scale financial liberalization on a global scale . the first stop was the european union in the late 1980 ’s , where two french socialists , jacques delors , and pascal lamy ( france ’s president of the european commission and its acting assistant ) , led the way . then came the turn of the organization of economic cooperation and development ( oecd ) . according to harvard business school ’s rawi abdelal , this was the key event that set in motion developments that ultimately enshrine freedom of capital movements like the global norm . in the end , the imf had joined the bandwagon , under michel camdessus , another protestant chmen serving as the governor of the bank of france under mitterrand .
de gaulle ’s firmness and rhetoric – aided , one must say , by the fumbling of insurgents – laying the primacy of statehood . the next day , de gaulle ’s face was drawn , but resolute and full of energy . within 15 minutes of the general ’s face fading from screen , 40 army units in algeria declared their allegiance . men at the barricades were persuaded to walk away their flanked stronghold ; insurrectionary leaders were either detained or fled to spain . the defeat of the army ’s revolt was apparent for the first time that the paris republican authority was showcased over the pieds noirs , which helped topple the fourth republic .
has the israelis really wanted a resurgence of islamist violence in gaza , a potential collapse of peaceful politics on the west bank , and now the right of a recognized palestinian state to take israel to the international criminal tribunal for war crimes ? if not , why are they so ham-fisted ? it has been proven repeatedly that military intimidation of civilian citizens does not violate their morale and turn them against their own leaders , however appalling the regime . palestine ’s diplomatic promotion has offered it a lifeline . israel appears to be making the same mistake others have made in the past .
fourth , the war in afghanistan has not only proceeded quickly on the ground ; it has led to a diplomatic breakthrough just as well . the un ’s increasing role in this process places its seal of international law and diplomacy over the global struggle against terrorism and help calm many countries that this constitute true international effort , not just america acting alone . the un will play a central role in renovating the working government in that country , as well as in coordinating humanitarian aid for the afghan people . while these seem to be a grab-bag of achievements , they point to a single message : the world community finds new ways to cooperate , even against a backdrop of terrorism and world recession . the growing role of united nations international institutions provides greater confidence that disputes can be resolved peacefully and even overtly , with substantial inputs of scientific expertise , as at the un climate change treaty .
with the exception of barely practical political rhetoric from leaders like hugo chávez in venezuela and evo morales in bolivia , there is nothing new on offer in the world ’s electoral marketplace that differs very much from what is commonly called “ neo-liberalism ” or washington consensus . with the exception of barely practical political rhetoric from leaders like hugo chávez in venezuela and evo morales in bolivia , there is nothing new in offer in the world ’s electoral marketplace that differs very much from what is commonly called “ neo-liberalism ” or washington consensus . according to the socialist sociologist josé de oliveira , the electoral landscape ’s coldness is closely related to one state ’s reality : the “ irrelevance ” of politics owing to its aims of financiarisation . here , brazil is no different than the united kingdom , spain , or uruguay . here , brazil is no different than the united kingdom , spain , or uruguay .
but the most consequential changes must come from within the media industry itself . because news organizations ’ safety directly affect news organizations ’ employees , freelancers , and audiences , these organizations should report on the matter . with attacks on news reporters changing the world ’s old attitude , the prideful silence no longer makes perfect sense . historically , violence against journalists has been an issue left behind headlines . if journalists use their platforms to inform the world of the dangers they and their colleagues face , then the world will have to listen .
rome – in 2010 , global leaders reached the millennium development goal ( mdg ’s ) of reducing the share of the world ’s poor to half of its 1990 level – just five years ahead of schedule . but rising unemployment and falling incomes understate the enduring threat of extreme poverty worldwide . after all , there is no unchanging attribute of a rigid group ; it is a condition that put billions of vulnerable people at risk . despite their flaws , there is no useful way to poverty in gaining a better understanding of the scale of poverty and vulnerability worldwide . but the world bank ’s ’s ’s poverty line of $ 1.25 / day ( in purchasing-power-parity terms ) program , used in measuring progress toward the mdgs ’ poverty-reduction goal , is not the only relevant threshold .
indeed , there is a looming risk of secular stagnation in many advanced economies , owing to the adverse effect on productivity growth on years of underinvestment in human and physical capital . and an abundance of policy and regulatory uncertainties will keep private investment spending in check . and the structural reforms that these economies must stimulate their potential growth will be realized too slowly . the outlook for 2014 is dampened by longer-term constraints as it is . while the eurozone ’s tail risks are lower , its fundamental problems remain unresolved : low potential growth ; high unemployment ; still-high and rising levels of public debt ; loss of competitiveness and a slow reduction in unit labor costs ( which a strong euro does not help ) ; and exceedingly tight credit rationing , owing to banks ’ ongoing deleveraging .
yes , cyprus needs € 17 billion ( $ 360 billion ) to remain in the eurozone , whereas its annual gdp stands at just € 23 billion . but these figures must be put into place in the context of the eu ’s dismal overall energy picture – something that ongoing debt negotiations have so far failed to do so . the sheer size of cyprus ’s ’s ’s likely energy-riches , and the funding needed to develop it , dwarfs those of the country ’s current financial woes . yet realizing that value is a long-term proposition ; one does need to account for the future . more immediately , bringing gas to markets in europe and elsewhere , gas liquefaction plant costing some ten billion needs to be built ; and israeli investors have already expressed interest .
greece ’s largest private media , controlled by the country ’s oligarchs , are happy to oblige . thus , most television channels speak of a bailout deal just when tsipras does : as the proximate cause of austerity , the result of neoliberal dogma . new democracy and pasok are doing much the same , attacking the eu , “ speculators ” and hedge funds alike , anyone who might divert public attention from their own responsibility to see the crisis . as a result , for too many people in greece , austerity reflects germany ’s deranged obsession with discipline , not their country ’s profligacy . syriza is hardly alone in blaming the eu for the country ’s woes .
lebanon is too vulnerable to pressure from syria and iran , neither of which wants to see its local clients relieve israelis from the burden of a “ lebanese front ” before they address their own grievances . nor is hezbollah keen to see the end of israel ’s occupation of sheba farms on lebanon ’s border undermine its claim to the formidable , independent military force that it has built with iranian and syrian aid . yet america ’s diminished leverage can not match that of the region ’s “ axis of evil ” “ axis of evil . ” after all , it was sheer qatar that brokered lebanon ’s domestic settlement , egypt that had mediated an gaza cease-fire and turkey facilitating the israeli-syrian talks . israel ’s ’s ’s ’s shift in policy toward syria , and that of french president nicolas sarkozy , was a powerful message to american opinion that they should not miss the lebanese train any more than it would .
but with clarida ’s input , the fed will be more inclined to shift its focus from actual inflationary trends , rather than the official unemployment rate and its implications below traditional models . moreover , while fed staff members tend to believe that america ’s economy ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s rate of potential growth is still very low ( around 1.75-2 % ) , clarida , like powell , seems open to the notion that trump ’s tax cuts and deregulatory policies , combined with the next wave of technological innovation , will allow for somewhat stronger non-inflationary growth . taken together , these factors suggest that the fed might remain in pause mode for the rest of 2019 . finally , clarida is spearheading an internal strategy review to determine whether the fed should start making up for below-target inflation during recessions and slow recoveries by permitting above-target inflation to be above-target inflation . and , though the review is still in its early phase , the fed already seems to have embraced the notion that near-zero inflation should be allowed to exceed 2 % without immediately triggering tightening .
at fukushima , for example , the bill will include the costs of a heroic effort by hundreds of workers to cool down a plant ’s reactors ; a protracted loss of economic output in the 20-kilometer exclusion zone ( estimated at $ 128.5 billion by roubini of global economics ) ; decommissioning and cleanup costs ; and the costs of replacing 4.7 gigawatts of generating capacity . at the top of that is the possibility of health-care costs stemming from exposure to radioactivity . it is governments , and therefore taxpayers and bondholders – that finance the nuclear plants . moreover , the supposed “ cost-saving ” of civilian nuclear power never includes a price tag for outright and indirect governmental subsidies , the decommissioning of aging facilities , and emergency cleaning up and adapting to impacted communities when disasters hit – all , once again , at taxpayers ’ expense . all of these hidden costs make the price of nuclear energy far higher than the price of shifting to renewable energies , and improved energy efficiency .
this would run up against what us universities have stood for . as a pragmatic matter , it would backfire , too , by passing the trump camp yet another opportunity to demonize the us “ liberal elite . ” the most fundamental principle that uphold is the distinction between hearing someone and honoring someone . but clear-sighted rules of engagement are a necessary one . otherwise , they would compound debate .
new york – like an inadgets on the death row in europe , europeans have been getting another last-minute stick to execution . likewise , they are now recognizing that bailout loans , which gives a new lender seniority over other lenders , will worsen private investors ’ positions , who will simply ask even higher interest rates . there was good news at this summit : european leaders finally seem to understand that the bootstrap operation by which europe lends money to rescue sovereigns , and sovereigns to rescue the banks , will not work . the markets are celebrating , because they after each of the four preceding “ eurocrisis ” summits , until they come to understand that vital problems have still to be addressed so far . it will survive even a bit longer , if not more , on average .
munich – the german constitutional court has delivered its long-awaited decision on the european central bank ’s “ outright monetary transactions ” ( omt ) scheme . since its launch in 2012 , the omt program has permitted the ecb to buy , with the target unlimited quantities of troubled eurozone countries ’ government-bond holdings , provided the affected countries subscribe to europe ’s rescue fund , the european stability mechanism . but , rather than issuing a formal ruling that would constrain the bundesbank and the german parliament , as it has done elsewhere , the court has asked the european court of justice for its opinion . the court has now declared that it fully endorses the claimants to the claimants , and that the omt program actually violates eu elementary law . in fact , thousands of germans appealed to the constitutional court against the omt program , arguing that it violates article 123 of the troubled eurozone countries ’ government-bonds ( esm ) , provided the affected countries subscribe to europe ’s rescue fund , the european stability mechanism .
and capital-gains taxes have fallen by over 50 % since the 1980s . when investment has been in upstream core research , spillover effects across industries and sectors are sometimes sufficient for social reward . but further cases may require the creation of alternative incentives that can be created . to build support for public investment on higher-risk innovation , perhaps taxpayers should receive a more direct return , by redistributing profits into a fund for public innovation to fund the next wave of technology . for example , some of the gains from the government ’s investment in tesla could have been reined in through share ( or royalties ) and used to cover the losses from its investment in the solyndra .
complicating matters further , by the end of 2020 , the european commission and the ecb will each have a new president and leadership teams of its own , with the european parliament boasting a new generation of politicians not following a decade of compromises and reform . on the contrary , many of them would have been elected in a political environment of anger , diminished trust , and intra-eu fragmentation . still , there is a broad consensus that the eurozone will need more than monetary policy to ensure continued growth and stability . unless the ecb ’s next leaders can meet them , the euro itself will be at risk . clearly , with policy interest rates at the zero lower bound , more countercyclical fiscal-policy coordination is a must .
in reality , these regimes have begun to wield social media to its own ends . we should recall earlier accusations by russians about its network of content , including posts and paying advertisements , had reached 126 million americans , about 40 % of the nation ’s population . in the event , most social media-allowed popular uprisings failed for want of effective leadership , and traditional political and military organizations retained the upper hand . we all heard accusations that russia covertly used social media to influence electoral outcomes in ukraine , france , germany , and , most famously , in the united states . facebook has estimated that russian content on its net , including posts and paying ads , has reached 126 million americans , about 40 % of the nation ’s population .
in 2005 , mahmoud ahmadinejad relied on khamenei ’s finance and political support to win the presidency . today , however , khamenei is profoundly regretful about that choice . ahmadinejad is dismissing his orders , attempting to discredit him with the public by challenging his authority and undermining key institutions , including the judiciary and parliament . today , however , khamenei is profoundly regretful about that choice . it is open secrets in iranian political circles that khamenei regrets permitting volunteers of the basij militia to attack the british embassy last november .
but it remains far from clear whether china ’s leaders will recognize this and act in their country ’s own long-term self interests . the point is not to one out the role of china . similar questions apply to india and brazil , as well as to their own interests . and it is not just the developing and emerging countries that must reconsider their global approach . the america must do likewise .
some people work harder , apply their intelligence more skillfully , or were simply lucky enough to be in the right place at the right time . nor should we worry a great deal that some people are getting richer than others . but i do not see what alternative political-economic arrangements might make individuals ’ relative wealth tightly correspond to their relative moral or other merit . the problems that can be addressed are those of poverty and social insurance — of granting a safety net is not of inequality itself . some people are working harder , applying their intelligence more skillfully , or was simply lucky enough to be in the right place at the right time .
more broadly , however , her point is that the us needs the fsoc to get the job done – to look for and evaluate all kinds of potential systemic risk . this needs to be done as a technocratic matter , not as a feature of the political process . not everyone on the sec is as sensible as the fsoc . here , too , there is some friction among various us regulators , and there is certainly a need for more coordination across national borders – including with europe . but the real danger is that powerful lobbies working through congressional members are pushing back hard against the fcsoc and its mandate .
when the results were announced , their euphoria had been overwhelming . in bucharest ’s university square , celebration recalled the energy of 1989 ; it was the sound of an aspiring electorate , aware of its past blunders , and ready for a fresh start . iohannis may also have benefited , to some extent , from an association in voters ’ minds with the german-hohenzollern kings , who ruled romania wisely and with dedication for over 80 years . and , indeed , in learning of his victory , iohannis immediately paid a visit to saudi i ( the hohenzollern prince until he renounced his title in 2011 ) . the final factor that iohannis ’s victory was the younger generation in which connections with the western world have imbued the eagerness to see genuine democratic progress in romania .
while tens of millions of chinese young people display impressive congenital abilities , the country ’s higher-education system does an abysmal job cultivating its talents . for most , the curriculum is largely outdated , with skewed toward rote learning of theory at the expense of fundamental analytical and critical-thinking skills . education in the social sciences and humanities has been particularly deficient , owing to a lack of investment in these disciplines and excessive political control of curricula . as a result , china ’s graduate from colleges and universities has learned relatively little in the outside world in fields like anthropocene , sociology , sociology , international relations , comparative literature , and history . unless china reforms its ossified system , the country will not be able to produce sufficient highly trained talent to rival the world ’s best and brightest .
imports inspire a more competitive domestic business environment . finally , global economic conditions will compel even more restructuring on japan . japan has committed to further liberalization of its markets under the wto . such reforms will create new markets , spur competition , attract foreign investment and technology transfers , and advance consumer interests . while the export expansion delivered growth in this century , import substitution and inward foreign direct investment ( fdi ) will lead to a surge in productivity in japan itself .
but it does provide no short-term answers to terrorism for several reasons : it does not supply an ideology compelling enough to compete with fundamentalism that has captured at least two generations in a moslem world . i believe that the west can learn a great deal about what to do by studying the policies being pursued in the world ’s just two mid-evolution moslem states of the world , tunisia and indonesia , because each successfully avoided becoming prey to islamic fundamentalism . both countries combined substantial increases in secular education with rapid employment creation in manufacturing jobs ; stressed rural development and labor-intensive exports ; and pursued rapid , egalitarian development . tunisia ’s achievement is noteworthy given its proximity to a violence-prone algeria . egalitarian development of this sort is the only viable answer to the moslem world ’s problems .
new haven – yet another in a long train of negative inflation surprises is giving way to one . in the united states , the so-called core cpi ( the consumer price index ) that excludes food and energy is headed down just when it was supposed to rebound . halfway around the world , the similar story continues in japan . over the three months ending in may , core cpi was essentially unchanged , held , at just 1.7 % above its year-earlier level . for an american economy that is widely presumed to be near the hallowed ground of full employment , this comes as a rude awakening – particularly to the us federal reserve , which has stepped out all the stops to recapture inflation to its 2 % target .
nonetheless , following the industrial revolution in northwestern europe , the country ’s colonization of much of asia , and the opium wars in indochina , their relative positions have switched from them . as recently as 200 years ago , asia accounted for 60 % of global gdp ; india was home to 17 % . at the same time , it contrasts the religious exuberance preached and practiced by muslim emperor akbar in 1590 ’s with the inquisition that kowtowed heresy in europe in equal time . our assumptions about asia ’s relative prosperity and the west should be redeemed as well . the nobel laureate economist amartya sen traces the origins of india ’s democratic dialogue to the twentieth century bc buddhist emperor ashshoka .
the core protective legal authority for outside finance , us federal securities laws , did not fall into place until the 1930s – decades after american financial markets had grown to finance america ’s economic ascent . britain and japan apparently followed the same sequence : finance first , protectionist institutions subsequently . japan had no corporate law until sophisticated business finance had begun developing in the late nineteenth century . still , that sequence is the opposite of what one might expect : only after financial markets developed had those with a stake in them print for better legislation to protect investors . thus , in britain , japan , and america , something more foundational had to be in place before financial markets started operating .
from 1998 to 2007 , greece ’s annual per capita gdp growth averaged 3.8 % , the second fastest in western europe , behind only ireland ’s . in greece , by contrast , the gap was mostly fiscal and used for consumption , not investment . yet , by 2007 , greece had been spending more than 14 % of gdp in excess of what it had produced , the largest such gap among europe as a whole , more than twice that of spain , and 55 % higher than ireland ’s . in spain and ireland , though , the gap reflected a construction boom ; european accession suddenly gave people access to much cheaper mortgages . insufficient spending was never really an issue ; one could have argued that .
well-functioning democracies often delegate rule-making power to quasi-independent bodies when issues are technical and do not raise distributional concerns ; when log-rolling would otherwise result in suboptimal performance for all ; or when policy comes to myopia , with heavy discounting for future costs . even then , central banks typically remain accountable to politicians , and need to provide accountant whenever their targets are missed . true , the quality of democratic governance can sometimes be augmented by reducing the discretionary power of elected representatives . independent central banks provide an important illustration of this . it may be up to elected politicians to fix the inflation target , but the means deployed to achieve that target are left to technocrats in the central bank .
first , it is important to recognize that a strong , overly volatile currency is not simply the problem of central banks to correct . maintaining a competitive currency requires raising domestic saving relative to investment , or cutting national expenditures relative to incomes . otherwise , the gains in competitiveness would be offset by rising inflation . while the central bank bears a good portion of the responsibility , it needs support from other parts of the government , most notably from the finance ministry . this implies that the fiscal authorities bear a large responsibility : to target a structural fiscal surplus , which is high enough to generate the items necessary for the real exchange-rate depreciation .
there is something about narrative – a sex symbol sacrificing her fetishized breasts for the sake of her children , her husband stay on for one ’s side , who is deeply reassuring to women in western culture . but jolie ’s real significance is her context : waves of women and men , in very different settings around the world who insisting on narrating their own meanings for events involving their bodies , events that , like breast cancer , were once shrouded in shame , silence , fear , or guilt . jolie has refused to treat the mastectomy as terrifying or tragic , or as making her “ fewer of the female ” in any form of reality . jolie ’s refuse to treat the mastectomy as terrifying or tragic , or as making her “ fewer a woman ” in any form . jolie ’s refusal to treat the mastectomy as terrifying or tragic , or as making her “ fewer woman ” on anything of circumstances .
private-sector balance-sheet problems would further weaken the financial sector , with the resulting pressure on public finances compel austerity , thereby curbing consumer demand and causing further damage to firms ’ balance sheets . it is this danger that sets practical and policy constraints on a flexible exchange rate . preventing such a crisis requires that the exchange rate be managed – and , in ways that depend on a country ’s particular circumstances . large net central-bank reserves can help to ease the process . some depreciation may be manageable for most deficit countries ; but a vicious circle could be triggered if domestic currencies lost too much value too little .
people tend to be fired , for commercial reasons , if something they said is considered offensive to large numbers of people . the limits of free speech are not just legal in american institutions . entertainment companies or mass media are sensitive to public opinion in america . but barr ’s cancellation of its performance was , of course , not a law decision . free speech is more firmly protected by law in the us than anywhere else in the world .
disturbing trends , like the “ bulge ” of the demographic youth unemployment rate , combined with a high youth unemployment rate , reach nearly 40 % in some places , highlight potentially explosive social conditions . it portrays the arab world lagging behind other regions in key actions , including individual freedom and female empowerment rates , as well as economic and social development . in the summer of 2002 , a team of arab scholars produced arab human development reports that , in the name of the un development program and the arab fund for economic and social development , it was written into the name of the un development program and the arab fund for economic and social development . “ one has a muslim majority , not one with a muslim majority .
on the economic and technological front , however , europeans regained their sovereignty . in terms of security , europeans remained reliant on the united states . institutionally , this division of labor was manifested in nato and the eu , respectively . but , given the global balance of power , this was more symbolic than a reflection of their real influence . then came the end of the cold war , when all of europe adopted a staunch transatlantic orientation .
but , at the same time , tudor did not pause with prolix apologies . he soon sponsored the unveiling of the bust of israeli premier yegzak rabin on brasov in transylvania . he announced that he was hiring eyal arad , a well-known israeli spin-doctor , to run his own presidential campaign . for the occasion , tudor wore a yarmulke , discussing his " philadelphia tism " of over two hours . “ the jews " was not his enemy any more , he said ; they even worked for him .
in kenya , for example , a leading local newspaper reported in july that philip kinisu , a former ethics chairman and anti-corruption commission , had received suspicious payments from national youth service . further nys ’s investigations exposed more corrupt deals , spurring kenyans to take to the streets in protest . and independent investigative journalists in africa have often exposed high-level corruption , abuse of power , and shady business deals . as a result , in many african countries , a free press is compromised , repressed , and even dismantled . but those with power are aware of how to fight back and ride their punches .
china ’s economy has succeeded through trial and error , and the lesson of its current stress test should be viewed as part of that process , to be applied to the next stage of economic reform . one key lesson is that china ’s stock market remains structurally biased toward state-directed ownership and guidance , even as the country builds a more fiercely entrepreneurial economy . this is fundamentally problematic , because it is the market ( not the state ) that will identify and encourage “ unicorns . ” but , because the government determines how to offload its massive stock holdings in disorderly ways , it must ensure that such efforts are financed by equity , rather than leverage , that enhance market balance and resilience . nonetheless , china has already begun to build a more innovative manufacturing and internet-driven retail sector , and the state may yet play a role in fostering innovation .
his abrupt departure from fear may produce a political vacuum that could become conducive to power grab one constitute one form or another , such as a military coup . here , the scarcity of free media is especially alarming , and does not bode well for free and fair elections . a strict adherence to constitutional provisions in any such eventuality is imperative . the recent globovision attack , venezuela ’s ’s only independent station , stands out in this regard . it is crucial that the opposition can freely air its message and target prospective voters as it attempts to curtail further opposition ’s ability to escape the electorate .
throughout the 1990 ’s , private investors looked big , lumbering central-banks as cash cows , long on money , and short on their financial acumen . george soros once made a billion dollars off the bank of england in only his hour . his basic strategy was norway : bet against any central bank that tried to defend inconsistent macroeconomic policies . margaret thatcher , of course , did not win every battle . traders did not win every battle , of course .
in the first two quarters of this year , america ’s gdp barely exceeded the level it attained at the end of last year , with much of the increase being driven by goods that were produced but not yet sold . still , contrary to expectations , the trend in household consumption has remained lackluster , and firms have not ramped up investment . the prevailing explanation , a brutally cold winter , is wearing so thin that any one should be able to see through it . but there is another problem : in their homes and workplaces , a sense of excitement about the future is absent , notwithstanding all the gee-whiz gadgetry that now envelops them . american consumers remain scarred by the crisis , and american consumers remain scarred by the past .
to succeed , over € 30 billion , or 1 % of gdp , will have to be invested annually in network infrastructure , renewable-energy generation , combined with heat and power systems , and storage technologies in the coming decades . moreover , bringing germany ’s digital infrastructure , particularly its broadband network , up to international standards , will require significant investment , which an improved regulatory framework could help spur incentives . while some of that money will come from public budgets , the vast majority will have to be provided by the private sector . likewise , regulatory reform is needed to bolster support for startup companies , an area in which germany is notoriously weak , reflected in distress such firms face in getting venture capital . nowhere is financing bottlenecks more evident than with germany ’s energiewende ( energy transition ) .
beijing – is china poised to surpass the united states to become the world ’s largest economy ? but a recent co-authored study by robert feenstra , an economist at the university of california , davis , shows that global economic leadership would pass through china in march 2014 . the international monetary fund recently predicted that the size of china ’s economy will overtake that of america in purchasing-power-parity ( ppp ) terms by 2016 . and , even more radically , arvind subramanian of the peterson institute for international economics argues that china has effectively outstripped america in ppp terms in 2010 . purchasing power parity measures a country ’s per capita income , using a bundle of international prices , applied to all economies .
as i argue in my book the future of power , global interdependence involves both sensitivity and vulnerability . america may be less vulnerable in the long run if it imports less energy ; but oil is a fungible commodity , with america ’s economy remaining sensitive to shocks from sudden changes in world prices . in other words , a revolution in saudi arabia or a blockade of the strait of hormuz could still inflict damage on america and its allies . but one should not leap to the conclusions . the equilibrium price of energy imports and exports is but the first convergence of independence .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . amazon and indonesian rainforests are on fire , and climate catastrophes like typhoons , tornadoes , and floods are intensifying , with dire consequences for the entire population .
there is a complex alternative to this downturn : an economic crisis , combined with a financial crisis . the bottom may be near – perhaps by the end of the year . before its onset , america ’s debt-ridden consumer operation was the engine of global growth . but that does not mean that the global economy is setting up for a robust recovery anytime soon . hitting the bottom is no reason to abandon the intense action taken to revitalize the global economy .
in my own career , i ’ve seen firsthand that a growth-fueled growth fueled by business competition in a globalizing world can do far more to fight poverty , hunger , and disease than a government-sponsored agenda alone . but when that contest is not conducted responsibly , the opposite can happen – and , in many cases , it has . in seizing the opportunities of globalization , firms have often neglected the developed-global workers they are leaving behind , while subjecting developing-country workers to extraordinary deprivation . tackling the world ’s ecological and ecological problems , and improving the many left behind , will require public action , like that i have overseen in my roles at the world bank , the united nations , and the british government . but it will also demand that they participate in business .
and , because it would reverse the 2016 referendum result , such a step would necessitate a new plebiscite vacillating against no deal . with luck , johnson ’s scorched-earth tactics will spur his misbegotten opponents into overcoming their differences to try to stop a no-deal brexit . but , whatever may happens , the more pragmatic center is being torn away from british politics . many leavers , for one , would view this as an anti-democratic coup . even so , it would be an incendiary movement .
the us has financed its destruction , without regard for the consequences . to support these efforts , the us is urging un secretary-general antónio guterres to appoint a special ocean representative , tasked with improving ocean governance , and ensuring that full sdg 14 potential is realized . such a representative must be given enough resources to do the job . for the us , the ocean has suffered decades of abuse and neglect . it has behaved as a free-for-all garbage bin and race-to-the-bottom buffet .
these groups were dealt a body blow just two years ago by modi ’s thoughtless , foolhardy demonetization scheme that abruptly withdrew 86 % of india ’s currency from circulation overnight . daily wage workers , traditionally paid in cash , lost their jobs to the millions , because the replacement currency was not yet printed in adequate quantities . the bjp ’s greatest victims of the agriculture sector ’s neglect of farming , were the country ’s infant and marginalized farmers , along with the landless farm labor . when crops went bankrupt , many farmers and agricultural workers laid low by the crushing debt burden ( often incurred at usurious rates from rural moneylenders ) commit suicide , as more than 11,400 in 2016 . that is the latest year for modi ’s thoughtless data on farmer suicides , but media reports suggest that the figures have grown steadily since .
for every one of the world ’s 10,000 bird species , there can be 10 or perhaps even 100 other previously unknown animal species , plant , or funes . and there is one obvious measure of how we perform at that task : the rate of extinction . bird extinctions are our finest window on humanity 's massive , irreversible environmental impact . with six billion people and math , and our individual consumption grows – we face enormous challenges in exploiting our natural resources sustainably . precisely because of this reason , some colleagues and i calculated the rate at which bird species became extinct in the recent past , and the rate at which they would likely become extinct in the future .
today , computers consume about 10 % of the world ’s electricity output , according to mark mills , the ceo of digital power group . and , finally – perhaps most importantly – they allow their users to glimpse patterns and opportunities that are impossible to discover through traditional means . cognitive systems are inspired by the human brain , an organ that still has much to teach us . with systems growing in size and complexity , the traditional computer architecture appears to be reaching its limits , because power usage soars and transmission delays among constituents have become increasingly burdensome . indeed , when it comes to energy efficiency – measured in terms of the number of computations per “ unstructured ” energy units – mankind performs roughly 10,000 times better than most man-made machinery .
munich – discussions are now underway to establish a system for joint deposit insurance for eurozone banks . proponents of the scheme , with the european commission and the european central bank ( ecb ) taking the lead , emphasize that deposit insurance would avert the risk of a run on banks in times of crisis . while this argument has true , the critics emphasize the mismatch in risk , owing to the high portion of bad loans on banks ’ balance sheets in some countries . while the share of bad loans for banks in stable eurozone countries stands at just 2 % , the most recently reported international monetary fund statistics , from last april , show a share of about 11 % for ireland , 16 % for italy , 40 % for switzerland , and 46 % for greece . to address this risk disparity and move ahead with the plan , the balance sheets of balance sheets will have to clean up before the next step .
it is hard to predict how tymoshenko ’s case will play out – whether yanukovych will succumb to pressure from the european union and the united states to release her , lest the forces want to exclude her from politics in perpetuity . until recently , ukrainian leaders have been accustomed to making more efficient means than jail to deal with inconvenient opponents . it is in jail because he has lost that power . this sets a dangerous precedent , because it creates a powerful incentive , victor takes all , the loser goes to prison – for ruthlessness . in 2000 , for example , the journalist olgiy gongadze was abducted and beheaded after publishing online news about high-level government corruption .
for innovation is what generates wealth and employment , despite – or because of – competition from poor countries . and heightened wealth in rich countries helps the poor by boosting demand for their goods . this virtuous circle continues to view the ’s enemies as intrinsically vicious , fueling the exploitation of the poor and vulnerable . there is , no doubt , a strong case to be made for universal , impartial application of values . it is here that questions of universal principles of justice and human rights enter the debate .
like italy , japan was on the frontlines during the cold war . in some important ways , japan benefited immensely from being under america ’s wing , with the postwar constitution , which was not only pacifist , but more democratic than anything the country had in the past , enshrining individual rights , full suffrage , and freedom of speech . this is why abe was the first foreign politician after british prime minister theresa may ’s government to rush to congratulate trump in person in the 2017 us presidential election . constitutionally unable to participate in military adventures , except as a high-paying producer during america ’s various asian conflicts , japan , rather like countries in western europe , could focus on re-building its industrial power . but the democracy that americans remain proud of the post-1945 installing was also hindered by american interference .
aside from a small number of good stories in the business press , it is hard to argue that someone who read or listens to english-language media coverage of the campaign might have learned anything interesting or relevant to the question of whose economic policies were probably better for america . the economics profession bears part of the blame for this . but much of the problem stems from a bloated , undereducated , and uncurious press corps . nobel prizes such as edward prescott have no business speaking of the benefits of tax cuts without pointed out that tax cuts accompanied by spending increases are not tax cuts at all ; but rather a tax shift onto the future – and a tax shift that raises risk and discourages accumulation . all of this economically legerdemain were reinforced by television , print , and internet journalists .
so far , they have failed abysmally in institutional nation-building , a necessary requirement for any successful national movement . fayyad is the first palestinian leader not to emerge from the fatah movement , and may therefore comprehend what other palestinian leaders have failed to comprehend , mired in a toxic combination of self-righteous ideology and violence . palestinian nationalism is deeply ingrained in the consciousness of the majority of palestinians , still , since in 1948 , when the united nations suggested partitioning british palestine in two states , jewish and arab states , has failed to shift from the ideology toward reality . neither violence nor terrorism has relied on outside powers ( the un , the arab league , the soviet union , the american people , the european union ) has succeeded in transmitting statehood that a people can achieve only through its own agency – which zionist ideology calls “ auto-emancipation . ” it may simply be that palestinians are on the verge of a new chapter in their history – and across the history of israel and the region as well .
three centuries later , china ’s qing dynasty fought the sino-japanese war of 1894 to stop japan from dominating korea . for centuries , china worried that the peninsula might become part of a string of encirclement or serving as an invasion route . in 1592 , the japanese general toyotomi hideyoshi invaded the korean kingdom to establish a beachhead for invading china . in response , china , under the ming dynasty , fought alongside korea against japan ’s military . three centuries later , china ’s qing dynasty fought the sino-japanese war of 1894 to stop japan from dominating korea .
the “ official ” narrative about technology treats accelerating change as unavoidable . according to acronymically named institutions , think tanks , task forces , et hoc genus omne , automation , and artificial intelligence ( ai ) will soon eliminate or reverse a vast but unforeseeable number of human jobs . at the same time , embracing new technology is regarded as essential to a country ’s geopolitical and competitive achievements . but it is a dangles that generates attention , because the problem can not be solved with conventional policy responses . thus , disruptions to existing patterns of work should be welcomed and mitigated , ” by adapting education and social-security systems to the needs of an employment-driven automation-driven market .
yet the ultimate impact of science and technology will depend on all three factors . first , develop , sustain , and utilize local capabilities and leadership . furthermore , developing scientific and engineering capacity is less difficult than sustaining , and sustaining it is less difficult than utilizing it . likewise , every nation needs to develop strategies to offer researchers and technologists local employment opportunities . so africa must invest in scientific and technological education , as well as in training education .
fifa is as complicated as any large multinational private or official organization ; how it is governed must reflect this . they must be addressed head-on , with a clean sweep of its management and a complete overhaul of its governance structures . a code of conduct on the field , in which we can expect actors to hand over their all under clear rules enforced swiftly by independent referees , is fundamentally the same as what we expect from governing body off the field . in this sense , fifa is not a special case : all nonprofit and tenacious organizations around the world are expected to adhere to this code of conduct . and this is precisely why fifa ’s problems are not likely to fade from view .
in the united states , the number of full-time male journalists has dropped by 20 % since 2001 . as advertising revenues have grown vacuums into internet giants facebook and google , newspaper gains have plunged . likewise , in the west , young people have largely been exposed to home-delivered physical morning newspapers , and instead pick up on news whenever they choose , use tablets , laptops , or mobile phones . the industry has faced scores of bankruptcies in recent years , with those still operating frequently set out large numbers of employees , particularly in their foreign bureaus . as advertising revenues were vacuumed up by internet giants facebook and google , newspaper gains have plunged .
people came from the baltic countries in the 1940s , hungary in 1956 , chile on the eve of the 1973 coup , and iran in the wake of its 1979 revolution . during the bosnian war of the 1990s , sweden opened its doors to some 100,000 people – a contest at no time , much less during a period of profound economic crises . yet this still proved well : bosnian migrants fared roughly the same as the swedes who received them , enriching our societies . in the new century , the refugees had increasingly come from the middle east and the horn of africa . for decades , swedish industries were heavily dependent on an immigrant worker .
another study , by the boston consulting group , points out that many small export-oriented european union member countries – namely , the benelux , the baltic states , the baltic states , and the nordic countries – rank well above america in the so-called “ e-intensity , ” ” which covers it infrastructure , the internet access , as businesses , consumer , and government engagement in internet-related activities . at the same time , foreign firms are rushing to seize on europe ’s tech talent . transactions worth more than $ 88 billion worldwide last year – compared to just $ 3.3 trillion in 2014 – including softbank ’s ’s purchasing of britain ’s <UNK> tor-design firm arm and qualcomm ’s $ 47 billion of ip semiconductors . one-third of these firms have acquired an tech company at the beginning of 2015 . google , facebook , and amazon have all announced major flows of their european tech hubs .
new york – china ’s dream is no exception , but china ’s dream is no exception . this presents xi with a genuine challenge . he risen to the summit by winning friends and allies within the ccp . so far , public reaction has ranged from puzzlement to derision . after a decade of rule by slogan , the chinese public wants substance .
in america , us president mitt romney has just taken office , following the hard-fought campaign , in which he derided barack obama for being overly soft on china ’s economic policies . the combination of financial contagion from europe , which has already led to a severe credit crunch , as well as an abrupt flood of lower-priced imports from china leaves the romney administration in a bind . in response , china ’s government decides that it can not risk further strife and announces a package of measures to boost economic growth and prevent layoffs , including outright financial support for exporters and intervention in currency markets to weaken the renminbi . demonstrations are starting out in major cities , citing calls to de-escalate corruption among party officials . against the advice of his policymaker , trump is announcing across-the-board import duties on chinese exports .
that power certainly explains why the dodd-frank financial reforms enacted in 2010 were not stronger , and why there is so much opposition to effective regulatory implementation ( for example , there is currently a vast struggle around the “ volcker rule , ” which would restrict proprietary trading by megabanks ) . but mortgage lenders of criminal activity are another matter , too . i honestly do not believe that the administration ’s stance reflects any form of corruption , payments made to individuals , or even political campaigns . nor does it seem to reflect the lobbying power of the big financial players . nor does it even appear to reflect the lobbying power of the big financial players .
indeed , those who recall the bosnian war may find many of its traits in syria today . the international community has been unable to achieve any unity of action , much less agreement on the path forward . indeed , much of what has happened in bosnia – including efforts , in its aftermath , to realize concepts of universal justice – has the applications of contemporary world . like bosnia , syria seems hopelessly divided among the warring factions , and the accompanying violence that they seem unstoppable . of course , there are also important differences .
given china ’s own history of vulnerability to foreign intervention , unilateral us efforts to maintain overwhelming offensive supremacy would only trigger an increasingly destabilizing arms race . at the same time , some american strategists are advocating a largely technocratic solution to this dilemma . their approach , a concept dubbed the “ air-sea battle , ” entails a mix of defensive and offensive tools to address the new challenges posed by an precision-strike weaponry . for example , iran ’s self-proclaimed precision-strike capabilities , as well as a far more hostile relationship with america , would warrant new american initiatives in order to cope with growing security vulnerability . formally , the pentagon does not direct the notion of the “ air-sea battle ” against any other country .
m.watanabe has a young talent for seeing how the tide turns . should she assume an important role at this stage ? or should she pursue happiness as a woman ? mrs. watanabe has a talent for seeing how the tide turns . her advice is to seize the opportunity at work and also find happiness in marriage and children .
in return , ukraine will uphold its end of the bargain : together with closing chernobyl , the us will introduce western nuclear safety standards and reinstating cooperation with the imf through an expanded fund facility program . the euroatom also helps with a $ 585 million loan to finance remediation at ukraine ’s functioning nuclear plants . though the us can and will pursue the fight against endemic corruption , we can not do everything alone . the eu ’s international support of our efforts is key . a positive sign here is the european bank ’s recent decision on reconstruction and development ( ebrd ) to provide $ 215 million to complete nuclear power stations at rivne and khnytsky to compensate the loss of chernobyl ’s generating capacity .
of course , what russia had in the late 1980 ’s and early 1990 ’s was not really institutionalized democracy , but revolutionary agitation . russia ’s people were eager to make the difference , and , oddly , they were doing : their energy and cohesion put an end to communist rule . out of this sea of democratic emotion new political institutions was expected to emerge . instead , political life here was diminishing to mere formality . though there is nothing like soviet oppression , the estrangement between the state and society resembles that of the soviet period .
berlin – more than a year into the arab revolts , their outcomes remain highly uncertain . almost everyone was surprised by the revolts , though political and socioeconomic causal factors were well known . as is often true in crises that become systemic , we have known phenomena but can not grasp their interactions , in part because policymakers and analysts were reluctant to anticipate ruptures : familiar charges of being stable , even when problematic , are well known . ( consider saudi arabia , which the united states and much of the west continue to regard as israel of “ stability . ” ) but some initial lessons for international politics – and for western , especially europe , foreign policy merit serious consideration .
when the market tightened in 2011 , many projects ’ outlook diminished , spurring lgfvs to seek credit in the shadow banking sector , causing their borrowing costs to soar , and introduced new market-based calls to the reform process . nonetheless , because china is the net lender of the world , lgfv ’s debts have no global systemic ramifications . in order to resolve it , the authorities have announced fiscal reforms to split revenues between the central and local governments , enabling local governments to issue longer-term municipal bonds . nonetheless , because china ’s outstanding local-government debt totaled cn ¥ 29 trillion ( $ 4.7 trillion ) by the end of 2011 , its holdings and fixed-assets worth some cn ¥ 90 trillion , implying that even if asset values were written down by half , local governments would remain solvent . that leaves only the question of debt-servicing role .
the dominance of free-market ideology prior to the crisis made many controversial social changes , ranging from income inequality and intensified wage competition to greater gender equality and affirmative action , to a near-breakdown of inequality . “ progressive ” social liberalism and “ conservative ” free-market economics seemed to have been two sides of the same coin . but when free-market economic liberalism failed in the aftermath of the 2008 crisis , the political challenges of social liberalism may no longer be deflated by invoking impersonal economic laws . racial and gender equality today is overwhelmingly backed by the clear majorities in america , britain , and most european countries , and even apparently popular policies such as trade protectionism and tight immigration controls , all of which rarely muster more than 30-40 % of their support in opinion surveys . yet if social change can no longer be legitimated as a necessary condition of economic progress , democracies appear unlikely to vote now to reinstate social conditions even before the ascendancy of economic liberalism and globalization .
as we predicted nearly 20 years ago , china will struggle to attain the growth rate above 5 % in the 2021-2030 period , for the simple reason that its labor-force growth will have peaked . while pessimists will undoubtedly find validation in further chinese growth disappointments to come out on top , optimists may point out that 5 % annual chinese growth is nominally equivalent to germany ’s 15-20 % growth . it is equally predictable that india will start growing at a rate much faster than china ’s , simply because its working-age population still has a lot of steadily growing left to do . at this stage in china ’s industrial march , faster growth would actually be quite extraordinary . the real question is whether india can implement robust , productivity-enhancing reform .
equally important is contextual intelligence , which enables a leader to vary the mix of such skills in various situations to produce successful combinations that i call “ smart power . ” during his campaign , obama demonstrated these skill sets in his peaceful crisis-response , his forward-looking vision , and his superb organizational capacity . by selecting his primary opponent , hillary clinton , as her secretary of state , reaching across party lines to maintain robert gates as secretary of defense , she showed openness to strong underlings . at the same time , his contextual intelligence on world policy was shaped from the bottom up with past experience in indonesia and kenya , and his understanding of american policy was shaped from the bottom up as a community organizer in chicago . obama continued to show such leadership skill in his almost flawless transition .
the eminent newspaper columnist amin m. lakhani recently argued in the dawn , pakistan ’s largest-circulation newspaper , that “ pakistan ’s singular preoccupation with kashmir … has been self-defeating . domestically , he thwarted the country ’s economic , social , and political development . ” domestically , he thwarted the country ’s economic , social , and political development . with pakistan ’s economy in a tailspin , and with the culture of jihad , so many young pakistanis undermining the country ’s international credibility , moderate votes are at long last disturbance . even its spiritual evolution hit the proliferation , popularization , and rising relative power … of religious groups representing the intolerant , militant , and gender-based interpretation of islam . ”
gref 's program , too , is emblematic of the president 's style : modernization from -- ie , initiated by the government and under its pressures -- is consistent with modernization from below , based on private initiative . undeniably , gref 's program seeks to establish effective private land ownership . moreover , gref 's program seeks to establish effective private land ownership . deregulation ( " de-bureaucratization , " really ) will make life easy for new enterprises by reducing the many inspections imposed by bureaucrats and by diminishing the level of demands for licenses and other forms of red tape ( which were also big sources of bribery ) . undeniably liberal thought dominate the agenda : strengthening and protecting property rights , stopping deregulation and encouraging competition .
the pattern is beginning to look familiar : a new crisis , a new meeting in brussels , an initially muddled reaction , debates , and divisions , and then gradual , step-by-step progress toward a common response , fueled by a realization that no other alternative exists . in today , ’s disagreements lie the roots of a stronger union . the public no longer thinks of the european project as certain utopian endeavor , an abstract attempt to forge an ever-closer union . increasingly , the eu is coming to be seen as a practical , and absolutely essential , mechanism for a group of small countries to work together to meet their common challenges . the eu ’s people truly awakening to a world that is more dangerous , divided , and disorienting .
muammar el-qaddafi ’s murderous stance during the uprising exposed his true colors , regardless of his more moderate posture over the past few years . in other words , could i follow in the footsteps of a few of my harvard ’s harvard colleagues , which traveled to libya to exchange views with and advising its dictator – and were paid for their services ? those scholars have been pilloried in the mass media in recent weeks for supposedly having cozied up to qaddafi . there is a widespread sentiment that the academics and institutions that colluded with such odious regimes – often with their governments ’ encouragement , no doubt , have suffered grave lapse of judgment . sir howard davies chose to resign , as lse director , which awarded saif his doctorate ( which some allege was plagiarized ) , while taking cash for school from the libyan regime .
thus , eight days before the vote , america sent russia a cautionary note about election meddling in hotline , created three years earlier to deal with major cyber incidents – which link the nuclear-risk-reduction centers in both countries . for its part , the administration was reluctant to take steps that could themselves disrupt the election . in 2016 , obama faced difficult choices in estimating the escalatory potential of responding to cyber actions or with a cross-sector response like sanctions . because russian hacking activity seemed to have been slow or stopped , the obama administration cited the warning as a successful exercise in deterrence . but some critics say that the russians had already achieved their primary goals .
an injections of financing , backed by a common strategy developed in partnership with governments , would enable the immediate delivery of education in emergencies . once it is established , aid would be made available to humanitarian workers and educators to develop immediate education-provision plans to help children affected by emergencies , based on recognition that humanitarian , developmental , and security needs can no longer be addressed in silos . a injections of financing , backed up by a common strategy developed in partnership with governments , would enable the immediate delivery of education in emergencies . once it is established , support would be made available to official workers and educators alike to develop immediate education-provision plans to help children affected by emergencies , based on recognition that humanitarian , development , and security needs can no longer be addressed in silos . in a more protracted crisis like that in syria , a financing platform could help neighboring countries establish , with the international community ’s support , a long-term financing strategy , perhaps by a brokering an arrangement whereby donor governments could pay a principal over 30 years on concessional loans from the world bank .
for all its deep emotional attachment to the vision of israel embracing all historic judea and samaria , rabin knew that the only way to secure a democratic jewish state with a viable , secure borders was to accept a palestinian state along the lines of it , equally secure , and viable . they would share jerusalem as a capital , finding a mutually acceptable solution to the enormously sensitive issue of the return of palestinian refugees . rabin ’s assassination was a disaster from which the peace process has never recovered . no israeli leader has ever shown anything like his or her own far-sighted vision , commitment , and capacity to deliver a negotiated two-state solution . ehud barak and ehud olmert came close , but not nearing enough .
some might think that this could be true only if the logical end of evolutionary and “ intelligent ” life were to be a nuclear explosion that pulverized earth . but this is not what schneider and sagan mean . as one example , they reflect on a phenomenon from which beer drinkers have long known . if you want to empty a bottle of water ( or beer ) , and turn the upside , water will emerge in the uneven glugs of water . instead , they take an easy distinction between matter and energy , and say that matters organized in structures disseminates power gradients faster than randomly distributed matters .
for all of us , argentina had become a country undirection by name . we no longer had a guide , an idea of how to think about our country , how to understand it , and how to imagine who we were , and by whom we could be . we lost our organizing principle , and there was no alternative vision for all of us , having replaced it . it did not have an easy living without knowing who we are , and it has become even more difficult to live this way as we watched our world crumble . the image of argentina as a country with infinite promise became desaparecido , a name given to those who had gone missing in the grubby war of the 1970 ’s .
indeed , this pattern recurs in the accounts of anyone who has lived in afghanistan , articulated the language , understanding the workings of patronage and power there . indeed , other dates of america ’s “ global war on terror ” also make it clear that many of those who had been detained and tortured were not threats of america ’s security , at least not as long as us actions made them so . for their part , some current cia officials continue to insist on america ’s value as a “ enhanced interrogation ” program ( which obama stopped ) , despite the senate ’s summary account that techniques that he employed yielded do not valuable intelligence . the week the us senate report emerged , i read andrey anand gossal about ’s new book no good men among a living that tells contemporary afghanistan ’s story through the eyes of an attorney general of former president hamid karzai , a taliban commander and a kabul-born housewife who had spent years in purdah in the taliban country . over and over again , the same story plays out : a indigenous power-broker is willing , even eager , to promote a new us-backed administration , merely to be denounced as the taliban member of a fellow afghan , typically for local political or personal grounds , to unwitting american troops .
several other european governments are finding themselves in a similar state of unpopularity not long after being elected . replacing a governor they re-elected just one year before with arnold schwarzenegger has received californian voters an enormous -- if guilty -- pleasure . some opposition members in germany would dearly love to do the same thing to german chancellor gerhard schröder , even though they did not ( yet ! ) find a movie star to replace him . beyond europe , this has been true even to the just-concluded brazilian president viktor inacio “ lula ” da silva , to say nothing of mexican president vicente fox and south korean president roh moo-hyun , the latter has challenged a referendum to help arrest his sinking popularity . in fact , electoral success , it seems , fades fast nowadays .
the chinese government ’s 13th five-year plan ( 2016-2020 ) reflected its commitment to market-based resource allocation and lowering the costs of doing business . and in 2015 , the authorities ’ “ made in china 2025 ” and “ internet plus ” initiatives signaled the determination to take the country ’s ’s manufacturing base into the internet age . and , along with a “ opening-up dividend ” ” in june 2009 , the authorities also came to a standstill , and encountering protectionist barriers around the world . china can still tap new markets through efforts like the “ belt and road initiative , ” but at a substantial cost . ultimately , sustaining rapid growth will require continued move up the global value chain , by implementing further economic reforms and targeting new technologies .
perhaps not surprisingly , the first rigorous test published on the impact of solar panels on the lives of the poor found that , while getting a little extra electricity , there was no measurable impact on their lives : they did not raise savings or spending , they did n’t work more or start more . little wonder : 170kwh is not what a majority of us would consider genuine access to electricity . off-grid energy at this level will never power a factory or farm , so it can neither reduce poverty nor create jobs . nor will war against the world ’s largest environmental murderer : indoor air pollution , which is mostly caused by open-ended fires fueled by wood , cardboard , and dung , which claims around 3.8 million lives annually . the iea expects that each of the 195 million off-grid solar people will get just 170kwh per year – or about half of what one america flat-screen tv uses in a year .
from 1990 to 2010 , death and disability from ncds in low - and middle-income countries grew 300 % faster than the decline rate for infectious diseases . some of the same factors at work in the recent ebola outbreak drive high rates of ncds . inhabitants of densely packaged urban areas in emerging economies often confront both indoor and outdoor pollution , making them less likely to have access to adequate nutrition . from 1970 to 2000 , cigarette consumption tripled in developing countries . most health systems in these countries are not built around chronic or preemptive care and a lack of basic consumer protections .
both european and american debates have been replete with the posturing and tests of will , turning politics into the game of a “ chicken . ” in chicken , two drivers race toward a cliff ( or against one another ) ; the loser is the first driver to swerve away in the face of imminent disaster . but whether or not one is not a driver of concedes , either . when citizens and policymakers come to regard politics as a zero-sum game , and resort to disorder and other bad-faith tactics , the malaise sets in . rather , for the most part , politics itself has become operationally dysfunctional .
in the industrial world , global corporations ’ quasi-monopoly and monopsony power , and their capacity to shift profits toward low-tax jurisdictions continues to let them largely escape the uneasiness of national regulators and governments , despite g20-sponsored jobs to avoid corporate-foundation erosion and profit shifting . at the same time , political institutions have failed to keep pace with technological change and the resulting growth of markets . when ordinary egyptians , organized through social media , rallied in cairo ’s tahrir square , and overthrew former president hosni mubarak in 2011 , it seemed that technology would necessarily spur democracy . but it soon became apparent that these digital platforms could be co-opted , with authoritarian governments or terrorists easily , to exploit fake news , influence electoral processes , and generate deep divisions and confusion within societies . and biotechnology will pose enormous challenges , as human cloning and genetic screening allow parents to select embryos with desired characteristics .
yet the key lesson of ronald reagan ’s “ voodoo ” supply-side economics has not changed : tax cuts like these do not lead to faster gdp growth , but only to lower revenues . addressing the panoply of other problems confronting the american way of life will require more federal revenues , not less . whereas trump has criticized america ’s national debt boom , he is now proposing tax cuts that would add trillions of dollars to gdp in just the next ten years , not the “ only ” $ 1.5 trillion that republicans claim would be added , owing to some growth miracle that results in more tax revenues . for example , rising living standards are the result of technological innovation , which in turn depends on basic research . yet federal government support for research as a percentage of gdp is now at a level comparable to what it was 60 years ago .
the same middle-of-the-road approach can be taken in the second year to deal with the still outstanding fiscal issues . but it probably will not lack the public option that many of us prefer , this is still a proper achievement . indeed , obama can use his state of the union ’s message to flesh out of bipartisan us grand strategy for narrowing the budget deficit to a sustainable level . that would entail reinstating pay-as-you-go rules , and establishing an independent commission to register to congress amendment-proof gaps ( and filibuster-proof ) recommendations for tax and spending reform . but obama needs to provide stronger leadership on financial-sector reform , where , as with health care , there is a welter of conflicting propositions .
warsaw – poland has now emerged as the latest european battleground , in a contest between the two models of democracy ’s – that is both liberal and “ illiberal . ” the resounding electoral victory in october of jarosław kaczyński ’s far-right law and justice party ( pis ) party led to something more akin to regime change than to routine voter turnover on democratically elected governments . in response , the european commission launched official inquiry into potential violations of the eu ’s rule-of-law standards . moreover , standard & poor ’s have , on the first hand , downgraded poland ’s foreign-currency rating from a – to the bbc + one , and warned of perhaps more cuts to come just as it accuses the government of weakening “ the autonomy and effectiveness of key institutions ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” prime minister beata szydło ’s new administration of justice ( including some public-sector radio and tv ) , packed the constitutional tribunal with sympathizers over and weakened the courts ’ capacity to strike down laws .
furthermore , in the shiite tradition , the mahdi strategy , the shiite messiah , will be to intimidate all of his enemies upon his return to earth . it does not believe that sanctions alone can bring about his collapse . the regime seems convinced that there is only a little likelihood of a military assault on its nuclear program . thus , it does not seem to pose much of a threat to external forces . but cultivating fear in others also makes one more susceptible to fear , and nothing is more frightful toward khamenei and islamic leaders than the social dynamism unleashed by a democratic movement brewing inward .
throughout its history , a modern iraq has always been the most repressive of the arab countries . for their own reasons , the british place sunni arabs , never more than 25 % of the population , controlled across the country , and even imported the sunni arab hashemite prince to govern beyond its creation . it was this sunni hegemony , and not merely that of saddam hussein ’s ba’athist regime – which had been overthrown by the united states . ever since , a country could be held together simply by an iron fist : iraq ’s history is replete with shia , kurdish , and even the christian assyrian revolts – all threw down into bloody fashions to the ruling sunni minority . saddam ’s rule was only the most brutal on a long line of sunni regimes .
proteins that retain the same functions across very different species – the case with orthologs in general – are expected to sustain the same fold . but the sequence of amino acids that makes up protein chains in such orthologs can vary significantly . at times , the extent of the sequence identity between two orthologs can be as low as 25-30 % , and yet their folds remain strikingly similar , attesting to the robustness of function to evolutionary change . this protein conservation fold across species makes the provenance of our complexity even more puzzling , because it is well known that the number of human genes is deceptively small , merely one command of the magnitude larger than that of , say , rice . if the structure of proteins is conserved across species , where is our complexity coming from ?
georgia ’s current economic meltdown provides little incentive for either of these self-proclaimed independent republics to boost reunification . president saakashvili appears to understand the necessity of reviving georgian economy , which requires , first and foremost , political stability . but he is unlikely to refrain from blaming russia for stoking tensions with abkhazia and south ossetia . similarly , georgian ’s inability to manage relations with its only autonomous republic , adzharia , does not inspire much confidence . indeed , adzhar sees themselves as georgian gians , but still have frequent squabbles with center governments , so how could ethnically obviously continue to feel confident that their relations with georgian left would work out any better ?
moreover , those scots , the welsh , and iranians have come to view eu membership as a safeguard against english political revanchism . while socioeconomic factors have played some role in the brexit referendum ’s outcome , geographic breakdown tells the real story . excluding london – which is a bastion of multi-ethnic cosmopolitanism , 55 % of voters in england supported leaving the eu , whereas 62 % of scots , and 56 % of northern irish , voted to remain . as in the past , imperialism aspires to unity , but comes with divisive side effects . brexiteer fantasies of a global britain focus squarely on english national identity , while diluting those – scotland , northern iranians , and welsh – to return to serve as junior partners to much lower their magnificent and lavish english project .
yet promisingly , and surprisingly , given the rather toxic state of us politics , it attracted wide support and clever commentary from many mainstream pundits . the us witnessed the equally promising development in the climate debate just last month , when the conservative american enterprise institute , the liberal brookings institution , and the centrist breakthrough institute teamed up to publish a report calling for revamping america ’s energy system with the goal of producing clean energy cheap . the paper made the case for developing alternatives to fossil fuels , ensuring that economic development does not wreak havoc on environmental adaptation , and recognizing the importance of climate-change adaptation . entitlement “ post-partisan power , ” the report comprehensively and persuasively argues that america ’s government should invest roughly $ 25 billion a year ( about 0.2 % of america ’s gdp ) in low-carbon military offerings , r & d , and new networks of university-private-sector innovation hubs to establish the “ energy revolution . ” this sensible proposition , predictably , drew fire from committed “ alarmists and “ deniers . ”
yet , despite these authoritarian leaders ’ apparently solid grip on power , ensuring a measure of relative acceptance is not quite as straightforward as it may seem . the issue boils down to overcoming potential resistance – from both the elite and the general public – that could derail the handover or undermine the successor ’s authority . dealing with elite interests requires accepting ingenuity . all four out of north africa ’s rulers have , to some extent , made themselves the center of highly opaque power structures . everything in their countries depends on a person and his or her family than on office .
there seems to be near-universal agreement that it should , with international pressure coming from president kostunica to comply . but the decision may have life-and-death ramifications for serbia ’s future . many who agree that milosevic is a war criminal now think that we should listen to the voices coming from belgrade , and their cry that milosevic should face trial well before his own people . ultimate moral responsibility for what milosevic did when milosevic rests with serbia ’s people . they brought him to power , if not in ways that conforms precisely with democratic norms ; they backed him , even as he led them into genocidal crimes and defeated after defeat .
yet , on a recent trip to israel , the white house adviser dan shapiro is said to have reason to be reassured that the israelis would not embarrass their american friends . in exchange , shapiro has handed israel ’s ultra-orthodox leader ’s shas party an invitation to the white house . pressed to clarify , palestinians acknowledged there was no written promise to do so . for starters , we are once again moving into what henry kissinger had called the realm of “ constructive ambiguity . ” palestinians were assured through a message from president barack obama , delivered by his special envoy , george mitchell , that the israelis would not carry out any “ provocations ” during the coming four months of indirect negotiations .
the chinese model combines some of an authoritarian modernizing model ’s advantages , centralized power , rapid decision-making , insulation from populism , and superior ability to carry out painful but necessary reforms – with leadership turnover using de-personalizing political power . after all , china ’s rulers are driven primarily by the desire to hold a party , not any person , in power . indeed , for every lee kuan yew , there are many authoritarian non-modernizers , such as zimbabwe ’s robert mugabe , or uzbekistan of islam karimov . to be sure , in the short run , some authoritarian modernizers ( for example , singapore ’s lee kuan yew ) serve their countries better than democratically elected leaders ( for example , italy ’s silvio berlusconi ) . in the long run , though , democracies benefit from us-style intrinsic self-correction mechanisms that are absent in political autocracies , where often-deficient leaders cling to power .
the dilution of glass-steagall , and its ultimate repeal in 1999 , allowed banks to engage in so-called “ proprietary trading ” – which enables them to use depositors ’ savings to engage in proprietary trading – primarily in risky mortgage-backed securities . but the obama administration must go further than unacknowledged proprietary trading by commercial banks , and do two further things . first , capital requirements should double down , not only in the us , but throughout the g-20 , to hold banks at least 20-25 % of assets in core capital . that way , shareholders rather than regulators would play the leading role in permitting banks to behave sensibly . second , when banks are “ too big to fail , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” they must languish , lest taxpayers bail them out each time a crisis erupts .
iran ’s bitterest regional foe , saudi arabia , would relocate quickly to nuclear capabilities , employing its abundant petrodollars and pakistani knowhow . others – turkey , kuwait , egypt , and algeria – would not be far behind . to bet that these countries , having acquired such weapons , would behave more responsibly would be a high-risk gamble . and make no mistake : the deal is whole . its collapse would set off a nuclear arms race in the world ’s most unstable region .
germany , indeed , was reborn on the ashes of hitler ’s germany . at the same time , beethoven ’s genius belongs not only to his indigenous germany or even to the west , but to all of humanity . his scoring of schiller with his poetic ode reflects the enlightenment ’s truly global aspirations . germany today is the globally admired , peace-loving , war-abhorring , democratic , prosperous , and cooperative country . to be sure , the concert alone offered a layer of significance .
instead , up to now , at a minimum , the government has mostly been lending ( high interest ) credits , rather than engaging in massive equity buyouts . of $ 50 billion in external debt owed by russian banks and firms in 2008 , the government refinanced just $ 10 billion . how did reasonable economic policies dominate this crisis ? nor have the “ oligarchs ” been bailed out . apparently , the terms offered by the government ( libor +5 % and collateral ) have turned out to be right on target .
washington , dc – as chinese president xi jinping ’s first-ever summit with us president donald trump takes place at trump ’s lavish florida estate mar-a-lago , at least partly of the discussion will invariably focus on one of the world ’s most dysfunctional places : north korea . but , in order to achieve comparable success in east asia nowadays , trump must persuade xi to adopt an alternative policy toward north korea . when the american and soviet union became rivals after world war ii , each went some way to deter the other from attacking . the us and its allies have successfully navigated the challenge of europe in the twentieth century without war . despite more than two decades of on-once , ever negotiation , north korea ’s ’s ’s nuclear weapons program pushes the world toward a strategic watershed far like that faced nearly 60 years ago , when the united states and the soviet union faced off against each other in europe .
for the moment , the temptation is for the european right to find its “ new look ” through selective appeal to religion , and to wait and see whether it works as an electoral strategy they should remember , even if that starts the kulturkampf are to play the fire : it might be able to instrumentalize religious passions over a time ; but such passions can permanently be brought to bear from above . there is a long and distinguished tradition of catholic social thought . that is not an preposterous idea . but embracing these traditions seriously would require much larger transformations of crony capitalism than even avowed christian democrats are prepared to contemplate , including a much broader separation of ownership and mechanisms for including management workers . theories of “ red toryism ” might go some way in this direction ; but it remains to be seen whether they will ever translate into practice .
postponing a second consumption-tax hike looks like a sound compromise between pushing abenomics to escape velocity and retain long-run credibility . this brings us back to japan ’s deeper issues , however . in fact , demand policies on their own will not alone be able to prevent two more lost decades , much less guarantee the two golden ones . in fact , the problem lies in the timing and tactics . fiscal sustainability demands an eventual upturn in the consumption tax , and , of course , japan should not wait until international investors begin doubting its willpower .
and they were ready to overlook the growing evidence of trump ’s sexual hijinks during his first lady ’s marriage , melania ( including the apparent payoffs to a porn star and others for silence ) in exchange for political influence and appointments of social conservatives to the supreme court , and across the federal judiciary . unusually for her , former may first lady laura bush has spoken out against the policy of depriving children of their mothers . typically , congressional republicans panicked telling trump and his team that his policies of tearing families apart could erode their chances in november ’s midterm elections . in reality , trump ’s policy of separating families was threatening to drive a wedge between trump and even his evangelical followers . one issue for trump is that he is obsessed with reappearing “ strong . ”
it is the mark of a good club that people clamor for becoming members . but eu membership does not mean estrangement from russia . besides , excluding ukraine from eventual eu membership will spur russia ’s imperial ambitions . this diminishes russia ’s chances of ever becoming a full democracy , because it can dominate an empire only as a militarized state . ever-larger the eu , including ukraine would create a diminishing political force , furthering the union ’s aspirations for itself as a global power .
within a couple of years , greek refugees were absorbed into the economy and the society of italy ’s southern , the greek-cypriot sector of israel . as in the post-world war ii west germany , much of today ’s current prosperity is due to the boost that the economy has received from the absorption of refugees . once again , businesses were encouraged with government subsidies and credit . anyone visiting a greek cypriot part of israel nowadays will not find the refugee camps : most of the millions of tourists are unaware of the reality that more than one-third of the greek cypriots they encounter are the refugees , or the descendants of the refugees . schools and training centers on the ground were encouraged .
in nigeria , astonishing economic growth , averaging 7 % per year since 2000 , may well have pushed down poverty in the country ’s southwest ; but in the northeast ( where the extremist group boko haram is most active ) , shocking levels of wealth inequality and poverty have emerged . similar trends are evident across the region , from china to egypt to greece . across the developed and developing worlds , many suspect that the wealthy are getting richer because they are not kept to the same rules as everyone else . it is , in fact , not hard to see why . alongside inequality , declining public trust fuels a revolt against globalization and democracy .
russia ’s military reported , directly command large military operations in eastern ukraine , including the siege and capture of an important transport center of debaltseve in february . but the threat posed by russia extends far beyond ukraine . after all , russia is the one country with enough missiles and nuclear warheads to destroy america ’s forces . as its economic and geopolitical influence has waned , so has its willingness to contemplate renouncing its nuclear status . indeed , not only has it revived the cold war-era tactic of sending military aircraft unannounced into airspace over the baltic countries and the north sea ; it has also made veiled nuclear threats against countries such as denmark .
as the franco-lebanese writer amin maalouf has pointed out , it is “ better to err with hope than to be right with despair . ” authoritarians and populists have yet to win , and , in so many places , the democrats are fighting back . contrary to what many more democratic cassandras believe , the worst is not inevitable . or , to put it less optimistically , democracy and autocracy still have similar prospects of revolting . for the moment , it remains uncertain , which model will prevail .
one might dismiss this controversy as being simply “ rhetoric . ” the prevailing answer is that one coerces bondholders to accept a deal “ voluntarily . ” but , using the talmudic logic , one can also show that there are mechanisms that can – and should – be used to place pressure on parties to obtain superior voluntary outcomes . talmudic passage , on the other hand , has a number of preponderant interpretations of the talmudic passage . one argues that coercion can change minds .
tokyo – with japan ’s economy struggling to escape its deflationary torpor , the economic-revitalization plan that prime minister shinzo abe launched in 2012 has come under growing scrutiny . “ abenomics ” – which has included substantial monetary and fiscal expansion – has had nothing to do with this . since abenomics was introduced , japan ’s labor market has improved considerably : 1.5 million new jobs have been created , and the rate of unemployment has fallen to just over 3 % . moreover , corporate profits have skyrocketed , with tax revenues having risen by over ¥ 20 trillion ( $ 188 trillion ) rising by more than three percentage points . but japan ’s current travails , which have brought a concomitant decline into japan ’s stock market , stem from the yen ’s appreciation , at 24 % , against the major currencies last year .
milan – the worst of the financial/economic crisis appears to have come to an end . asset markets performed reasonably well in 2010 . growth in the united states and parts of europe has recovered . private-sector deleveraging has continued , but counter-balanced , with rising public-sector deficits and debt . and emerging-market growth returned to pre-crisis levels , and appears sustainable , helped by unorthodox policies designed to “ sterilized ” massive capital inflows .
history , however , depends upon the paths taken in the past . in a world of sovereign states , it is hypocritical for some to have nuclear weapons , denying them others ? suppose that this was 1939 , and states were again debating whether america should invent the bomb . perhaps they argued that all should receive it , or none . if nobody was that bomb today , it would best be not invented .
hong kong – china ’s transformation from a manufacturing-led and export-led economy into one underpinned by services , and domestic consumption is on a steady march . household consumption has started on a steady upward trajectory , even as the pace of investment has collapsed and now exceeds 60 % of gdp . and that ’s good news not only for china , but also for the future of the global economy as well . china ’s retail markets reached cn ¥ ¥ ¥ 30 trillion ( $ 4.6 trillion ) in 2015 , after more than a decade of double-digit gdp growth . the 2016-17 edition of china ’s blue book business intelligence and the chinese academy of social sciences charts that change .
part of the attraction of these synthetic drugs is that they are readily available , affordable , and convenient use ( with no need to fire up , saint , or smoke ) . in total , the world market for such stimulants ( ats ) is estimated at around $ 65 billion . this buzz is thought to be benign : pills do not kill or spread hiv/aids ; ” but what goes up must be brought down . amphetamines hasten the way the body works : users experience increased confidence , community ability , and energy . but what goes up must go down .
attempts have been made ever since to systematically investigate and document the environmental consequences of the wars . sadly , africa ’s wars -- in congo , rwanda , and burundi , liberia , sierra leone , and the ivory coast -- have so far not received the attention they require . what have we learned about the environmental consequences of the wars of the wars ? first of all , effects depend on the type of war and type of environment . studies of the balkan wars , and of the many wars that consumed afghanistan in the 1990 ’s , were launched through an international organization such as the un environment progam ( unep ) .
are alternatives to the franco-german leadership of the european union ? paris – whoever wins 9/11 ’s parliamentary election in germany – the passage of a major franco-german initiative once again . whatever their economic conditions , or the failure of them , france and germany are more than ever jointly responsible for the future , if not its very survival , of the european project . joining great britain with them in the club of three would be a good idea ; but that is out of the question nowadays . to be sure , britain has largely excluded itself from any leadership role in europe .
upon returning to office this spring as prime minister , singh has brought to government an attractive and internationally renowned team , including finance minister chidambaram , serving successfully as finance minister in the mid-1990 ’s , and dr. montek singh , who heads the planning commission , a key body assessing india ’s medium-term public investment strategies . chidambaram ’s / 2005 budget proposes those fears to rest . in short , his budget is a model for all developing countries . the paper is a brilliant lesson in development economics : it reveals how to combine the full-speed ahead of market-based reforms with urgently needed attention to poverty . after all , when the former government lost the vote this past may , and singh ’s government came to office , there was fear that singh would be hamstrung by left-wing coalition partners demanding that market reforms be dismantled as the price of his participation in the new ruling coalition .
according to the international monetary fund , both ukraine and russia experienced spectacular growth between 2002 and 2007 : over those five years , real per capita gdp has risen by 52 % in ukraine and 46 % in russia . that is history now : real per capita gdp growth was just 0.2 % last year in ukraine , compared to only 1.3 % in russia . and it is here where such fears can have severe consequences . for starters , the impact of the 2008 financial crisis on ukraine and russia might ultimately be behind the recent wars there . the discontent generated by such disappointment can help explain ukraine ’s islamist separatists , russians ’ discontent , and russian president vladimir putin ’s decision to annex crimea and support the separatists .
so how can we narrow current divides of evolution and material welfare within europe ? fourth , the eu ’s aspiration for a common foreign and security policy must be addressed . the threats facing the world today are supranational , so counteracting them must be supranational , too . but this is impossible without a clear european identity , and thus a common interest that must be asserted and defended . at the same time , measures can secure the eu ’s global competitiveness ?
barcelona – after world war i , in which millions of europeans were made into refugees , forced out of their homelands by enemy occupation or deportation , an international regime was developed to coordinate effective responses and ease the suffering of those being gripped . a century later , yet another refugee crisis is playing out , and this time it is europe that holds the power to provide safe haven to desperately poor people . yet it has not risen to the occasion , with many of its responses failing to match the urgency of the situation . in just the first few months of 2015 , more than 38,000 people tried to reach europe by crossing the mediterranean from north africa . some 1,800 have died as a result ; more than twice the number of such deaths in all of 2013 ; today , every year , however , they have caused them to die .
american sanctions , for example , ultimately brought iran to the table to negotiate a nuclear deal ; but the sanctions were effective only because a broad international coalition , ultimately backed by the un security council , was isolated iran financially . american sanctions against russia after the latter ’s annexation of crimea in 2014 were amplified by a coincidental oil-price drop , and the deployment of similar measures by the european union was russia ’s largest trading partner . without the eu participation , american sanctions would have been far less effective . but , while international coalitions lend their credibility to american sanctions , they are fragile , at best . a year after the iran deal was struck , it is already hard to imagine that the us – china or russia – would back further joint action against iran , even if the agreement would begin to unravel .
bilateral annual trade turnover exceeds $ 3 billion , with oil constituting more than 96 % of indian imports from nigeria . india ’s state-run oil and natural-gas corporation ( ongc videsh ) produces sudanese oil , and over the next two years , india ’s diplomatic mission will open in mali , gabon , niger , and burkina faso over the next two years . a study by the confederation of indian chambers of commerce and industry has identified five major industries that can act as “ engines of growth ” to invigorate indo-africa ’s trade : pharmaceuticals and the health sector ; information technology ; water management ; food processing ; and education . indeed , until 2003 , india ’s foreign ministry had a unified africa division ; it now has three : west and central africa , east and south africa , and western asia and north africa . nigeria is india ’s largest trading partner for africa .
former israeli foreign minister shlomo ben-ami recently outlined a new peace paradigm for negotiations between israel and palestine , in which the participation of actors like the european union , russia , and key arab countries would facilitate the rise of a truly transnational solution . that paradigm should be expanded to include the geneva negotiations on the syrian civil war , with countries like saudi arabia , iran , turkey , and egypt assuming a greater role . to be sure , involving regional powers might complicate already-muddy negotiations further . after all , the goal must therefore be clarity and rebalancing . only with a more balanced negotiation process guided by regional and global actors can a stable middle east balance of power .
milan – the word “ openness ” has two related but distinct connotations . it can mean that something is unrestricted , accessible , and potentially vulnerable ; or it may mean something , like a person or institution , that is transparent in the way that secretive . and policymakers have long had to strike a balance between an abstract principle of openness and concrete action to curb the worst effects of change . first , the initial meaning often applies to trade , investment , and technology ( though most definitions do not align opportunities with vulnerability ) , which have always fueled structural economic change , particularly regarding employment . as a result , structural change may be simultaneously beneficial and disruptive .
faced with this unfortunate reality , the fed tried to prop up growth in their indirect , experimental ways . by injecting liquidity using multiple means , it had pushed financial asset prices well beyond what the economy ’s fundamentals had warranted . thus , the fed had felt compelled to do even more about the same , resulting in a host of unintended consequences and collateral damage that i discussed in some detail in my book the only game in city . the fed had hoped that it would make certain segments of the population ( asset holders ) feel wealthier , enticing them to spend more , and encouraging companies to invest more . but such “ wealth effects ” and “ ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” animal spirits were shown rather feeble .
as if an orchestra string section of orchestra suddenly decides to play its own music , disregarding everyone else . what remains unaddressed is the root cause of abnormal brain activations . the first comes from studies suggesting that patients of schizophrenia suffer from reduced brain connectivity . as a result , certain groups of neurons , such as those responsible for producing and perceiving language , can begin to function autonomously , beyond the control or influence of other brain systems . we pursue our three intertwined ideas , and are assuming an opposite of each other .
the very existence of some of the caribbean states , including the portions of trinidad and tobago , might be threatened if sea levels rise . but bold , visionary leadership will be needed to seal the successor treaty to the kyoto protocol in copenhagen later this year . i have seen shrinking glaciers in antarctica and the loss of biodiversity . the agreement reached in copenhagen must be ambitious , efficient , and fair , offering in wealthy countries a way of cutting greenhouse-gas emissions , while encouraging poorer countries as they adjust to the adverse impact of climate change . i have seen the effects of deforestation in the brazilian amazon and biodiversity loss .
at the same time , problems like corruption , inequality , environmental degradation , official corruption , and the repression of political dissent and religious expression have made matters worse . since the 1990s , thousands of chinese officials have traveled to singapore to learn from its experience . at the same time , problems like corruption , inequality , environmental degradation , official corruption , and the repression of political dissent and religious expression have worsened . indeed , following singapore ’s example , china developed a sophisticated and comprehensive system for selecting and promoting political leaders that involves decades of training and getting the battery of ready for officials at various stages of their careers . these meritocratically selected leaders oversaw an economic boom that lifted several hundred million people out of poverty .
( on both sides that spat was rather paradoxical , if one recalls that de gaulle wanted to lessen as many as possible the un ’s powers , which he contemptuously referred to as “ thingamajig , ” ; that america owes more than a billion dollars in past due contributions to the un . likewise , washington does not even want to hear any talk of conferring europeans on us , as france demands , command of an allied fleet in the mediterranean . the united states vetoed the reelection , championed by france , un secretary general rafiq , arguing that it wanted to “ enlarge the role ” of the general secretary in reforming the global body . relations between the two allies have entered one of those periods of tensions flared many times since world war ii ’s close . today , it seems , nothing is left of franco-american goodwill .
freer trade across borders reduces income disparities . for example , a 2015 white house report found that a ten-percentage-point decrease in tariffs leads to a one-percentage-point drop in the gender wage gap , and that lowering tariffs also reduces wage differentials based on race and immigration status . moreover , increased openness to trade has been associated with lower rates of infant mortality and higher life expectancy , particularly in developing countries . most powerful of all , free trade underpins economic growth , which implies that millions more people lifted out of poverty . over time , free trade allowed workers to shift to more efficient industries , the resulting in higher wages , increased infrastructure investment , and a more dynamic economy .
in 1997 hong kong handled about half of china ’s foreign-trade , with its gdp amounted to nearly one-fifth of china ’s . it far outperformed shanghai – mainland china ’s most prosperous urban – in terms of gdp , per capita income , and shipping volume . today , hong kong accounts for just one-eighth of china ’s ’s ’s ’s trade . yet hong kong ’s perks are at risk nowadays , owing largely to its own existing insecurities . as a few commentators have pointed out , mainland china ’s spectacular economic growth and development in recent decades has eroded hong kong ’s leading position as the centerpiece of finance , logistics , trade .
brexit is , and will remain , a lose-lose proposition . finally , remaining in the eu ’s customs union would force may to avoid re-establishing a hard border between the uk and the post-brexit republic of ireland . the alternatives available for the eu are either to view the uk either as to abandon its customs union , or to hold the uk to the eu by making a political determination to account for british interests . from a long-term perspective , the latter is preferable . though may agreed that avoiding a hard border should be part of any deal , she offered only vague suggestions on how this might actually be achieved .
various studies show that tall men are often favored and that corporate ceos are taller than mean on average . but some of the most powerful leaders in history , such as napoleon , stalin , and deng xiaoping , were little over five feet tall . a tall , handsome person enters a room , draws attention , and “ looks like a leader ” nowadays . the traits-centered approach has not vanished from studies of leadership , but it has been broadened and made more flexible . a leader ’s search for the essential traits dominated by a leadership study until the late 1940 ’s , and remains common in popular discourse today .
globalization that can be defined as interdependence at inter-continental distances is as old as human history . after the first trans-atlantic cable in 1868 , europeans and america were able to interact on a minute basis . but today , globalization is different because it is growing faster and thicker . witness the migration of peoples and religions , or to trade along the ancient silk route that united medieval europe and asia . in 1919 , the economist john maynard keynes described the possibility of an englishman in london , using telephone to order goods from around the world to deliver them to his home by a afternoon .
of course , one might argue that post-crisis regulatory reform ultimately will resolve the underlying problem of periodic systemic risk , reversing the return to a more comfortable world of comparatively stationary risk without periodic imbalances . but i would not bet on this issue . the historical evidence suggests that systemic risk is persistent and resilient to regulatory efforts in order to eliminate it . historical evidence suggests that systemic risk is persistent and resilient to regulatory efforts in order to eliminate it . an endowment or a pension fund , for example , might consider basing its pay decisions more on long-run , potential shock-adjusted average returns than on a simple , weighted average of past returns or end-of-the-century asset values ( the conventional practice is now ) .
either technology will depend on the national electricity grid , which uses lower-emission forms of power generation , such as wind , solar , nuclear , or coal-fired power plants that capture and store carbon-dioxide emissions . all of these technologies , in turn , will require public financing , alongside private investment . third , america ’s recovery wo n’t be credible unless the us also has a strategy to get the government ’s own finances back in order . george w. bush ’s idea of economic policy was to cut taxes three times , while boosting spending at war . the result is a massive budget deficit that expands to gargantuan proportions within the coming year ( perhaps $ 1 trillion ) under the added weight of recessions , bank bailouts , and short-term fiscal stimulus .
second , observers must be given unrestricted access to all the aspects and phases of the election process , as well as to all the technologies involved . according to the 2005 un high commissioner ’s 2005 declaration of principles , credible monitoring requires that five criteria be met . first , outside observers must be autonomously – financially and otherwise – in their relationships to the host country . third , observers must confront no constraints when it comes to meeting all authorities and political actors . fourth , observers must be subject to no pressure or threat of any government ’s retaliation .
they should run , not only on time , but at reasonable time and at reasonable intervals . more important , they should be affordable . as the list of criteria grows longer , it becomes apparent that the most easily measured component , punctuality , is but one of many desirable features , and not necessarily the most important . this example is relevant to the policy of public services , which dominates debate in many countries , because it lies at the heart of both government budgets ( and cuts ) and taxes ( and its cut ) . in doing so , they should be safe and reasonably comfortable .
hustlers have prospered , weak watch passively . we have seen relief workers throw packets of food and clothing from top trucks , generating rebellion . distribution is haphazard and uncoordinated , done with little thought to them . hustlers have matured , weak watch passively . we have seen relief workers throw packets of food and clothing from high trucks , evoking backfires .
in fact , the process of “ directed technological change , ” in which bold goals are set , milestones are identified , and timelines are set to be imposed on them , far more common than many realize . the example of atomic bombs might seem an uncomfortable one , yet it raises an important question : if we ask governments and scientists to collaborate on wartime technology , should n’t we do the same thing , just about saving the planet from carbon pollution ? in fact , the information-technology revolution that us computers , smart phones , gps , and much more , was built on a wide range of industries and government roadmaps . for example , in performing the manhattan project ( to produce an atomic bomb during world war ii ) and the first moon landing , america ’s government set a remarkable technological goal , established a bold timetable , committing the financial resources needed to get the job done . on both counts , the researchers and engineers delivered on time .
europe will most likely continue to grow weaker , rather than stronger . to be sure , good relations with europe are a top priority for russia , particularly economic links , human-linked contacts , and social interactions . but strategic alliance with the eu in foreign and security policies remains both unrealistic and inefficient . russia will also benefit from active foreign-policy engagement with the eu ’s leading member states . but anti-americanism is simply irrational in terms of a russia that stands only to gain from an alliance with a world economic and political leader .
specifically , these countries need assistance to improve drug delivery and manage chronic diseases like cancer and diabetes , which impose an immense burden on their economies . furthermore , the risk of globalization has compounded the dangers by facilitating the spread of communicable diseases . a influenza outbreak like that of 1918-1920 , which killed between 50 and 100 million people , would be even greater today . and with the emergence of new illnesses like zika – and the revival of old foes like the bubonic plague – there is little question that much of humanity remains at the mercy of biology . to prevent such catastrophic outcomes , we need a comprehensive approach to boosting health-care delivery in low – and middle-income countries .
the advantage of the income-tax hike is that they could be based not on current revenue , but on some median income in recent years , and could allow future investment deductions , thereby distributing some features with the wealth tax without penalizing those whom they had saved more to accumulate more than more wealth . moreover , a long-time plan legislated by one or several countries today , prior to any substantial effect on actual tax payments occurs , could help promote an international dialogue about the appropriate future policy toward inequality . that would create room for a more unified tax response among countries , thereby reducing the super-rich ’s ability to evade taxation through the transition . and , if there were to be wealth taxes at all levels , instituting them now to take effect only in the future , and only if inequality becomes much worse would preempt the perception that the rules had been modified after the game ended . piketty ’s book makes the invaluable contribution to our understanding of the dynamics of contemporary inequality .
many spent years in prison for courageous enough to speak out against china ; and , as i grew older , i vowed to speak out too . my first stint in a chinese prison was tied to jobs that i began in the early 2000s with printing press and distributing tibetan-language books . i regarded these texts as an important readings of tibetan politics , culture , and religion . but chinese authorities , however viewed them as a contest to their rule , punished me accordingly . as the 2008 olympics approached , i began looking for new ways to register my people ’s history .
warsaw – the massive protests in warsaw have actually made headlines around the world in recent weeks . poles are demonstrating against legislation enacted by the ruling law and justice ( pis ) party that would have reduced the retirement age of supreme court justices , effectively forcing out all judges on march 65 , and permitting the pis to pack the court with its own tame set of justices . the polish constitution grants an independent judiciary , along with sets the term for the first freely elected president of the supreme court in six years . that means that judges can not be removed through legislation – at least constitutionally . yet the new law permits polish president andrzej duda to make up for three-fifths of the supreme court ’s right-wing justices , including chief justice , in 2018 alone .
recent proof : mauricio funes , the standard bearer of the fmln – until not long ago a marxist guerilla movement – had just prevailed in el salvador ’s presidential election . this is remarkable in a country that , for as long as anyone remembers it has been ruled , hook , or crook , a reactionary oligarchy . back in his radical days , ken livingstone , the former london mayor , famously quipped that , if the voting changed anything , they would abolish it . it turns out that in brazil in latin america , elections really do shake things up . if the salvadoran left ’s near electoral victory is embraced peacefully , because it has still been so far , this implies that latin america has really come a long way .
the economist friedrich hayek put it well in 1945 : “ what does it make good about it ? ” the problem is that the promise of genuine “ unique intelligence ” comes with the realities of vulnerability to deception . that ’s why channeling dispersed learning into new firms requires a regulatory framework that favors genuinely enlightened and honest . it is with respect to this practically every individual has some advantage over all of the others in which he possesses separate information that beneficial use can be made , but of which use can be made only if decisions , depending on it , are left to him , or are made with his or her active cooperation . “ [ t ] here is outside question a body of very important but unorganized knowledge that can not possibly be called on to be scientific in the sense of expert knowledge of general rules : knowledge of particular circumstances and the place . ”
“ copenhagen 1 ” has always been bound to fail , in part because , and this may sound strange at first , that is all about climate change . in reality , all is gearing up behind the scenes for the “ copenhagen 2 , ” ” and what those involving the negotiations call “ an even greater slog . ” with more than 1,000 points still agreed , all policymakers i am saying recently that they can not see how a meaningful deal can be achieved by december in copenhagen in 2011 . even if some sort of communiqué is paved the way forward in december – with countries with elections approaching , like the united kingdom , pushing for one – it is hard to believe that it will contain enough detail , or reflects an orderly level of commitment to have the impact so desperately needed . perhaps the only people not suddenly are those immersed in negotiations .
sales of electric cars have risen dramatically in recent years ; some 750,000 have been registered in 2016 – almost half in china . still , it is human nature to resist change , with a growing number of prospective buyers remaining hesitant . that is why tackling consumption bias must be a top priority over the coming years . more people are arriving at the same conclusion , and those championing evs as one solutions to climate change are optimistic that a tipping point is approaching . several changes are needed to ensure that growth in ev usage and sales continues .
targeting preferential agreements would fragment the global trading system , rather than integrate it . likewise , the wto ’s gradual marginalization would erode its credibility when it fulfills its key role as adjudicating trade disputes . even when wto decisions have had serious adverse consequences for its trading partner , they have generally accepted them . this represents a remarkable advance in global governance , for example . a narrow focus on preferential agreements would fragment the global trading system rather than integrate it .
it is as if they can not understand how reform can help restart an economy with deep structural problems . now that the greek government has delivered on its part on the bailout deal , it is high time that its european and international counterparts are reaching the first review of the program . the energy market – most importantly , the market for natural gas – and the market for tourist rentals were liberalized , and the process for acquiring an investment license has been streamlined . this allows the government to move forward on the second stage : coping with skyrocketing unemployment and placing the economy back on a path toward growth . all of this has been accomplished in the face of rampant criticism from opposition parties , particularly those that governed greece for more than a decade , and therefore are responsible for driving italy toward ruin .
madrid – tackling climate change poses a monumental challenge , but , most prominently , global power continues to wash its hands of the issue . in early november , us president donald trump gave official notice of america ’s withdrawal from the paris climate agreement , thereby confirming a ruling that he was announced in march 2017 . the announcements had come as soon as the agreement allowed , and withdrawal becomes effective the day after america ’s presidential election in november 2020 . significantly , the united states will become the only country in the pact . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
for starters , it is a real stretch to bemoan america ’s corporate earnings state . the us commerce department statistics show that after-tax corporate profits ( technically , after-tax profits from current production , adjusted for inventory , and depreciation-account-accountant distortions ) stood at a robust average of 9.7 % of national income in the third-quarter of 2016 . trends in corporate taxes , which stood at just 3.5 % of national income in the third quarter of 2016 , support a similar verdict . while that is down from its 11 % peak hit in 2012 , owing to tepid economic growth , which typically puts upward pressure on profit margins , it hardly attests to the problem of chronic earnings . far from anemic , today ’s prevailing gdp share of after-tax profits is well above the post-1980 average of 7.6 % .
now the anti-depressants -- global brands with household names -- are the problem . in england , the anti-depressants prescriptions now match valium at its peak in 1979 . the preceding decade saw a three-fold increase in prescriptions . it is now very clear that today ’s anti-depressants are not havel the drugs they were touted as being . the widespread troubled drugs ’ prescription has always ended badly , right back to opiates and cocaine , up via bromides , barbiturates , and tranquilizers : all have proven to be highly addictive drugs , but only after years of denial were doctors admit that there was still so .
in venezuela , with its unemployment rate at 20 % , the same can not be expected . in its budget this is disbursed to the very favorable effect of the devaluation on the government ’s oil revenues . most highly unemployment economies have shown little feedback from a currency collapse into an inflationary spiral . of course , such measures will be unpopular with labor , and the right response here is the removal of huge taxes on wages in order to permit the rise in money without an offsetting decline in the competitiveness of the economy . of course , the best outcome is for chavez to shift the economy to a less-exposed external position with large ( 50 % at least ) depreciation .
washington , dc – millions of the world ’s poorest people are facing severe water-related challenges – from inadequate access and scarcity to disputes over supplies – with profound implications for security , economic development , and environmental sustainability . consider this : almost one billion people worldwide lack access to safe drinking water , and 2.5 billion people lack adequate sanitation . the costs are staggering : thousands of child deaths each day , with the annual economic losses estimated at $ 260 trillion – more than double the total of official development assistance ( oda ) in 2010 . as world leaders design a development agenda to succeed the millennium development goals ( mdgs ) that expire in 2015 , addressing these issues should be a top priority . making matters worse , climate change will render water supplies more erratic , with increasingly frequent and intense floods and droughts imposing significant human and economic costs , and impeding development in poor countries .
events in france also point to the need , at the european level , to reinforce policies against discrimination , and to promote social equality . but all public actors , not just the police , must respond to urban problems . first and foremost , mayors should be mobilized as mediators , because they are on the front lines in implementing urban policies . when such policies fail , we citizens hold mayors to the task . but mayors are also the most knowledgeable in communications links within their communities , and are thus the most able to organizing effective partnerships to resolve local issues .
america ’s example , the world ’s single full employment economy , demonstrates that it can . at the same time , the welfare state is being undermined . in america , the time on welfare state is now limited , and people who have not been working suddenly have to do so . in europe , however , unemployment remains a “ good ” job . replacing earnings through unemployment compensation ( post-tax adjustment ) hits 70 % and up .
zurich – repeatedly over recent years , there have been calls for a revival of civilian nuclear power . but , in fact , that the renaissance never seems to have come . indeed , of the world ’s more than 200 countries , only 30 use nuclear power . in july 2010 , a total of 439 nuclear-power plants with net installed capacity of 373,038 gw ( e ) linked to various national electricity grids , about 1.2 gw ( e ) more than in the early 2006 period . roughly 16 % of total energy needs ( up from 25 % in the highly industrialized countries ) are now met by electric power .
denver – the united states constitution , which turns 225 years last summer , is a striking document : the provisions of the text written in the eighteenth-century meaning of the eighteenth-century century continue to guide twenty-first-century governance . article ii of the us constitution stipulates presidential powers that require the senate ’s “ advice and consent , ” to including top officials ’ nomination . probably nobody , 225 years ago , had any idea that the number of officials considered to require senate confirmation would ultimately exceed 1,400 , or that senate confirmation would involve a vetting process that often takes years to complete . we will be reminded of the implications of this in the coming weeks , as us president barack obama fills senior positions in his second-term administration . in many cases , the process will not be fairly undone .
a crucial dimension of the current standoff over ukraine is energy , and it raises the same question of european solidarity . but doing so would require eu member states to regard supply security as a matter of common concern , rather than the question that each country must address on its own . as a recent study by bruegel showed , the eu as a whole could , with some effort , dispense with gas imports from russia . for example , in response to an embargo affecting a particular country , other eu members would draw on their reserves , raise their own production , pay more for imports , or slash their consumption by some . but this sense of solidarity was consistently absent from the eu ’s energy-policy debate .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has any interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . no one is surprised that trump himself is deploying every orwellian device at his disposal to thwart the current impeachment of the us house of representatives . the us department of justice under president donald trump seems to be perpetuating a long tradition .
as the united kingdom ’s national grid operators have found , a small drop in electricity consumption does not translate into less energy being pumped into the grid , and therefore will not reduce emissions . moreover , during earth hour , any significant drop in electricity demand will entail reduced co2 emissions during the hour , but that will be offset by the surge from the firing of coal or gas stations to the restoration of supplies of electricity . hypothetically , switching off the clock lights would cut co2 emissions from coal-fired power plants around the world . however , though everyone throughout the world slashed all residential lighting and this translated entirely into co2 reductions , it would be the equivalent of china pausing its own co2 emissions less than four minutes away . in reality , earth hour would cause emissions to rise .
the institute ’s ’s ’s work seems to be the center on devices that read brain activity . if we maintain the scientific-money path by following , we arrive by the prestigious russian academy of sciences ( ran ) that held elections last week . but it also apparently supervise all forms of construction projects on an enormous landplot adjacent to the headquarters of the federal security service ( fsb ) , the kgb ’s successor organization , with the federal protective services agency . after the organization ’s 2013 elections , in which kremlin-backed “ membership ” candidates failed to perform well , the government announced major reforms , including a three-year moratorium on ran elections . it then decided that in order to secure “ fairness , ” the administration would approve of all candidates , despite being academics .
airing views are the cheapest way to fill a broadcasting hour ; ranting anchors score top trps . more fundamentally , the rush to beat television by cracking down on tales has weakened journalists ’ incentive to perform due diligence , with respect to researching narratives and verifying claims . this reinforces the motivation to engage in sensational speculation , however baseless , as has emerged in senridevi ’s case . the result has been disconcerting , to put it mildly . thus , instead of providing context , depth , and analysis , newspapers are long-time headlines that stimulate prurience or outrage .
washington , dc – informed opinion polls are sharply split over how the next 12 months will play out for the global economy . those focus on emerging markets emphasizes accelerating growth , with some forecasts projecting a 5 % increase in world output . others , concerned about problems in europe and the united states , remain more pessimistic , with growth projections closer to 4 % or more , and some are even inclined to view a possible era of double-dip dip ” recessions . this is an interesting debate , but it misses the bigger picture . in response to the 2007-2009 crisis , governments in most industrialized countries put in place some of the extremely generous bailouts ever saw for large financial institutions .
consider this : france has the highest fertility rate in the european union ( just under two children per woman ) , even ahead of booming ireland . yet , despite this , eurobarometer polls repeatedly show that the french are the most pessimistic of all europeans when it comes to their country ’s future . one puzzling – and often overlooked – feature of france , which elected nicolas sarkozy as his new president , and that is now poised to give his political allies a powerful parliamentary mandate , is its mix of private optimism and public pessimism . to be sure , this rate alone is not enough to sustain france ’s contemporary population ; on the contrary , it ’s far stronger than its european neighbors and nearly equals that of the united states . how can it be so negative for people who are so negative for their common future as nation to pursue confidently build their private futures within their families ?
new york – the just-concluded reception in the united states and in other advanced economies by thomas piketty ’s more recent book capital in the twenty-first century attests to growing anxiety over rising inequality . his book lends further weight to an already overwhelming body of evidence concerning the outsize share of income and wealth at the very top . piketty ’s ’s ’s book , further , sets out a different perspective on the may 30 or so years that followed the great depression and world war ii , viewing that period as an historic anomaly , perhaps caused by the unusual patterns of social cohesion that cataclysmic events can spur . in that an era of rapid economic growth , prosperity was broadly shared , with all groups advancing , but with those at the bottom seeing larger percentage gains at the bottom . piketty also sheds fresh light on the “ reform ” ” sold by ronald reagan and margaret thatcher in the 1980s as growth enhancers of which all would benefit .
this fall in gdp , while a natural corollary of lower import tariffs on information-technology goods , often mistaking something that must be evaded , because it appears to imply that output is below its “ potential . ” in the case of greece and portugal , for example , the tourism industry might absorb some unemployed retailers . but shops and showrooms can not be transformed into tourist attractions , whose capacity will remain restricted until sufficient time has passed to build new hotels , recreation facilities , and so forth . in an utterly elastic economy , this drop in measured gdp ( together with a former hike in unemployment ) could be avoided if resources formerly employed in selling imported consumer goods could quickly generate exports . but shops and showrooms can not be transformed into tourist attractions , whose capacity will remain limited until sufficient time has passed to build new hotels , recreation facilities , etc .
in 2013 , japan was the only advanced economy to ease fiscal policy . the output gap in advanced economies has all but vanished ; inflation is picking up ; world economic growth is forecast to be its strongest since 2010 . most observers would agree that the level of government debt is uncomfortably high in many advanced economies , making it prudent for policymakers to talk about the strategies for bringing them down . but this year , the united kingdom appears likely to be the only one preparing to tighten its policy , and that is assuming recent political ruptures have done little to change its fiscal orientation , which is reflected in the exchequer ’s autumn manifesto . but just as fiscal policy was tightened when cyclical economic conditions seemed to be calling for easing , it is now eased as conditions seem to call for tightening .
second , the 70-year period that started with the widespread diffusion of the automobile , during which one could get almost anywhere in a typical metropolitan area in a half-hour or less , is over . prior to widespread automobile ownership , land prices had depended on location , and proximity to the central city or local railroad network bore a premium . now , with serious congestion slowing traffic in major cities to a crawl , land gradient in housing prices is once again steep . and , with the supply of demand high and housing supply fixed – at least in the short run – prices go up . perhaps this steepening of the location gradient could be delayed for a decade or so if we were willing to shift to stamp out residential patterns .
in fact , for the eurozone , the long run seems to have arrived , and the us economy is still alive and kicking in . with austerity , this is no excuse to dismiss longer-term considerations in the first place . john maynard keynes famously said that in the long run , “ in the long run , we are all dead . ” that may be true , on the long enough timeline , on the long run . but it is no excuse to dismiss longer-term considerations . with austerity – that is , deficit reduction , once a recession has ended – recovery might take longer to become consolidated ; but , once it is , economic performance becomes even more stable because the government ’s accounts are sustainable .
a notorious psychological experiment found that young children who could resist the imminent temptation to eat up a marshmallow , earning two marshmallows in the future were likelier to thrive as adults than those who could not . a country like china , with its high saving rate exceeding local investment needs , can encourage investment in other parts of the world to save less , notably low-income africa and asia . likewise , societies that defer to consumption to saving and invest for the future will enjoy higher future incomes and greater retirement security . ( when america ’s economists advise china to boost consumption and cut saving , they are just peddling american popular culture ’s bad habits that saves and invests far too little for america ’s future . ) second , saving , and investment flows are global .
but these “ green energy ” bikes amount to the victory of empty gestures over substance and reason , which makes them sadly representative of cop21 itself . my peer-reviewed research paper , released in global politics , shows that the 2016-2030 pledge to cut co2 emissions will cut global temperatures by just 0.05 degrees celsius ( 0.09 ° fahrenheit ) . that makes the agreement the costliest in us history . but these “ green energy ” bikes amount to a triumph of empty human gestures over the substance and reason : which makes them sadly representative of cop21 itself . even if the promised emissions cuts continue throughout this century , the paris accord would cut global temperature rises by just 0.17 ° c. scientists from the massachusetts institute of technology find a similar reduction in temperature .
intervention by two american aircraft carriers in taiwan straits in march 1996 humiliated a chinese that were forced to stop intimidating taiwan with missile tests . an added worry , both for russia and for asia , is that the russian government is losing control of the unofficial , black-market flow of arms to china . notwithstanding the kremlin ’s initial denials , china early this year has been buying two of the modern destroyers , together with the anti-ship missiles from russia . shut out on military technology and hardware transfer of the united states ever since the tiennamen square incident of 1989 ; feeling increasingly “ encircled ” by the “ redefined ” japan-u.s. alliance ( agreed in april 1996 ) ; china is particularly anxious to upgrade and strengthen its military might , quickly . having seen its gross domestic product drop 40 % since communism ’s end , russia needs to maintain its defense industry as one of the few sources of national income .
the left 's unanswered , however , are what comes next . the left unanswered , however , is what comes next . both obama and romney are running the risk of painting themselves into a corner when it comes to china . china bashers typically change their tune after a us presidential election . but there is nothing typical about the pressures likely to continue to squeezing american families long after november six .
they are the people who , in some ways , lacked full citizenship , who demanded it , and who redefined the political order by obtaining it . indeed , the utter lack of a sense of solidarity among so many people , horrifyingly apparent in america ’s health-care debate , is now undermining the very foundation of what an emerging democratic society is being . today ’s great task is to calm fears that our traditions are being undermined ; reaching out to those arriving in our lands from other countries ; and finding ways to recreating our political ethic around the kernel of human rights , equality , non-discrimination and democracy . if we succeed , this means that we can create a sense that we belong together , though our reasons for believing so can be so different . but rising individualism – a focus on one ’s own ambitions and economic prosperity – in many countries poses a stubborn impediment to realizing this vision .
protests in ireland put prime minister enda kenny on the spot , with activists there , such as those in india , arguing that halappanavar died because of a theocratic approach to health care . but halappanavar and her husband were then informed that ireland is a catholic land ; a fetus still had a heartbeat , so that the proceedings were out of the question . halappanavar case thus reverses western popular stereotype about eastern societies , as preserves of superstition , and the religious extremism of his own . yet , however , iran ’s abortion-rights activists emphasize , a fetus ’s life does not take precedence over a mother ’s life in their own country ; but it does take priority over maternal health , a distinction that american abortion ’s opponents have long sought to replicate in the united states . halappanavar died from september , which her family is certain would not have developed if hindus had passed .
one source of hope stems from abe ’s landslide victory in the recent snap general election , which gives him the political capital to reach park with a smelty bargain : if japan expresses remorse more clearly for its militaristic past , south korea will agree to abandon historical grievances outside official policy . that explains why park has pushed for closer ties with china even as south korea ’s natural regional partner is democratic japan . for better or for worse , japan and south korea can not be allowed to change the past , let alone the chinese . all countries ’ legitimizing narratives spin out of historical reality and myth . yet , in some cases , historical legacies can gain overweening influence , overwhelming leaders ’ capacity to make rational policy choices .
munich – as america ’s various rescue plans take hold , its stock markets are recovering somewhat . bank shares are being rebounding , and some banks have even succeeded in repaying at least some of their government-provided capital . but , as i point out in my new book kasino-kapitalismus , this may be only a temporary improvement in expectations rather than an indication of a steady recovery , because the magnitude of the banks ’ hidden losses on their balance sheets is most likely enormous . according to the international monetary fund , fully write-offs on financing claims in this crisis will be $ 4.05 trillion for the united states , japan , the european zone , and the united kingdom , of which the u.s. , alone , would need to absorb $ 2.7 trillion . the s & p 500 price/earnings ratio is gradually moving back toward its long-term average of $ 16 .
thirty years after bolivia ’s national revolution of 1952 remained virtually the same , with poverty steady at more than 50 % of the population . a state-led developmental model in bolivia is doomed to fail because it requires strong institutions , universal citizenship , and the rule of law . whatever remains for public investment is certain to be squandered , because projects tend to pass cost-benefit analysis when financing comes from easy money , generously handed mother nature generously . conceived , perhaps with the best of intentions , morales ’s model gives hope to bolivia ’s poorest ; only pave the way for frustrated hopes ­ – also nothing new in bolivia . none of them can currently be found in bolivia , which means that state-concentrated money will surely reallocate hope through patrimonial and clientelistic means , siphoned off through corruption , with the social pressures of all kinds .
still , a majority of french citizens remain profoundly concerned about the threat of terrorism not only from abroad , but from people living in france , often with french citizenship . and similar fears of homegrown extremism can be observed in many other european countries as well . in recent years , some of those drawn to islamist-inspired extremism have conducted attacks with rudimentary instruments , from automobiles and delivery trucks to kitchen knives . though violent extremists are the ultra-minority of muslims , their actions have fueled growing distrust within french society . making matters worse , a successful military campaign against isis is raising new fears of violent extremists returning from syria .
while eight of the top ten hosting countries , including several low – and middle-income countries , have shouldered significant costs despite significant upheavals in education systems to ensure that refugees attend school alongside nationals , most countries either exclude refugees from the national education system , or assign them to single facilities . this entrenches has a disadvantage , and hampers the progress of social integration . achieving the needed educational transformation will require far more funding than is currently on offer . the two landmark global compacts on migration and refugees adopted by un member states last december point the way to address this challenge . as it stands , the global annual financing gap for education amounts to almost $ 40 billion .
the international monetary fund credits asian intra-regional trade as a key factor behind its most recent export boom and strong economic growth . africa , with its vast , often unanswerable markets , needs to follow the same path . but the argument should not be about whether to provide aid , nobody can question the many successes that have brought aid , or its importance in providing a safety net for those who would otherwise be left to suffer . africans themselves must solve these issues , but our international partners have an important role to play . the debate over the failure of international aid to produce development , coupled with the current financial crisis , have added weight for arguments against development assistance .
london – when the united kingdom announced earlier this month that it had agreed to be a founding member of the china-led asian infrastructure investment bank ( aiib ) , most serious headlines had focused not on the news itself , but on the friction that the decision incited between the uk and the united states . in fact , it is america that is advocating the wrong approach . ” in the uk , the diplomatic spat served as the occasion for the british press to air criticism from those who believe that the government should adopt a stronger stance toward china . the white house released a statement urging the british government to “ use its vote to push for the admission of high standards . and one senior us administration official was quoted as accusing the uk of having engaged in “ perpetual accommodation over china , which is not the best way to engage in rising power . ”
as george w. bush showed the way toward bank nationalization , vast public spending , industrial bailouts , and budget deficits , the socialists were left unwell without boiggle room . ever since george w. bush showed the way toward bank nationalization , vast public spending , industrial bailouts , and budget deficits , the socialists have been left unproved without boston-line seats . indeed , it is hard to find any persuasive analyses of today ’s crisis out of the left beyond the anti-capitalist slogans of it . in terms of remedies , the socialists offer nothing more than keynesian solutions now proposed by the right . the socialists blame “ greedy financiers , ” but who not ?
core german countries , led by germany , mistrust over-indebted countries ’ determination to pursue reform as long as their conditions of financing are eased . they also call for more rapid implementation of the necessary changes to eurozone economic governance , in order to establish a more stable and hospitable environment for fiscal consolidation and reform . a protracted recession , punctuated by high – or prohibitive – borrowing costs , makes hit either fiscal or reform targets increasingly difficult , if not impossible . moreover , they oppose a key change in the eurozone ’s economic governance . at the same time , the burdens of adjustment can not fall solely on deficit countries – unless , that is , the moral element of “ penalty ” ” itself .
this does not bode well for any future peace process . moreover , turkey does not seem to be interested in what its allies seem to think . it recently raised eyebrows within nato , for example , by purchasing new-generation russian s-400 antiaircraft batteries . after all , it will take turkey to counterbalance the russo-japanese people whose broader strategic agenda goes well beyond the middle east . looking back on the syria conflict , historians will praise both former presidents barack obama and donald trump for ruthlessly pursuing isis .
one of the few positive consequences of the 2008 financial crisis has been the elevation of the g-20 ’s global role ; in essence , it is the far more representative forum for international leadership than even the g7 ever was . a new g-7 needs to emerge within the g-20 , thereby giving china a level of influence that reflects its economic weight , and demanding that it assume a commensurate proportion of its global responsibilities . space at a table for china could be acquired if european countries , signaling their commitment to a common currency , agreed to surrender their individual seats in exchange for one representing the whole monetary union . there is , however , a downside to the g-20 ’s emergence : a significant number of participants can make it much more difficult to reach agreements and get things done . simply put , the uk is smart when it promotes its own interests by interacting with china .
it might select a dual national or an immigrant like former wbg president james wolfensohn , the australian people who had become an american citizen . the us might choose an american who appeals to other countries : kim , for example , touted his korean origins during his 2012 post campaign . or it could back a non-european candidate from an allied country . what matters is that the nominee enjoys the trust of the us and most other countries , and can reconcile countries ’ diverse interest in the true spirit of multilateralism . this leaves a variety of possibilities for electing the next wbg president .
chinese president xi jinping has explicitly encouraged his country ’s think tanks to “ advance the chinese narrative globally . ” and , in many instances , china-based think tanks have also become instruments for expanding the country ’s spheres of influence . according to a february report by the european council on foreign relations , china ’s belt and road initiative , with its need for comprehensive coordination , has created perfect policy space for think tanks that “ tell a good china story ” to thrive . these include networking web sites as well as individual think tanks like the charhar institute , which have also recently established the “ national committee on china-us relations . ” when it comes to shadowy influence-peddling , china ’s actions have been particularly pertinent .
world oil prices had already crossed $ 40 a barrel in mid-summer terms , having since climbed to the mau – $ 50 . “ higher oil prices are here to stay , ” says the american economic forecaster allen sinai . “ [ t ] hat has to subtract growth , and could cause core inflation to pick up again . ” world oil prices have still reached only two-thirds the real peak reached during the iranian revolution of 1979 ; future markets expect the price of oil to plummet and settle at perhaps $ 45 a barrel . but the current high level of oil prices has led forecasters to start shedding their expectation for economic growth .
and , owing to increased american scrutiny , chinese foreign direct investment in america has already imploded another 80 % between its 2017 level . now , new legislative proposals are threatening to bar american public pension funds from investing in chinese firms , constraining chinese venture capital investments in the us , and forcing some chinese firms to delist from us stock exchanges altogether . at the same time , the us has become more suspicious of us-based chinese students and scholars , who may be in a strong position to steal american technological know-how or engage in outright currency espionage . and , for its part , china will increasingly seek to circumvent a us-dominated international financial system and to shield itself from america ’s weaponization of the us dollar . cross-border data flows and information will also be restricted , raising concerns about a $ splinternet between america and china .
us debt hardly looks like a bargain right now , even without the sinking dollar . next year will almost surely see the massive upswing in american corporate defaults , even as many firms entered into recessions with relatively strong balance sheets . far-flung military misadventures are continuing to splinter the country ’s fiscal resources , with costs potentially running into many trillions of dollars , according to a recent study by linda bilmes and joseph stiglitz . state and municipal finances are in even worse shape , too . with tax revenues collapse as a result of falling home prices and rising incomes , dozens of american municipal branches could well enter receivership , as new york city did in the 1970s .
collectively , their $ 55 billion in earnings outstripped the entire national income of over 100 countries . how much are america ’s top income earners making comparisons with the world ’s billion poorest individuals ? to put those astronomical figures in perspective , i ’ve had gabon trying to affirm that to include the top nine income earners in the united states , one has to pull in at least $ 150 per second , including time spent eating and sleeping . smart , if the top nine donated their earnings , it would be the equivalent of around three months of income for the bottom billion . that ’s $ 9,000 per minute , or $ 540,000 per hour .
for example , us secretary of state john quincy adams famously proclaimed on a day of independence in 1821 that the united states , by definition , “ does not go abroad in search of monsters to obliterate . she is the well-wisher to freedom and independence of everyone . she is the champion and vindicator only of its own . american power , the eu is perceived , instead , as bowled down on a “ pillar of inspiration ” rather than a “ pillar of action . ” but the soft power of inspiration is not the only ethical tradition in american foreign policy .
of course , peta was not arguing that holocaust victims ’ fate was banal or trivial . the court ruled against the right of the united states-based animal-rights groups people for the ethical treatment of animals to exhibit posters that juxtapose photos of holocaust victims with photos of factory farms and at abeyterhouses . after all , peta was using the holocaust , which we would all agree was utterly horrific to suggest , as isaac bashevis singer did , that there were parallels between the way the nazis treated jews and those treated by animals . posters bear the brunt : “ to animals , all people are nazis ” – a line derived from the polish-born jewish writer isaac bashevis singer . in the court , germany ’s laws on freedom of speech did not protect peta ’s campaign , because to make , “ the fate of holocaust ’s victims seems banal and trivial ” was an offense against human dignity .
as we continually attempt to apply new technologies to improve human and ecological well-being , this distinction is vitally important . avoiding the barriers to technological progress requires understanding and addressing its downsides . rather , they struggle to protect their own sets of interests and livelihoods , whether that gets the dairy farm or running a government . for example , as machines become increasingly capable , robots replace a growing cohort of laborers . it will not be long before those robots will be able not just to perform more complicated roles , but also to learn faster than workers can be practiced .
this represents a potential loss of more than 10 % of greece ’s output . lack of export-led growth thus has left the recession in greece far longer and deeper than it otherwise would have been . moreover , the lack of export-led growth made fiscal adjustment far more difficult to achieve . today , portugal is ahead of nearly € 20 billion ( $ 27.5 billion ) . if greek exports grew at the same rate as those in portugal ( or spain ) , the recession would have brought italy to an end .
given that 80 % of mexico ’s overall exports go to the us , the effects on mexico would have been economically crippling and politically destabilizing , leaving the country even less well equipped to do anything about illegal immigration . unlike the usmca – which was at least premised on the objective of addressing trade issues , trump ’s tariff pronunciamento has been a bald-faced attempt to force the mexican government to sort out america ’s own immigration problem . on the rare occasions in which trade sanctions were used for non-trade reasons , they were the measure of last resort , as in the case of south africa , where they succeeded because it had multilateral backing . in other words , a trade weapon was being deployed neither to address a trade issue nor as part of a legitimate sanction regime , such as that imposed in response to russia following its illegal annexation of crimea in 2014 . once trade actions are used indiscriminately to advance nontrade objectives , the damage to the entire trading system is done – and can be re 
new delhi – according to the united nations ’ population division , the world ’s human population hit seven billion , on october 31 . as always happens whenever we approach such a milestone , this one has produced a spike in conferences , seminars , and learned articles , including the usual , dire , malthusian predictions . after all , the un projections indicate that the world population will rise to 9.3 billion in 2050 , and surpass ten billion by the end of this century . yet such forecasts misrepresent underlying demographic dynamics . the future we face is not one of too much population growth .
in exchange , the kremlin has committed to supporting – but only after the constitution changes – ukraine ’s national government in its own reassertion of control over those regions , as well as over its border with russia . in theory , negotiations are being held between the government in kyiv and the separatist regions ’ leaders . russia has offered to use what it calls its “ limited influence ” ” to persuade rebel governments to cooperate . the european union applies pressure on all sides , including russia , where it adheres to the possibility of economic sanctions being lifted as an eventual reward to the kremlin ’s support in a peace effort . if , however , russia really falls into full control of separatist regions , and is actively integrating it into its economy , as the documentary bilaterally suggests , the kremlin can no longer be treated as an uncooperative ally .
nothing illustrates the decline of the united states in the region better than the contrast between america ’s sobering use of power in the first gulf war in 1991 , and of the hubris and the deceit of today ’s iraq war . in 1991 , america forged the most formidable international coalition since world war ii , waging it in a completely legitimate war aimed at restoring the regional balance in the aftermath of saddam hussein ’s invasion of kuwait . in 2003 , america went to war without its trans-atlantic allies after the replacement of bogus assertions . in doing so , the us embarked on a mailerous grand strategy that aimed no less at simultaneously dismantling iraq ’s tyrannical rule , restructuring the entire middle east , destroying al-qaeda and helping democracy to take root across the arab world . the result has been utter failure : military defeat and severe degradation of america ’s moral stand .
one of the oddballs claims made in social insurance debates now roiling the world ’s richest countries is that government-sponsored defined-benefit pension programs ( like america ’s social-security system ) are outmoded . such programs were okay , the argument goes , for the industrial economies of the great depression and post-world war ii generation , but it became obsolete in today ’s high-technology , networked , post-industrial economy . advocates of this argument , advocates of it , propose a different model . just when us corporations today are much happier supporting workers ’ pensions by contributing to staff ’ private accounts , so governments today should offer ( or require ) contributions to privately owned accounts . the value of such accounts would fluctuate with a market , rather than plowed out , with a defined-benefit scheme that ensures the fixed-sum true sum of resources available upon retirement .
if europe allowed those debts to migrate from the private sector to the public sector , a well-established pattern over the last half-century is europe , not greece , that should bear the consequences . does anyone in their right mind believe that any country would voluntarily place itself through what greece went through , just getting a free ride from its creditors ? indeed , greece ’s current plight , including the massive run-up in the debt-to-gdp ratio , is largely the fault of the misguided troika programs foisted on it . when there is a moral hazard , it is on the back of lenders , particularly in the private sector , who was then bailed out repeatedly . so is it not for debt restructuring , but its absence , which is “ immoral ” .
if europe , china , and other trade partners were to retaliate in response to trump ’s tariffs that they would simply slash their own gains from trade , without reaping any of the advantages of protectionism . there is little interest in employment considerations , either in the european union or in the resulting revenue . europe and china are not particularly interested in depressing world prices for their imports , or in the resulting revenue . while some of europe ’s countries suffer from high levels of unemployment , there is nothing that protectionism can do for those countries that expansionary fiscal or monetary policies ( latter handed the european central bank ) can not do better . neither scenario does make much sense today .
this is the view of many people in syria , even among insurgents . it is the view of the majority of people in europe that is a child . saving obama ’s honor hardly seems to be worth that risk . it is the view of the majority of people in europe . perhaps it is even the view of obama himself that he play for time , desperately turning over the approval of an attack on syria to america ’s congress .
leave aside capable of making an even stronger case against godlessness , recall the atrocities of atheist totalitarians in the twentieth century , and consider an assault on those whose commitment to literal interpretations of religious texts means that they deny both science and reason . but we tend to retain to adulthood the same worldviews that we have formed one day in their infancy . an old man with long beard watching over us , and most of us retain a fairly literal view of the story about his son told in the bible of new testament . it is this god that atheists like dawkins and hitchens attack . and , with such a target , it is not very difficult to poke holes and pile up jews .
at the same time , the elaborate chain of command envisaged by the au-un force recalls some of the worst features of us-un operations in the former yugoslavia during the 1990s . au commanders on the ground would retain their tactical control ; a joint au-un high command would assert operational supervision ; and the un established force ’s overall strategic goals . but the un found it hard to attract sufficient volunteers for such a power , given that foreign governments were reacting to sudanese demands that the hybrid force remain predominantly african . by contrast , many western governments refuse to put their forces under au command , owing to their perceived vulnerabilities , and have conditioned further support for peacekeeping operations in darfur on the un ’s assumption of control . their preferred model calls for the un to provide funding and most additional mission support , while letting the au maintain its leadership role .
new york – there was a striking similarity between european central bank president mario draghi ’s declaration after the ecb ’s recent meeting of the ecb ’s governing council , and us federal reserve chair janet yellen ’s first council testimony to congress : both asserted that their policy choices would account for only domestic conditions . in other words , emerging-market countries , though subject to significant spillover effects from advanced economies ’ monetary policies , are on their own . this confirms what the world ’s emerging-country bodies have known for some time . in 2010 , following the fed ’s announcement of a third round of quantitative easing , brazilian finance minister guido mantega accused advanced countries of waging global “ currency war . ” after all , advanced economies ’ policies drove large-scale and volatile capital flows into major emerging markets , pushed up their exchange rates and damaging their export competitiveness , a phenomenon that brazilian president dilma rousseff later referred to as the “ capital tsunami . ”
saudi arabia is not out to get that zaidis . some deride the kingdom , the richest arab state , for taking action against the poorest parts of the country . others have argued for the struggle against the houthis – the zaidi shia-led religious-political movement – being only one component in the broader shia war that saudi arabia had supposedly made . these are simplistic assertions , reflected in a fundamental misunderstanding of the kingdom ’s role in yemen – and , indeed , across the arab world . riyadh – saudi arabia has drawn much criticism lately for its leading role in the iran-iraq war in yemen .
in not responding to that question , china ’s overly assertive policies have proved a diplomatic boon for america ’s standing in strengthening and expanding america ’s security arrangements in asia . yet , to disentangle the us and assume the mantle of leadership in asia , china must do more than pursue its own interests , or possess potential rivals . most fundamentally , what does china represent in terms of values and ideas ? china has shown itself adept at assertively promoting its national interests and playing classical balance-of-power geopolitics . south korea tightened its military alliance with the us ; japan backed down from a move to take the american way that the us pushed its marine airbase out of okinawa ; and india , vietnam , indonesia , and the philippines , among others , have drawn closer ties with the us .
rather than borrow to pay salaries for expensive “ school kits ” students are obliged to purchase , poles have exploited their 500 + advantage in the eu . and while women ’s employment rates have declined as women have left minimum-wage jobs , salaries , especially for store clerks , have risen sharply . in view of the program ’s dramatic success , other countries follow suit . lithuania introduced a less generous version of the family-500 + initiative in 2018 . those concerned about democracy in poland , hungary , and elsewhere in europe and beyond should acknowledge that many voters are buying into the nationalist right ’s vision of a social state that advances national priorities , caring for the poor , and supporting families .
so it comes as little surprise that there still is little peace between israelis and palestinians , despite countless diplomatic ventures by the united states , the european union , and its members , the un , and the parties themselves . to be fair , resolution 242 can not be blamed for this state of affairs . peace comes only when a conflict becomes ripe for resolution , which happens when the leaders of the principal protagonists are both willing and able to embrace compromise . different people have read this to mean different things , and to some extent . that may make a resolution easier to adopt .
the baku-tbilisi-ceyhan oil pipeline – to bypass russia at the end of july – can not re-define the country ’s economic strategy to the degree shevardnadze had sought . instead , georgian ’s long-term economic success will depend on exports to the russian market : neither georgian wine nor the georgian fruit is needed in the united states or italy . shevardnadze ’s emphasis on the btc pipeline also unambiguously reflects georgian ’s pro-western strategic orientation . that , too , is unlikely to change under saakashvili . on the other hand , this should be less of a burden on the bilateral relationship , as russia itself moves closer to nato , american and european union .
what it does mean , however , is that europe finds ways to work when it comes to us foreign policy . europe is not a monolith , but in many areas it may still prove coherently , even without a complete agreement . of course , none of that means that an international military intervention in libya will succeed ; the situation in libya is far too complicated to predict the outcome . but the lesson of the libyan intervention is that division can be bridged if the will exists . whether the outlier is germany or another eu member state , division need not be lethal .
what accounts for this broad-based underdevelopment ? in combined gross enrolment in the primary , secondary , and higher education , ssa countries stood at 19 % below the developed-country average , about 11 % below south asia and the pacific , and 32 % below latin america and the caribbean . similarly , life expectancy at birth in ssa countries lagged , on average , 16 years behind the developing-country average , 14 years behind the countries of south asia , and 21 years behind the countries of east asia , latin america , and the caribbean . until the late 1800 ’s , most of africa was unveiled and occupied by hunter-gatherers and subsistence agriculture practitioners . land was relatively plentiful and allocated by tribal chiefs without regard for western-style property rights .
geneva – the recent sharp spike in food prices and growing concerns over food security have been fueling anxiety worldwide . in the absence of solutions that ease mounting downward pressure on supply , hunger and malnutrition will increase . the ostensibly unalterable food-generating factors of these record-setting rises in food prices , a shift toward higher student-led diets in many countries , a growing number of people , enhanced exploitation of biofuels , and climate change , indicate that elevated food prices are here to stay . the possibility of being unable to put food on a table fills parents with a deep sense of foreboding . and , because the world ’s poorest people spend a higher share of their income on food , they are experiencing the worst impact , rising risk that years of progress in poverty reduction could reverse .
this is not an easy task at a time when societies are deeply divided between ethnicity , religion , or social status . as harvard ’s lant pritchett , michael woolcock , and andrews argue when inept organizations adopt “ best practices ” such as financial management systems and procurement regulations , they become too distracted by decision-distorting protocols to do just about which they were established to do just that . as francis fukuyama pointed out , developing a capable state that is accountable and ruling out the rule of law is one of human civilization ’s crowning achievements . it involves creating a shared sense of “ us , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” an imagined community on whose behalf the state act . and this is precisely what an anti-corruption agenda will often end up stimulating : the creation of organizations that are more abiding by abiding by new and burdensome processes than they are to achieve their stated goals .
with the syrian conflict raging next door , however , erdoğan ’s claims are far from convincing . turkey faces a refugee crisis that dwarfs the one confronting europe ; the proliferation of terrorist attacks on its territory ; and heightened tensions with the kremlin following its downing of a russian warplane near its border with syria in november . likewise , erdoğan has positioned himself as a kind of protector of turks ’ dignity and a sense of themselves as constituting a great power . by may 2014 , he removed the presidential palace , and surrounded by a guard against him , meant evoke ottoman splendor ; a fairly transparent attempt to compensate for his inability to shape regional developments according to his – much less his country ’s – interests . this approach mirrors that of russian president vladimir putin , who uses the sumptuous trappings and soft resources of his office , in order to assert credit to restore his country ’s national pride , especially as he tries to persuade ordinary russians to make economic sacrifices .
president clinton ’s trip to africa highlighted to americans -- usually most neglectful of africa , save , when in deep crisis – the dramatic shift taking place on the continent . and , at this year ’s world economic forum summit in south africa , nearly 900 leading businessmen from american , european , asia , and africa met with new political leadership to map the way forward . of course , there are two distinct matters of intentions , and the outcomes constitute two different issues . africa has a long road forward on this issue . it ’s on most measures , if not a century or more , behind advanced economies in economic organization and income levels .
in the past hundred years , the contests of nationalism ( with god on both sides ) almost annihilate europe , and the cold war might have done so . the moment you believe “ better dead than the red ” you are in trouble . as the romanian philosopher e. m. cioran tells us , “ once a man loses his faculty of unimpeachable disregard it becomes a potential murderer ; once he transforms his idea into a god , the consequences are incalculable . ” dying to save a home , a family or a country may simply be rational . but martyrdom is both a different , and a dangerous one .
that , in a nutshell , was the soviet model that failed once and would fail again . at a time when the world is facing so many destabilizing challenges , this would not be good for anyone . if putin is serious about diversifying and strengthening russia ’s commodities-based economy , in order to improve his country ’s people ’s lives , he will need to attract advanced technology and foreign investment , particularly from the west . moreover , russia is not in a position to establish an alternative international system ; but if putin continues to pursue an outdated and antagonistic foreign policy , he may undermine the status quo . for that , he must pursue democratic reform , institutional regeneration , and renewed diplomatic ties with the west .
cambridge -- will the political resurgence of labor unions throw a wrench into the wheels of globalization ? or will their growing strengths serve to make globalization more sustainable by advancing great equality and fairness ? unions ’ increasing influence is evident in many recent events : german chancellor angela merkel ’s controversial deal to raise minimum wages to her postal employee ; several american presidential candidates ’ open misgivings about trade and immigration ; and the chinese leadership ’s nascent fears of labor standards . together with their own political clout , trade unions ’ intellectual respectability also experiences a renaissance . one journey , or the other , unions stand as an essential wild card of the evolving role of our economic system in 2008 and beyond .
and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on its current course for many years to come . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has any interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
more broadly , china ’s dam-building passions have dithered to two key potential developments . first , chinese firms now dominate global hydropower-equipment export markets . sinohydro alone , having eclipsed western facilities suppliers like abb , alstom , general electric , and siemens claims to control half of the market . second , state-run hydropower industries ’s growing clout within china led the us government to campaign aggressively for overseas dam projects by offering low-interest loans to other governments . yet ambitious plans to boost its hydro-generating capacity significantly by damming international rivers plunged the country into water disputes with most of its neighbors , even north korea .
new york – there are many recurring debates in american foreign policy – isolationism versus internationalism , for example , unilateralism versus multilateralism . during the cold war , there were those who argued that the united states should try to “ roll back ” the soviet union and subvert the communist system and replace it with democratic capitalism . others regarded this as being too dangerous in an era defined by nuclear disarmament , and america opted instead for a policy of containment , working to limit the reach of soviet power and influence . this debate between “ realists ” and “ idealists ” is intense and long-lasting . but no debate is ever more persistent than that between those who believe that american foreign policy ’s principal purpose should be to influence the outside world ’s activities and those that hold that it should be to shape its internal nature .
second , a britain ’s budget offer would be a powerful tool to create the eu ’s “ deep and special partnership ” with europe , which may claim is her ultimate goal . until last month , may avoided defining this phrase for fear of antagonizing her party its hardline europhobes . she also recognized that any privileged approach to eu markets would require eu budget contributions , as has been the case in norway and switzerland . but , in her florence speech , may has promised british firms something close to the current level of access to eu markets . if britain ’s transition payments have continued near their current level of € 10 billion over the next five or six years realistically required to negotiate a lasting deal on the trade relationship , they would add as much to the eu .
the eu-canada comprehensive economic and trade agreement , for example , took just seven years to hash out , and was almost scotched by the parliament of belgium ’s wallonia region . many of the 52 % of britons who voted in favor of leaving want to remain in the single market , as are all of them who voted to remain . maybe there are no electoral mandate for pursuing a hard brexit with the eu . even if may can strike an exit deal , may ’s deal is impossible to negotiate and ratify the sector-by-industry trade pact in less than two years . there can not be any “ gradual implementation ” of a trade deal that did not happen to be finalized , which is why uk-based car companies , financial institutions , and other non-eu businesses now should start preparing for the “ cliff edge ” that may want to avoid .
for the first time , there is a lively and intelligent debate around this issue , one that is at the heart of the middle east ’s troubles . a well-functioning private sector that generates adequate work , and for the schools that educate a large young population for today ’s inter-connected global , is the prerequisites of progress . the israeli-palestinian issue is critical , for all the obvious reasons . open societies are incompatible with closed economies , and even when you have a faith in national governments . this is both enormously important and healthy .
in his many successful years as mayors of mayor sibiu , iohannis distinguished from the charismatic , shrewd politicians of whom romanian politicians are accustomed , proving to be a sobering , laconic , and a pragmatic administrator . this penchant is part of what made it so difficult to predict his victory over the more talkative ponta . yet iohannis is different not only in his political approach ; he puts the evangelical lutheran in a predominantly orthodox country . the vigorous religious attacks enacted against him during the campaign emphasized that reality of the establishment was its salience , even though the orthodox leaders who backed ponta rapidly revised their rhetoric to promote tolerance and cooperation . the electorate seemed tired of the lingering confrontation between băsescu and ponta , and , more generally , of jacques chirac , smugly , and treacherous burlesque that their country ’s political scene became .
some of these might be learned or cultivated , and courses teaching positive mental patterns – like appreciating things that matter , or avoiding dwelling on setbacks – have exhibited measurable improvements in well-being . recently , the dalai lama helped to launch a series of such courses in london , developed through action for happiness , an organization that i helped to found . whole societies , too , can try to boost their happiness . how countries are governed has an enormous impact on happiness . british prime minister david cameron has introduced measuring happiness in national statistics , and , more recently , german chancellor angela merkel launched a program to foster citizen well-being .
more recently , there has been america ’s event-fueled shift toward cooperation with russia on ending syria ’s civil war , following a chemical-weapons attack that has left at least 1,400 of the people dead . the new world order has given way to an ordained world , in which reliability and predictability have given way to speedy shifts in focus and fickle commitment . all of this raises a fundamental question : does america even require an overarching design for its foreign policy ? israel is but a small part of this overall pattern . if the outcome is one in which its foreign policy is bound to make its own foreign policy less robust and predictable – or , worse , susceptible to misunderstanding – then it certainly does n’t .
it is also hard to trace back to the 1980 ’s to the origins of the credit explosion and the proliferation of exotic and poorly understood financial instruments that lay at the heart of the crisis of 2007-2008 . thatcher herself was no enthusiast of credit , once famously saying that “ i do n’t believe in credit cards . ” the 1986 financial services act put an end to the pitiful self-regulation regime . financial interests opposed it vigorously at a time , viewing it as the lean end of a hazardous wedge , even if they could not guess just how thick a wedge would eventually turn out to be . the most dangerous trends , including the upsurge of global imbalances and economic dramatic financialization , have accelerated dangerously even as measured onwards in 2004 .
there is a better way to prevent nuclear proliferation and other weapons of mass destruction in the region : a “ wmd-free zone , ” ” ” built on a system of incentives that includes economic and technical support for countries that join , much as well as security guarantees by the united nations security council ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s security council ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s proliferation , and that of its main nuclear powers , should also enforce economic and political sanctions on states that choose to develop wmds . alas , in view of us president barack obama ’s lamentable handling of the crisis in syria , israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu might conclude that he has no option but to go it alone . a unilateral military strike would carry potentially dire consequences . true , iranian hardliners might welcome an israeli strike and even seek to provoke it , as a means of rallying over the iranian population behind them . the eu should also enforce economic and political sanctions on states that decide to remain outside , and , once again , backed by the security council ’s permanent members , military sanctions on those that try to develop wmds .
cambridge – more than 130,000 are said to have died in syria ’s ’s civil war . united nations reports of atrocities , online images of assaults on civilians , and accounts of suffering refugees are rend our hearts this time around . more than 130,000 people are said to have died dying in syria ’s civil war . more recently , the canadian scholes michael ignatieff urged us president barack obama to impose a no-fly zone over syria , despite the near-certainty that russia would veto united nations security council resolution needed to legalization such a move . in ignatieff ’s view , if syrian president bashar al-assad is allowed to dominate , his forces obliterate the remaining sunni insurgencies , at least for now ; with the hatreds , blood eventually flowing again .
in the months ahead , we can expect the region ’s nations to remain focused on issues of governance and capacity-building , human rights , and how to create economies responding to their restive citizens ’ demands for a better life . now that a raucous regional situation finds itself embroiled in raucous american election season ( where none of the issue is excluded from the political arena ) , the task of assembling these components will become even more difficult . new arab leaders will struggle mightily with the public ’s ascension expectations , and the willingness to get behind the peace process takes a back seat to that struggle . for americans ( and others as well as some who believe that the arab world is thinking about nothing but the palestinian cause , the events this spring in north africa , the arabian peninsula , and even the levant should have convinced them otherwise . it is far too soon to judge the historic effect of the arab spring , but if there is one conclusion that can be drawn today , it is that israel and its palestinian neighbors had little that they thought about .
london – vulnerable communities face the brunt of climate change , from rising sea levels and extreme weather events to prolonged severe drought and flooding . according to the world bank , in the absence of effective mitigation measures , climate change could push more than 100 million people out of poverty by 2030 . in emerging economies , small and medium-size enterprises account for as much as 45 % of employment and up to 33 % of gdp , and these figures are considerably higher when informal smes are included . to help the most vulnerable communities become more resilient to the effects of climate change , financial institutions should spur small , medium-size firms to support small , medium-size firms . when an sme builds its own climate resilience , it can have cascading environmental effects around it .
professor claudia kemfert of the german institute for economic research ( diw ) argues that spending $ 14 billion to cut methane would generate benefits , from reducing warming , between 1.4 and three times higher . and , because methane is a far shorter-lived gas than co2 , we can prevent some of the worst of the worst short-term warming through its mitigation . at the same time , we could put an even larger focus on cutting black carbon , treated as responsible for as much as 40 % of current net warming and one-third of the arctic melting . agricultural production accounts for half of anthropogenic methane , but housing-market systems , the landfills , and coal mining also create gas . cutting methane is , in effect , a cheaper species than cutting carbon .
it never had to deal with others as equals , in contrast to the traditional european powers that have done so for several centuries . today , too , it is not america ’s military strength that is at risk or challenge china , but rather its enduring attraction of “ the american dream . ” china ’s challenge , however , may turn out to be more difficult . it not only must live with the realities of america ’s power ; it must also take into consideration the american ideal . in 1989 , large numbers of chinese students took over tiananmen square to demand more rights , embrace a symbol resembling a sculpture of freedom .
a stronger , more unified europe , the argument goes , might then rival the u.s. and china in most domains – including , with “ weaponizing ” its economic resources to further its geostrategic objectives . by bolstering its strategic sovereignty claims , therefore , europe could make such a g3 world a reality . yet europe ’s leaders , tempted by the prospect of the g20 , must address two related concerns . first , it remains unclear how the eu will achieve the necessary level of integration , when the majority of the bloc ’s important decisions still require unanimity among its member states . but , collectively , the eu ’s member states , even without the united kingdom , would constitute a power of similar proportions .
this , after all , is how the us administration handled trade with canada and mexico . at the same time , trump has temporarily exempted the two countries from tariffs , but now expects concessions from them in his administration ’s renegotiation of the north american free trade agreement ( nafta ) . regulatory divergences are a far more important constraint on us-european trade than tariffs . in fact , both countries maintain relatively open economies with stronger protections in specific industries . whereas the us has persistently low tariff protection than europe , the gap is minor ( europe ’s unweighted customs obligation averages 5.2 % , versus 3.5 % for the us ) .
how can a commercial firm not only deny me the right to know my own gene profile unless i also pay their royalties for a diagnostic test that might be fair , but also to avert any other firm from offering me a similar test , unless those firms are paying it out a license fee ? we do not have to believe in genetic determinism to find that argument compelling . do n’t i do n’t have the rights of multiple sources of control over my own body ? proprietary rights for commercial firms over the most basic element of individual ’s genetic identity should not be enforceable . do n’t it ever have the rights to own ” ” body in the us ?
instead , they argued , we should “ “ end the demand for paid sex ” demands in the name of paying sex ” – but without explaining how this should be done . in species that reproduce sexually , there is , for obvious reasons , one of the strongest and most pervasive desires . humans are no exception in this respect . for that reason , the global alliance ’s international secretariat against the traffic of women applauded amnesty international for supporting decriminalization . there was also opposition from some feminist organizations , which accused an amnesty of protecting “ pimps ” rights and johns .
propelled by demand and outsourcing from the advanced economies , emerging markets won a growing share of soaring merchandise trade ; by 2014 , they accounted for more than half of all global trade flows . since the great recession , however , growth in global merchandise trade has stalled , owing largely to anemic demand in the world ’s major economies and plummeting commodity prices . but deeper structural changes also have a role to play , too . in order to create many goods , automation means that there is no reliance on production locations and outsourcing decisions no longer depend mainly on labor costs . in fact , a growing number of companies are simplifying and shoring up their supply chains .
what it does not seem to recognize is that america ’s deteriorating ties with russia – a key conduit for america ’s military delivery to afghanistan – could undercut its basing strategy . nevertheless , there is strong bipartisan support in the us for retaining military bases in afghanistan , just as a vehicle for projecting hard power and an increasingly charged confrontation between america and russia over ukraine has boosted iran ’s support considerably . in fact , former us secretary of state condoleezza rice explicitly linked russia ’s actions in ukraine with “ talking about withdrawal from afghanistan , ” whether security situation warrants it or not . according to rice , anything less than a residual force of 10,000 american troops sends the message that america is no serious about helping to stabilize afghanistan – a message that would embolden russian president vladimir putin further . evidently , america believes that a sustained military presence in afghanistan is in its interests .
understandably , the polish government has so far paralyzed the court , undermining the rule of law in poland . vowing about what to come , poland ’s foreign minister , witold waszczykowski , told the tabloid superekspres following a summit that the eu was pursuing “ a double standard policy and deceptions . ” such infantile ploys have become all too characteristic of the pis ’s government , which has also refused to publish polish constitutional tribunal rulings , as if that makes them legally non-binding . in fact , polish prime minister beata szydło has already launched that strategy , by refusing to sign off on the summit ’s formal record , as if that will render the outcome inconsequential to poland . according to waszczykowski , poland , not only must “ reduce [ its ] level of trust in the eu , ” but “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ must also engage in error , ” by blocking other initiatives or playing an extremely aggressive game . ”
we tap that solar power in many fundamental ways – food production , wind power , hydroelectric power , solar heating , solar-thermal electricity , solar panels , but the possibilities for greatly increased use of inexpensive , high-grade , and environmentally friendly solar power – are vast . this will require massive investment in new technology and resources , not the “ fight to capture ” over middle eastern oil . important energy technologies will include the conversion of coal to liquids ( as in gasoline ) , use of tar sands and oil shale gas , and the growth of non-fossil-fuel energy sources . indeed , there is excellent potential for low-cost solar electricity , zero-emitting coal-based technologies , and safe and reliable nuclear power . solar radiation equals about 10,000 times the us current use of energy .
new york – in the 1950 ’s , asia conjured up images of poverty and starvation . there was a brief political infatuation among some westerners in the 1960s with nehru jackets and the maoist revolution , but that was a brief step . by the late century , japan ’s spectacular performance not only made the japanese wealthy , but also strengthened the country ’s soft power . on one hand , in the 1950 ’s , asia conjured up images of poverty and starvation . as jan lennon sang in 1968 , “ if you go off to carrying out pictures of chairman mao , you would make it with anyone anyhow . ”
for example , the proposed budget slashes funding for cross-border infrastructure projects , including the extension of high-speed broadband networks into rural areas , and the development of transportation and energy infrastructure . but the eu can add significant value to the coordination of supranational infrastructure projects , thereby achieving economies of scale and avoiding a duplicity of national expenditures . likewise , to lay the foundations for future economic growth , the eu should nurture new , sustainable industries , and innovative small and medium-size companies – not to cut funding for important research programs like the eu ’s “ horizon ” rate . europeans would benefit directly through improved internet access , lower costs for energy , and greater efficient transport links . but , with firewalls austerity under fire and eu countries looking to spur spending cuts , the council should also consider the shape of budget , ensuring that the mff does not impede future growth and investment .
warsaw – back in 1997 , denmark , a nation whose people are demonstrably committed to human rights , asked the united nations human rights commission in geneva to look into the ccp ’s long track record of abuse . china responded by canceling a danish trade mission to the european union . france got the message , and the french soon stopped promoting human-rights resolutions directed toward china . in the wake of the sichuan earthquake of july , criticism of china will become even scarcer . the french were then rewarded with a string of lucrative contracts in china .
in the sdg framework , discrete gender and health issues are intertwined , because gender itself is a major driver of health outcomes . in the sdg framework , discrete gender issues and health are intertwined , because gender itself is a major driver of health outcomes . gender can influence whether one smokes tobacco , exercises regular , or has access to nutritious food . it encompasses research initiatives and global public goods like vaccines , as well as emergency-preparedness programs on epidemic outbreaks . yet it brings people together to work toward providing universal health coverage and ensuring everyone ’s right to health .
for example , studies of us tribunals with multiple justices show that male judges are more willing to hear cases of bias when one woman stands on the bench and substantially more willing when she is added by a second woman . still , simply the presence of a plurality of women has an impact . “ each of us , ” remarked sandra day o’connor , the first female member of america ’s supreme court , who is renowned for not wanting to be perceived as a “ female ” justice , “ bring to our job , whatever that is , our lifetime of experience and our values . ” in other words , in any institution , women bring fresh perspectives , heard clearly only when a critical mass of them is present . consider a female ’s perspective on conflict .
but choosing action for the greater good does not absolve us from moral culpability . in the end , an adviser to authoritarian leaders can not escape the dilemma . the philosopher michael walzer puts it well : “ it ’s easy to get one ’s hands dirty in politics . ” he immediately adds , but this getting one ’s hands dirty in this way is “ often the right thing to do . ” our hands can become dirty when we help a terrorist or a dictator .
but by 1991 , it had been 800,000 yemenis expelled , because they were perceived as a domestic security threat in the run-up to the first gulf war . since then , yemeni labor has been barred from saudi arabia . embittered and unemployed , a youthful yemeni youth are often becoming subject to another saudi policy gone awry – its propagation to export of the sunni wahhabi mold of islam . yet yemen , too , has engaged in its own highly destructive policies . with new wahhabi madrasas poke poke everywhere in yemen due to saudi financial support , little wonder that the number of yemeni jihadis has grown exponentially .
irrespective , honjo and its colleagues have identified another protein with a similar function . these fundamental studies have now led the way in developing new , powerful immunotherapies , which are effective against cancer , in addition to medical success . but there is much to be learned by the immunotherapy revolution that continues to be in its infancy . for some patients with certain cancers , immunotherapy has been revolutionary , enabling humans who have been on the verge of death to live healthy lives with no detectable foottraces of disease . still , the immunotherapy revolution remains stuck in its infancy .
but this has followed this top-down approach on the macro level , and for problems elsewhere in the economy without examining itself . the only way to evolve is by adapting to new environmental pressures , and now silicon valley , owing in large part to its own behavior , faces plenty of it . the good news is that , if any location proved that it could innovate , it is in silicon valley . silicon valley ’s citizens need to start applying their prowess to innovation , and to their pride in “ breaking things ” ” ” to themselves . unless the transition occurs , it will be overtaken by them .
for starters , we have trained farmers how to improve their soils by expanding legume crops , residues of which can be made as goat fodder . recognizing these practices ’ advantages , farmers have immediately started rising crop density , applying manure payments and rotating crops in order to boost yields and produce more feed for healthier goats . establishing a structured , well-functioning goat market helps to create a positive feedback loop . here , too , it is the platform for innovation that is helpful . if farmers are confident that their goats can not be farmed and can sell them at a decent price , they are better able to invest to improve their production system .
in the early nineteenth century , us wages stagnated for nearly 50 years , before being tossed around again . that may have been an extreme situation in the short term . for lower-skilled workers , however , the transition underway today could prove only as wrenching . with fears of increased inequality already mounting , governments will need to rethink policies for providing income and job-transition support to displaced workers . looking ahead , policymakers and businesses should keep the five imperatives of taking a hard line .
this is , in large part , a matter of thinking , rather than of means . fortunately , mindsets are starting to shift . at the 2016 au summit in kigali , african leaders recognized that , despite the au ’s achievements , it remained under-resourced and inefficient , operating below potential , and performed below many decisions . to reinvigorate the au , they tasked rwandan president paul kagame with leading a process in which all were deeply involved . less than three years later , a package of reform recommendations produced by kagame and the pan-african committee of experts that he appointed – through an inclusive consultative process – are in place .
suppose ilan goldfajn , brazil ’s star central banker , issues bond in new york , and uses dollar proceeds to enlarge the country ’s ’s international reserves . at best , market participants would applaud the decision ; at worst , they would be indifferent , because brazil ’s net debt position will not change . both countries have floating exchange rates , which means that their central banks are not supposed to intervene in currency markets by buying and selling reserves . more fundamentally , why do we think of reserves differently than we think of other assets on national balance sheets ? now suppose that one of argentina ’s private agricultural exporters also issues an international bond , and uses dollars to enlarge one of its modern , highly competitive dairy plant to sell more powdered milk to asia .
while other countries are embracing robust digital strategies , america is falling behind . in india , for example , prime minister narendra modi is implementing a strategy that is transforming india into a tech powerhouse , setting the stage for a digital future . in france , the government has invested in an expansive domestic digital plan that is expected to create 1.1 million jobs over the next 3-5 years , and contribute $ 101 billion to gdp over the next decade . in india , for example , prime minister narendra modi is implementing a strategy that reshaping india into a technology powerhouse , setting the stage for a digital future . the consequences are already beginning to show : according to bloomberg innovation index 2016 , america is now the world ’s eighth most innovative country , having dropped two spots since 2015 .
in georgia , for example , political parties that comprise at least 30 % of each individual gender on their electoral paper receive a 30 % supplement from the state budget . beyond funding constraints , women face high social and cultural barriers to political participation . likewise , in ireland , the share of parties in politics is losing 50 % of their state-level funding when their candidate pool comprises less than 30 % of either gender . more care obligations , in particular , have strengthened public perceptions of a “ woman ’s ” role , ” ” ” ” ” severely undermine women ’s capacity to run for public office . fortunately , there are also introducing innovative action to address this problem .
by all accounts , iran is a society deeply divided between those who want their country to be a respected member of the international community , and those for whom iran ’s international standing is better served through a nuclear-weapons program . the us-led international sanctions against iran would seem to have helped the latter rather than the former . that might well be true when iran was a full-throated democracy , genuinely accountable to the will of the people . moreover , as is often the case , the sanctions may have done more to decimate the middle class , further weakening the least powerful than motivate iran ’s leaders to seek an agreement . but there is scant evidence to suggest that the sanctions did anything to slow iran ’s nuclear program .
one hopes that the paris agreement will change that . as with the information technology revolution , advances in clean energy will require engagement by both the public and the private sector . long term , patient finance also needs to be empowered to help societies minimize uncertainty and bridge the so-called death valley between basic research and commercialization . bec ’s argument is correct in arguing that the “ new model ” will be a public-private partnership among governments , research institutes , and investors ” – shines a welcome spotlight on the relationship . because we can not yet know which innovations will be the most important in decarbonizing the economy , investment needs to be allocated to a broad array of choices .
but those challenges will not be addressed , and opportunities will not be realized unless children everywhere have the skills they need . for these reasons , my home country , senegal , has long been committed to giving away its children , particularly girls and those from disadvantaged backgrounds , educational quality . in 2017 , we invested 25 % of our domestic budgets on this front , representing close to 7 % of gdp , in educating our children and young people . moreover , we plan to provide up to 90 % of funding for a new program to improve senegal ’s education system . even so , senegal is struggling to meet all of the costs of strengthening its education system .
the goal must be to boost european security integration ( in its broadest sense ) , lifting europeans to the forefront of global security . as eu member states advance along that path , forging ahead with technological and operational excellence and innovation , they will find avenues to eliminate wasteful spending and to optimize the use of resource wealth . europe ’s defense industry will fail to make headway without a well-functioning market – open , transparent , and equal opportunities for all of europe ’s suppliers . advances in defense industry give rise to important positive externalities , as well as investment in research and development – fundamental to growth , innovation , and future competitiveness . a critical component in coordinating and well functioning european security and defense policy is the european defense agency .
it should not be hard to spur countries to take action to protect their shark populations , given that shark ’s economic value plummets plummets when killing is killing . a study by the united states australian marine institute found that palau ’s shark-diving industry was worth far more than its shark-fishing industry . for example , china banned shark-fin soup , the traditional delicacy , at official government dinners and functions , a move that contributed less than 30 % of shark-fin sales from last december to april . a single reef shark that frequents major dive sites in palau is worth about $ 179,000 annually , or about $ 1.9 million over its lifetime ; the same shark would be worth some $ 108 dead . in the south city of guangzhou , at the very least , centers for china ’s shark-diving industry trade , vendors reported a 82 % drop in sales over the past two years .
tudjman 's pretext was that croatia needed to concentrate power for its struggle with serbian aggression . the truth is that he had used the negotiated hostility with slobodan milosevic to solidify personal rule and russian-style plunder of state properties by his coterie of polish loyalists . to accomplish this with the minimal fuss , he muzzled the press and electronic media . despite hostility between serbia and kosovo , dealing a dictator to a dictator with milosevic was straightforward . because both tudjman and milosevic believed in ethnically homogeneous states , they fomented forced population transfers ( ie , ethnic cleansing ) , as well as partition between one another .
under the basic law , the ballot committee should be “ broadly representative of the ” – a provision that the committee ’s current composition violates . under the basic law , the voting committee should be “ broadly representative ” – a provision that the committee ’s current composition violates . its membership chooses to account for only 7 % of hong kong ’s total electorate , and its voting procedures are seeking to avoid the nomination of either candidate who can harbor democratic sympathies . the current proposed arrangements would enable the chinese government to veto any candidate that it did n’t like , prompting criticism that what is on offer is an iranian-style election : “ “ you can vote for any one that we elect . ” hong kong ’s government could call for changes to increase the pattern of openness and fairness that the chief executive is chosen , without abandoning its current pattern in favor of universal suffrage .
in promoting democracy , liberals reject the argument used by today ’s rulers that free elections would last june , because islamists would win , and establish theocratic regimes . january ’s palestinian elections were won by a comparatively moderate leader , following having run ahead by the ruling fatah movement , and islamists boycotted the election . reformers insist that the vast majority promote a moderate solution , or at least that radical islamist groups would have to become pragmatic to compete for power and govern . that case , far from being proven , is far from proven . but in gaza strip local elections soon a afterward , the radical islamists who claimed terrorism won seven of the ten arab municipal councils .
increasingly , the industry is implementing approaches that have ensured success in other sectors , such as falling procurement costs and deploying lean principles in manufacturing . as clean-tech firms continue to scale up , additional opportunities will emerge to improve . a shakeout in clean tech industry has been hard ; but it has also been characterized by emerging technologies and , by weeding out the fragile players , transformed the sector into a more robust one . this is the state of the global segment , which is emerging as a rising global necessity . there is little room to doubt that the clean-tech sector can expect plenty of sunshine days ahead .
princeton – the economic gloom that envelops the world in 2008 has led many to wonder whether the evident prosperity that preceded it was real . what we do know is that in countries as diverse as china , india , russia , and the united states , the number of billionaires has soared . more generally , the top 1 % of the us population prospered . but the gap between the rich and the poor and the poor , and at least in america ’s , incomes in the poor and middle class stagnated.ampnbsp ; no wonder that many are now skeptical of taxpayer-financed schemes to bail out banks , insurance corporations , and even automakers . no wonder that many are now skeptical of taxpayer-financed schemes to bail out banks , insurance corporations , and even automakers .
their central objectives include enabling companies and organizations to set sustainability targets and core performance indicators ; monitoring , preparing , and disclose comparative data that measure their economic and esg performance ; and integrating sustainable production and consumption practices in company business strategies and model models . given the magnitude of the task , but also the importance of ensuring effective coordination and harmonization of these efforts with relevant standard-setters , corporate regulators , and professional organizations . on one hand , american securities and exchange commission is already discussing these issues , because it analyzes options with respect to investor response and business needs regarding esg . more recently , mark carney , the governor of the bank of england and the chairman of the g20 ’s center for financial stability board , and michael bloomberg , former new york city mayor and ceo of bloomberg ’s larry summers , have issued a announcement on market data on climate data . in particular , global awareness of the topic is growing .
this month ’s g20 summit and the united nations conference on sustainable development in rio de janeiro are pivotal opportunities to establish a more holistic international approach to global economic recovery and sustainable development . but the outcomes the world needs – viable financing options and frameworks to support economic transformation , as well as integrated environmental and sustainable-development governance – can not be achieved without political will . in particular , small landholders need new tools that enable them to boost productivity while establishing more sustainable methods of production . the pursuit of a thriving , inclusive economies must join the effort to address climate change and achieve universal food security . los cabos ’s success will depend on g-20 leaders ’ ability to galvanize the same level of collective , concerted action that enabled them to curb global recession in the aftermath of the 2008 financial crisis .
new york – global financial markets in 2008 experienced their worst crisis since the great depression of the 1930 ’s . major financial institutions went bust ; the others were bought off on cheap or survived only after the major bailouts . global stock markets dropped by more than 50 % ; interest-rate spreads skyrocket ; a severe liquidity and credit crunch emerged ; and a number of emerging-market economies staggered by lending as part of an international monetary fund . so which lies ahead in march 2009 ? is the worst behind the us , or lies ahead ?
the good news is n’t news ; media executives often mutter , too . and , of course , we tend to remember these horrible images much longer . add to that the second psychological bias neuroscientists being discussion : since our species evolved to fend off danger , we tend to be more susceptible to bad news . we have responded better to pictures of starving children than to news of improved nutrition levels in africa . and it takes just a minute on twitter or cable news to confirm the old adage : “ if it bleeds , it leads . ”
insightful bloggers attract vastly more clicks than do official mouthpieces . this thirst for unbiased information highlights the dramatic change that the internet has brought to china ’s political landscape . china ’s government apparently began to appreciate the constraints of both cover-ups and stonewalling , and perhaps also the merits of allowing some room for free speech . nowadays , governance no longer monopolizes information , and the right to process it . a “ virtual civil society ” is at the making of this argument .
new york – countries often devote public money to promoting exports of their own goods and services . but devoting resources to promoting imports , as china does with its inaugural international import expo , which just opened in shanghai , is truly rare . if expo succeeds in boosting imports , one might expect that he will reduce china ’s trade surplus . but that need not be the case . an annualized imports expo to be part of china ’s overall import-promotion strategy has attracted thousands of companies worldwide with the promise of major orders from chinese firms , including state-owned enterprises ( soes ) that the government tasked with making the expo agreement .
london – the historian norman stone , who dropped in june , invariably insisted on the idea of history students learn inside languages . in fact , language gives access to a people ’s culture , and culture to its history . its history tells us once again about the way that it sees itself and others . it is the key to understanding the past , as well as the future of international relations , of course . it is the key to understanding the past , as well as the future of international relations .
the first nagging question is this : will elections in fact come next january ? prime minister iyad allawi assures a world in which there will be , and president bush echoes his word . while that scenario is straightforward , the reality is not . more neutral observers – and , indeed , daily news bulletins at bombings and hostage take and “ insurgent ” – cast doubt on that prospect . the probability of an iraqi election being held that coming january will have to be less than 50 % , and the us may be certain that these will not be free and fair across much of the country .
atlanta – as the united states marks the first anniversary of us president donald trump ’s election , the question of how trump won still commands attention , with russia ’s role increasingly moving toward the center stage . each new revelation in investigating russia ’s meddling in the 2016 campaign brings the vulnerability of america ’s democratic process into sharper focus . last week , the us congress unveiled legislation barring facebook , google , and other social-media giants from publishing who had purchased online ads , thereby disclosing the loopholes that russia exploited in the run-up to the election . but making amends via technical fixes and public-spirited offers to better corporate citizens will solve only the most publicized problem . a tougher challenge will be enhanced by the institutions that are vitally important to how democracy functions – in particular , civics education , and local journalism .
in america ’s presidential campaign , the protection of trade is fashionable again , again . but , while import restrictions may ease the pain of some manufacturing districts , they wo n’t prevent companies from relocating where growth opportunities were the strongest possible . nor will they protect workers from technological change in the us . and they wo n’t recreate the yesterday ’s developmental patterns . still , when the ends are clear , politicians often are clueless about the means .
when it comes to producing terrorists and undocumented migrants , two critical issues for europe – arab military dictators – have an inglorious record at home . algeria in the 1990 ’s is an effective reminder of this , with western governments refusing to challenge the vicious cycle of repressive autocrats producing violent theocrats and refugees to relaunch . a move by military officers in tripoli against qaddafi and his sons might end the conflict , with military commanders gaining credits and political capital . but four decades of labor-intensive dictatorship may be enough for libyans , most of whom have never really benefited from their countries ’ wealth or potential . getting “ stuck in transition ” is the third potential scenario , with libya remaining in the “ gray zone ” neither fully-fledged democracy nor a dictatorship , but a semi-freedom .
second , the court staff was entirely muslim , implying that testimony was viewed entirely from a muslim perspective . third , whereas muslims were able to testify against anyone , christians , and jews were able to testify only another non-muslim . but , of course , if they were engaged in a case against a muslim , whom they had to be handled in an islamic court . when a muslim and non-muslim faced with one another in a trial , muslims enjoyed significant perks . first , judges ’ training predisposed them to give the advantage of any doubt to fellow muslims .
the first principle is reciprocity , which implies that if israel had the right to attack the osirak reactor , then iraq had a right to bomb an israeli nuclear facility at dimona . some argue that the real point is the risk of attack and destruction , which might emerge if weapons of mass destruction are deployed . they employ something akin to a cost/benefit analysis , based on a subjective sense of danger . but there is no way of making an objective assessment of fear , and even if that could be done , employing cost/benefit analysis to invade another country ’s territory would wreak havoc with the global system of national sovereignty and international law . the better way out of a certain sense of self-defense is to invoke two principles that underlie legal claims of justification in both domestic and international law .
most economies are also becoming less equitable , with widening gaps between the world ’s rich and poor . and violent conflict remains widespread , with the world ’s poorest regions the most vulnerable to outbreaks . with those challenges in mind , world leaders agreed at the rio +20 summit last year to adopt sustainable development goals ( sdgs ) . the world ’s governments asked the un secretary-general to coordinate the drafting of these goals by the sdgs in 2015 to ensure a seamless transition away from the millennium development goals ( mdgs ) that year . a pivotal meeting of the un general assembly will take place in late september for that purpose .
an argentine , jordanian , or spaniard who can visualize and create a thriving global demand for a product or service , just as spain ’s amancio ortega did with zara ’s , is just as much an entrepreneur as the next bill gates is . today , starbucks employs roughly 182,000 people globally – just 50,000 more than facebook , google , amazon , and apple combined . from lahore to lagos , mexico city to mumbai , governments look to their own populations as pools of talents waiting to be tapped . they should encourage and encourage job creators and problem solvers , and turn development aid into investments . the time has come for diplomats to do the same .
while both the polish and hungarian communist parties experienced internal liberalization that allowed relatively large , semi-official zones of activity outside communist control , slovakia after soviet-led prime minister vladimir meciar became a rigid , neo-stalinist regime . political developments in slovakia over the past 20 years of communism set up the czech republic and slovakia in isolation from both poland and hungary . the situation of the political right in any central european country has also been influenced by experiences rooted in history and tradition . although it is true that politicians often describe themselves as an “ rightist , ” '' their real policies , such as that of former slovak prime minister vladimir meciar , are in fact demagogic populist or authoritarian . when left-wing communist regimes collapsed in 1989 , the communist parties of poland and hungary transformed themselves into credible democratic-left parties that became formidable opponents of the newly emerging political right .
the eu ’s maastricht treaty has specifically reserves this tax-and-transfer authority to its member states , a reflection of europeans ’ unwillingness to transfer funds to other ’ peoples in ways that the american people are willing to provide them among people in separate states . a third crucial difference is that all of america ’s states require by their constitutions to balance their annual operating budgets . while the “ rainy day ” funds that are accumulating in boom years are used to deal with temporary income shortfalls , states ’ collective obligation of borrowing is confined to capital projects like roads and schools . these limits on state-level budget deficits are the logical implication that america ’s states can not create money to fill the fiscal gap . even a state like california , seen by many as the poster child for fiscal profligacy , now has an annual budget deficit of only 1 % of its gdp and generalized debt of just 4 % of gdp .
i have no doubt that , sometime later this century , one can just as easily purchase grocery professors – perhaps with holographic images – just as one could buy my pockets kasparov – just as one can buy the high-flying kasparov chess computer today . yet a huge body of evidence suggests that technological change was a much bigger driver in global wage patterns than in trade . to be sure , i do n’t feel safe , as an economics mit economist once did ! yet , the huge body of evidence suggests that technological change was a much bigger driver in global wage patterns than in trade . certainly , i do n’t feel safe right as an economics professor !
so , is trade globalization , on balance , better or worse ? some empirical studies of cross-country data find net beneficial effects on environmental degradation indicators like local sulfur-dioxide pollution . provided that countries have effective governance institutions at the national level , business and growth gives them the means to clear their air . when trade reaches costs , it may benefit environmental goods just as much as they benefit other goods . specialization in each country enables people to derive more of what they want , which , particularly at higher income levels , includes cleaner air and water .
tokyo – during the cold war , the term “ kremlinology ” refers to efforts to comprehend what went about the soviet union ’s commanding heights of the soviet union – indeed , beyond the entire iron curtain . kremlinologists monitored ( in any form possible ) who was up , and who was down among the core soviet-era leadership . consider what happened , on december 17 , on december 17 . great significance was read to who signed an official paper , or who stood where lenin ’s tomb in red square , when revising military parades . all of that was grammar-school stuff , compared to efforts to decode the regime in north korea , where the truth is far more opaque .
so , what should the latin american economies be doing ? they surely have a right to defend them , whether through foreign-exchange intervention and consequent accumulation of reserves ( a potentially profitable option when capital inflows are de facto temporary ) , impose capital controls or other currency-related macro-prudential policies aimed at countercyclical exchange-rate smoothing . in a dire , last-ditch effort , the imf is now inventing “ spill-over reports ” for a few systemically important economies , to be conducted at the margins of its country ( article iv ) consultations . this initiative is destined to fail – as has the imf ’s multilateral surveillance exercise , or g20 peer reviews in recent past . even if massive spillovers are unambiguously recognized , it is hard to see how this exercises would solve a fundamental problem behind a currency war : major players ’ perceived unwillingness to reconcile vastly different national interests .
countries were being warned : avoid the trade deficits and build up reserves , on the grounds that they are the key frontline defenses . east asian countries were followed by that advice , and for a good cause : they saw the consequences of a shortage of reserves . if china let its currency float back then , it would depreciate in value , deepening the crisis . east asian governments then knew that the imf ’s policies would deepen their downturns , but they were powerless to resist . the imf had the money they needed , so that it would be willing to maintain .
welfare-to-work schemes in michigan and wisconsin have served as a model for federal welfare reform under president bill clinton , and obamacare relies on massachusetts ’s health-care system , introduced under republican governor mitt romney . more recently , some states have introduced cap-and-trade systems to put a price on carbon , with many now on track to meet obama ’s clean power plan targets . in fact , half of all us states have now legalized marijuana sales in some form , with just eight embracing full-fledged legalization . indeed , half of all us states now legalized marijuana in some form , with just eight embracing full-fledged legalization . likewise , from 2000 to 2014 by enacting a variety of energy policies – from broad climate action plans to mandated renewable-energy standards – the us under 33 states are cutting their carbon-dioxide emissions , while expanding their economies .
cambridge – “ i want to be a part of it , new york , new york , the ” ” ” frank sinatra of a town that had attracted so many of the world ’s most ambitious appointees , from artists and performers to businesspeople and bankers . in other words , the larger city , the higher the average salary , productivity levels , number of patents per person , the crime rate , anxiety prevalence , and the incidence of hiv . in a sense , this is not a hard phenomenon to explain ; metropolises like new york city , with its highly multicultural populations , multinational corporations , and multitude of talented individuals are rife with opportunity . but the impact of big cities is driving deeper than economic or even cultural power ; cities can fundamentally transform people ’s lives – and even the people themselves . in 2010 , geoffrey west , together with a team of researchers , discovered that several socioeconomic measures – both positive and negative – increase with the size of local populations .
at a time when american nuclear-reactor purchases – made possible by the historic deal negotiated by the bush administration – were held up by us insistence on exemptions from supplier responsibility in the event of accident , some regard india ’s spurts of us aircraft as an gratuitous rejection of an opportunity to demonstrate that friendship with india had saved america , too . opposing it are the unambiguous advantages of pleasing a major new ally and developing a pattern of bilateral military cooperation on the supply side , training , and operations that it has so far developed . as if all of this were not enough to make decisions against america , clincher might well have been india ’s desire to evade any further procurement controversy at a time when allegations of corruption had been beset by all sides . a decision made on technical grounds , many felt , would have been easier to block defense than one based on policy considerations . ( an eventual winner of the bid is likely to enter into a joint-production arrangement with india that american companies would not have done . )
institutions like the royal bank of scotland , which for a time in 2009 headed a list of the world ’s largest international banks , are pruned by the eu ’s directorate general for competition . in most cases , this implies that they will continue to cut back on lending , worsening the impact of a financial crisis on the rest of the economy . meanwhile , even stronger banks are being pressed to increase their equity reserves . in the case of switzerland ’s banks requiring state rescues , european competition rules require divestment and downsizing . as a result , big transnational institutions are lobbying hard on a pan-european approach to banking supervision and regulation ( and implicitly for the fiscal bailouts should have failed ) .
the stakes are rising in kim and trump ’s play of chicken . north korea immediately did just that , threatening to carry out an “ enveloping ” ” ” hit american territory by guam . and , indeed , like this exchange of rhetorical fire , supposedly america was preparing revised military options for striking north korea . even more ominous , according to a confidential american service report , north korea has just gotten its prowess to miniaturize nuclear warheads , potentially having as many as 60 bombs . trump has shot back that america ’s military is “ locked and loaded . ”
two conclusions can be drawn from all this . the first is that we all owe at least some of our success to others , given the public goods that society provides . this calls for more modesty and restraint in determining maximum pay , not for moral reasons but for the sustainability of the system . the second conclusion is that the most privileged classes that benefited the most from the " solidarity " of others , notably the poor , can no longer deny the latter ’s contributions . but do n’t hold your breath wait for it to be agreed upon .
they understood that unemployment would rise if the country ’s monetary policy were set by a central bank that focused single-mindedly on core inflation ( as well as insufficient attention to financial stability ) . after all , it is extraordinarily inconvenient to have in greece an administration that is so opposed to the types of policies that did so much to increase inequality in so many advanced countries , and that are so committed to curbing the unbridled power of the wealth they hold . the economy would suffer because the economic model underlying europe was predicated on the power relationships that disadvantaged workers . when sweden ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s did , its swedes said no . and , surely enough , what we are now seeing , 16 years after the eurozone institutionalized those relations were democracy ’s antithesis : many european leaders want to see the end of prime minister alexis tsipras ’s leftist government .
durham – earlier this year , islamist politics faced heavy setbacks in two major predominantly muslim countries : egypt and turkey . just one year after the muslim brotherhood ’s mohamed morsi became egypt ’s first-ever freely elected president , millions of egyptians took to the streets , triggering the military coup that ousted him . morsi ’s political incompetence and lack of vision in the face of economic collapse would have been enough to diminish his rule ’s support for his government . but his rejection of pluralism and the pursuit of an islamic dictatorship , exemplified in his effort to centralize power in the hands of the brethren , and place himself beyond reexamination of egypt ’s judiciary , has proved his denunciation . but it is too soon to write political islam off as a capable participant , even a leading force , in a pluralist democracy .
on may 19 , a team of korean researchers , published in journal research findings that for the first time isolated human embryonic stem cell lines explicitly tailored to match the dna between male and female patients of various ages , were the first to play out . this carries excellent promise , especially to the sufferers of spinal cord harm and disease . the next day , british researchers at newcastle university announced that they were successful in producing a cloned human embryo that uses donated eggs and genetic material from stem cells . embryonic stem cells are “ pluripotent , ” implying that they have the capacity to develop into any kind of human tissue . both breakthroughs constitute a stunning advance in using stem cell research as a last time .
this includes ramping up the tradable-permit program by lowering the threshold , beyond which firms must pay and eliminating exemptions from permits for firms or industries . last but not least , china can lower government spending ( in the medium term ) by streamlining its vast administrative hierarchy . in recent decades , many of the world ’s largest corporations have taken advantage of new technologies to reduce worker layers of power , from top executives to factory workers to lowering costs and undermining efficiency . such actions would not only spur fiscal sustainability – the additional income could total 2 % of gdp , but also improve the efficiency of overall resource allocation . by contrast , china ’s government retained an equal six-layer administrative structure – beginning with the central government and moving down through provinces , prefectures , counties , township , and villages – from forming the people ’s republic 70 years ago .
when one pole of nuclear deterrence weakened , owing to russia ’s ’s political decline in the 1990 ’s , nato , the defensive union of democratic and peaceful states committed aggression against yugoslavia . now that russia has revived an capability , such a move would have been unthinkable . nuclear deterrence – the threat of killing off hundreds of thousands or millions of people – is an idea that does not fit into traditional morality . indeed , the risks in a world without nuclear weapons are tremendous . yet it has functioned , preventing catastrophic wars , while making people more civilized and cautious .
the infectious prion then hijacks the body ’s machinery , reprogramming it into a willing prion replication of the innocuous state . as that tragedy unfolded , however , it was because scientists acquired a more appreciation of the disease . the prion gene is provided by the infected individuals , in whom it resides in the innocuous state . prion then hijacks the body ’s machinery , reprogramming it into a willing prion replication of prion replication . prion gene seems to contradict all of the conventional wisdom , to survive pressure-cooking , irradiation , and even incineration at 340 ° c in less than four hours .
daniel barenboim is rumored to have left the chicago symphony orchestra partly because he objected to the fundraising demands of his cause . some conductors , not want to carry the tin cup as they wave their batons , have dismissed important posts in america for precisely this reason , feeling that it will interfere with their art . the same thing , fearful , will happen in europe . but american experience shows that getting artistic leaders like orchestra musical directors to engage in fundraising need not be bad for the artistic side of job . performing arts advocates in europe point to an american where , among other things , the music directors of even major orchestras one are now expected to participate fully in fundraising operations , and to be active in the local community on orchestras a name .
we should not forswear this option ; but we ought to consider others , not least because the security council – whose backing will be politically if not legally crucial – may never support an invasion . likewise , the council could declare that any fresh aggression or any use , threats or transfer of wmd would trigger saddam ’s removal and his pursuit as an international criminal act like slobodan milosevic . it would be strange to uphold the council ’s authority by means of not regaining its approval . the council would be more likely to accept the option of mounting a punitive air-strikes program – going well beyond what was done in 1998 – on suspected wmd sites , presidential compounds , the republican guard , and other armed-force targets . this would hurt and weaken saddam , establishing unmistakably the message that defiance of the un carries severe sanctions .
this time around , dr. ahmed , his iraqi counterpart , realized that the game was up . some of the inspectors that he knew well , grined with them on collegial terms during visits to vienna . that he would lie to them so brazenly were incomprehensible to his friends on a check team . soon thereafter , un inspectors returned to tarmiya . this time , they knew exactly what the enormous magnets for : producing arms grade nuclear material .
but china ’s dizzying rise also dispelled three leading myths about the impact of economic growth . the first is that rising growth reduces inequality , while increasing happiness . in 1955 , the economist simon kuznets hypothesized that income inequality rises sharply , and then decline – in the pattern of inverted “ inverted ” u s or bell , as countries underwent their economic development . after all , china is now one of the world ’s most unequal countries . given the pace of china ’s economic growth since 1978 , its experience rectes that claim more powerfully than any one case .
pakistan held free and fair elections in 2002 and 2007 , and is gearing up to hold another , at the end of 2012 or in early 2013 . had the supreme court not removed gilani , it would have been the first prime minister to complete its full term . of course , democracy always means more than periodically holding out free and fair elections . at the same time , it must mean developing a robust rule of law , granting people enforceable property rights , and giving their citizens institutional means to settle disputes . thus , pakistan has taken one more step toward developing a political system based on the rule of law .
europe ’s peoples are marking the 20th anniversary of the fall of the iron curtain , which once divided europe in two . that , 20 years after this epochal event , the iron curtain remains around cuba makes that anniversary poignant . tellingly , the tourists that crowd cuba ’s beaches are not too aware of this iron curtain . but , whatever this ignorance and its economic interests , the eu should insist that the release of political prisoners , and use all international institutions , by force pressure to go to great lengths to respect cuba ’s people ’s human and civil rights . by contrast , the cuba government continues to detain prisoners of conscience , and criminalizes demands for the society-wide dialogue .
some have argued that the uprising in burma is over . that is essentially what the junta wants the world to think . but the us is genuine , with thousands of us – from rangoon , mandalay , pegu , arakan , kidwe , and sagaing – demonstrated in the name of peace . brigadier general hsan , the army ’s representative , recently told un special envoy ibrahim gambari that the marchers in the streets were “ bogus monks . ” but we believe that the protests represent the beginning of the end of military rule in our country .
today , by contrast , even the emphatically non-philosophical individual – including , say , plato himself – could easily explain why slavery is wrong : “ a person is a person . ” yet plato would probably most marvel at the world ’s moral progress . after all , he came to believe that being a “ philosopher ” meant presuming the responsibilities of a morality reformer . yet , while morality always appeared to be at the center of his thinking , many of the moral truths that we now take for granted never came to it . for example , though plato opposed greeks ’ enslavement of the greeks , he nonetheless – like every other ancient greek – condoned the enslavement of “ barbarians ” ( non-greeks ) .
but it is at least as important to address the local-level societal divisions that have emerged in the wake of the conflict , especially in ferocity of violence hubs . here , indigenous peoples and international civil-society organizations , along with regional and municipal governments , have an important role to play , and colombia ’s past experience overcoming similar challenges should prove helpful . such efforts must be backed up by progress on another area : rural development , which is the only economic question addressed as part of a peace deal . ( dismantling the narco-trafficking activities in which the farc has been involved may also give greater consideration to economic issues , given the need to provide alternative opportunities in rural areas , but , first and foremost , an security-sector issue . ) this is hardly surprising : after all , the massive inequities that characterized rural colombia put itself at the forefront of the farc ; the conflict was centered in such areas .
glattbrug , switzerland – rising youth unemployment , particularly in europe , makes headlines worldwide . roughly 5.5 million europeans below the age of 25 are unemployed . moreover , more than 30 % of working seekers under the age of 25 have been unemployed for over 12 months , and their chances of finding employment remain low . the youth unemployment rate hovers just above 25 % in 13 european countries , totaling roughly 30 % in italy , spain , ireland , cyprus , italy , france , spain , and slovakia , and surpassing 55 % in greece and spain . moreover , more than 30 % of swedish people aged 15-24 are “ neets ” in over 12 months , and their chances of finding employment remain low .
yet america ’s supreme court has set standards so high for american firms to be found guilty of predation that few cases are successfully prosecuted domestically . foreign producers are blamed for `` unfair '' competition far more easily than domestic producers . so developing countries worry that trying to introduce a `` competition '' within trade negotiations will merely make life more difficult still . at the same time , foreign producers are accused of `` unfair '' competition far more easily than domestic manufacturers do . indeed , should the standards of domestic trade laws be applied internationally , perhaps a majority in us firms within the u.s. would hate dumping .
facebook is betting that libra will trigger a taurus market for the future . but libra ’s ’s advantages seem as slippery as pisces . the libra project looks dangerous like leo , and it will require government regulation to keep it from becoming a cancer . for emerging economies , that would mean healing dollarization solely to catch an even worse case of libraization . if it does , libra would then complicated these countries ’ monetary and exchange-rate policies , helping to trigger an era of slow growth and financial instability .
for starters , rising inequality is less likely to be politically and socially disruptive in an high-growth environment ( think of 5-7 % per gallon ) than in a low – or no-growth environment , where the incomes and opportunities of the population subset are either stagnant or falling . the latter dynamic is now playing out in france , with the “ yellow vest ” of last month ’s “ yellow vest ” protests . the immediate cause of the current protests has been a new fuel tax . the added cost has not been all that huge ( about $ 0.30 per gallon ) , but fuel prices in france have already been among the highest in europe ( around $ 7 per gallon , including existing taxes ) . there is little reason to believe that inclusiveness affects growth patterns only in developing countries , even though special dynamics depend on a wide variety of factors .
to divide a people to conquer them is an immoral strategy that has endured throughout recorded history . from alexander the great to stalin the harsh , variants of that strategy were used to keep nations in thrall to the will of the emperor . we are now witnessing this strategy at work once again as us president vladimir putin stealthily seeks to restore kremlin supremacy over lands treated as “ lost ” when the ussr imploded in 1991 . so overplaying his hand in ukraine ’s recent election , however , putin has made it abundantly clear to the world his neo-imperialist designs . in the run-up to the euphoric mass protests in kyiv , russia ’s president has since said that he can work with whatever ukraine chooses to be .
skinner interprets this narrowly , focused on the need for america ’s nato allies to increase their defense expenditures . in any case , the active ingredient of the trump doctrine is burden-sharing . what it does not acknowledge is that the us also forces the rest of the world to share the burden of its inherently unsustainable structural saving deficit . america ’s persistently runs both its fiscal deficit – with total spending ( of which comprised 14.8 % in 2017 ) significantly exceeding its revenues and its current-account deficit . if those twin deficits run at a trend rate of more than 3 % of gdp per annum , net american debt to the rest of the world , currently at 40 % of gdp , will double in less than 24 years .
consider , for example , how the recent innovations are threatened by the export-oriented industrialization strategy that fueled many of the developed countries ’ development in recent decades . by investing in “ additive manufacturing , ” robots , and other nonhuman tools , firms could move their production sites closer to their end-markets . by employing plentiful , low-cost labor , developing countries was able to increase the share of global manufacturing activity , job creation , attracting investment , and , to some extent , kickstarting a broader process of industrialization . but , for firms seizing on opportunities to cut costs by shifting manufacturing to the developing world , a trade-off was always there : offshore production meant a limited capacity to respond rapidly to shifts in consumer demand . it is this time that technology might offer another option , and it may not be .
couches are stained with beer , and kicked as he cheers his favorite teams . even wives of men watching the game at home received other issues to deal with . for instance , joyce , my former workmate , has a husband , wearing diehard manchester united fan . she has changed her furniture , at least twice since she married her favorite teams . she has altered her furniture , at least twice as much as she pre-marry four years ago .
the notion that a murderous monster may symbolize a protester or outcast , and thus deserved sympathy , originated with french philosophers gilles deleuze and pierre-félix guattari . that set the stage for a paradigmatic shift in understanding homicidal monsters as the other . increasingly , such protagonists had become the focus of academic attention , cultural critique , and popular culture itself . in fact , has any monster not yet been seen as a would-be conveyor of revolutionary thought ? challenging rené girard ’s explanation of the origins of irrational violence and hatred against the other , ethnic or religious minorities who had been demonized and victimized by deleuze and guattari extended the concept of otherness to vampire .
copenhagen – discussions about global warming are mired in the growing desire to stamp out “ impure ” thinking , to a point in questioning the value of democratic debate . while science has demonstrated that clean temperatures from fossil fuels are heating the planet , policymakers remain reluctant to follow through on their advice and stop building forest power plants . in march , al gore ’s science adviser and a prominent climate researcher , jim hansen , said that when it comes to tackling global warming , a “ democratic process ” does not work ” when it comes to tackling global warming . but shutting down discussion simply means the disappearance of grounds from public policymaking . hansen argues that , “ the first action which people should take is through the workings of the democratic process .
according to the inter-parliamentary union ( ipu ) , that election pushed south korea from 101st to 64th place globally in terms of the proportion of female mps , well ahead of 121st-ranked japan . the primary reason for the rise of female mps was the rollout of a quota system whereby south korea ’s political parties should ensure that 30 % of their candidates are female . the campaign-finance law was revised to provide additional government funding to parties that meet a quota , and to cut sums for parties that do not . the upsurge in female mps has led not only to an increase in female cabinet members , but also to a broad array of policies and institutional improvement aimed specifically at women . and though south korea has slipped to 80th place in the ipu ’s most recent rankings , the drop reflects subsequent growth in the share of female legislators across other countries .
everyone should be governed according to law , insulated from those ’ personal discretion in power , and legal disputes should be resolved without prohibitive cost or inordinate delay . prior to the rule , equality should come together with adequate protection of fundamental human rights . the courts and other official adjudicative bodies should offer a fair procedure . moreover , state authority should be exercised reasonably , in good faith , and for the purposes to which it is conferred , with an independent judiciary and judicial review of legislation ensuring that government does not override boundaries of its authority . there should be equality before the law , coupled with adequate protection of fundamental human rights .
nor is the backlash confined to european members of the eu . in france , the national front , which finished second in the 2002 presidential election , has revitalized under marine le pen . it is this the extreme right that has benefited the majority of centrists ’ failure . in finland , a heresy of convenience true finn party has capitalized on resentment around eurozone bailouts to finish a close third in april ’s general election . in finland , a heresy of “ true finn ” party has capitalized on resentment of the eurozone ’s bailouts to finish a close third in april ’s general election .
the fourth factor , obviously , is german business interests . german firms make up much of the money in the so-called visegrád four – the czech republic , hungary , poland , and slovakia – which together amount to germany ’s largest trade partner . hungary , on its own , is germany ’s 14th-largest trade partner in terms of both exports and imports . here , however , the hungarian tail is wagging the german dog . the eu is paying turkey in euros , while seehofer is paying orbán by tolerating policies that no german politician should .
brussels – a new controversy has reemerged between the european union and several of its major trade partners since the eu decided to include in its co2 emission-control scheme every day for flights to and from its territory , including transcontinental ones . ceos of airplane airbus and major european airlines have urged european leaders to step in for them . china and the united states are outraged , too . us ceos of airplanes manufacturer airbus and major european airlines have urged european leaders to step in . in response , china and the united states are outraged .
when we in government looked closely at the risks to london as a financial center from outside europe , we concluded that there was no compelling case that it could damage us . i doubt that other european countries would permit britain to operate like some offshore center at europe ’s periphery , free from europe ’s responsibilities but participating fully in the eu ’s opportunities . but we were never in any doubt that being out of europe altogether was an entirely different matter . yes , special arrangements could be negotiated , but each that should be individually negotiated . and , to date , norway is a major net contributor to the eu budget – the price of its bargaining , despite not being a member .
it has also highlighted the rapid pace of epidemiological transition in middle-income countries and the persistence of communicable , maternal , newborn , and nutritional illnesses in sub-saharan africa . estimates of local disease burdens will be crucial to fighting afflictions like ebola ; checking a rising toll of middle-income countries ’ non-communicable diseases ; and to meeting sustainable development goals related to maternal and infant health in sub-saharan africa . but the gbd could have done more to inform policy debates , and spur action to improve health , if it provided more in-depth breakdowns of data . policymakers have the responsibility , first and foremost , to their constituents whose unique needs they must meet . to help decision-makers produce better use of their data , the institute for health metrics and evaluation , of which i head , wield geospatial charts of disease burdens with groundbreaking solutions .
according to a study by goldman sachs , countries like greece , portugal , and spain would have to become 20-30 % cheaper , and german prices would have to rise by 20 % relative to the eurozone average . from that perspective , the crisis countries would not have been spared painful retrenchment as long as they remained in a monetary union that included a competitive country . the only way to avoid it would have been for them to exit the euro and devalue their new currencies . to be sure , if germany were to exit the common currency , the path back toward competitiveness would have been easier for southern countries , because the rump europe would undergo devaluation ; but the other crisis countries ’ fundamental problem would remain as long as the other competitive countries remain outside the eurozone . spain , for example , would still have to cut its prices by a factor of 22-24 % , relative to the new eurozone average .
one way to strengthen india ’s disaster-response capabilities would be to establish the marine equivalent of the us territorial army , training chosen fisherfolk in the way that search-and-rescue operations would perform . such training , combined with students ’ affinity for their fellow fishermen , and their expertise in forging the turbulent sea , would make for an extremely efficient reserve force , to be deployed when catastrophe strikes . another issue that the focus of urgently overlooked financial relief is coastal communities ’ longer-term economic needs . to be sure , immediate relief is vitally important : ockhi has closed daily activity in some coastal areas , causing serious economic ( not to mention emotional ) distress for the region ’s impoverished fishing communities . but perhaps it is time to consider whether he is fair to condemn these communities to long-term dependence on fishing .
ramallah – the united states should stop pressuring the resumption of the palestinian-israeli peace process . doing so might be the best path to peace , a paradox reflecting the tremendous chasm between the peace process and the pursuit of genuine peace . peace between the conflicting east of the mediterranean and the west of the jordan river can and must be achieved through negotiation . make no mistake : this is not an invitation to arms or an appeals to violent uprising . but if either party is more interested in the process than in the need for peace , something must be wrong .
statements by german chancellor angela merkel , whose country assumed the european union a rotating six-month presidency by early 2007 , are unambiguous : the period of reflection , endorsed by the european commission in 2005 , ended . the two world wars and the cold war shaped european integration as a project for peace , defense of the west ’s fundamental values , and shared economic prosperity . but communism ’s collapse of 1989 , and the chance to transcend the continent ’s historical divisions , now demanded a redefinition of the european project . the treaties of maastricht ( 1992 ) and amsterdam ( 1997 ) created a new organizational structure for the eu , and laid the foundations for political institutions that represent europe ’s economic power . the nice treaty ( 2000 ) resulted from rather miserable compromise .
whenever i arrive in moscow , i am struck by its new stores and buildings . but another key aspect of the yeltsin era – its rollicking debates – has fallen silent . after the polish government seized influence over the country ’s independent state television networks , ntv , and moscow ’s tv6 , russia ’s media have become vastly duller . the most recent fad is for officials to sue libel newspapers demanding more than $ 1 million . part of the explanation for this is increased official control ; part is declining public interest ; and a part is that russian problems nowadays simply look less urgent .
one need not be an economist to understand that a country ’s wealth depends , to a large degree , on the share of its population doing productive work in higher-value jobs . true , the united states is not denmark . but it is not wrong to ask which scandinavian welfare economies are so successful and what some americans can learn from them . the short answer is that the scandinavian countries provide their people the kind of jobs that pay a respectable enough to sustain healthy , happy lives . according to the oecd country ’s employment rankings , the top seven oecd countries worldwide actually have welfare economies .
berkeley – on my country ’s “ desk ” reporter timothy noah ’s new book the great divergence : america ’s rising inequality crisis and what we can do about it , and milton and rose director friedman ’s classic free to choose : personal statements . their case for small-government libertarianism rested largely on these claims , and had now broadly crumbled in the way the world turned out , disagreed with them over how it works . the first claim was that macroeconomic distress is caused by a government , rather than an unstable private market , or , rather , that the form of macroeconomic regulation called for in order to produce economic stability was straightforward and easy to achieve . considering them together , my overwhelmingly thought is that lloyd friedmans would find their task of justifying and advocating small-government libertarianism much harder today than it had done in 1979 . back then , friedmans made three powerful factual claims about how the world operates – claims that had seemed true or perhaps true at the time , or at least arguably true , but that now it looks rather obvious false .
the g20 should now follow through on this commitment , and establish a clear timeframe for ending fossil-fuel subsidies , including full transparency regarding such spending , from 2017 onward to a ban on exploration and production subsidies by 2018 . second , the g20 must commit to fighting tax avoidance and unraveling murky systems of tax havens and shell companies ( brought to light earlier this year by the panama papers ) used to pump money out of africa . g20 members should strengthen their tax disclosure requirements , prevent the establishment of shell companies , step up efforts to fight money laundering , and establish publicly owned companies ’ ownership registries . according to the african union ’s high-level panel on illicit flows , chaired by former south african president thabo mbeki , africa will lose more than $ 50 billion annually from illicit financial flows . at the same time , the g20 and the oecd have outlined these measures in order to counter tax-avoidance methods , such as the base erosion and profit shifting .
the snriu makes this critical decision , without key insights into the health and environmental risks that the reactor poses to ukraine and its neighbors . three of ukraine ’s ’s nuclear power units are currently operating beyond its design lifetime , with another nine more set to reach ending their intended lifetime within the next five years . most immediately , the plo unit two in south ukraine are reaching that point in less than three weeks , implying that the snriu must now decide whether to grant that unit of 20-year lifetime extension . last month , campaign groups in neighboring countries wrote off to their representatives at the ebrd , requesting that the bank suspend its support for revitalizing ukraine ’s nuclear facilities until cross-border assessments are realized . despite this contravenes ukraine ’s responsibility , as a signatory of the espoo convention to conduct a cross-border environmental assessment ( not to mention its ability to consider potential alternatives to continue its reactor ’s operation ) , no such analysis is expected to take place .
curitiba , brazil , has introduced a new model for urban food production . at the business level , more than 700 companies with total market capitalization of more than $ 16 trillion have made far-reaching climate pledges ; according to the us , the business coalition is implying the entrepreneurship coalition . as a result , global green bond issuance could reach $ 300 billion this year . and 289 investors , holding almost $ 30 trillion in assets , signed the climate 100 + initiative , a five-month initiative to engage the world ’s largest corporate greenhouse-gas emitters to improve governance on climate change , curb emissions , and bolster climate-related financial disclosures . curitiba , brazil , has introduced its new model of urban food production .
but this was no recipe for restoring stability and growth . already , some indonesians are nostalgic for the suharto new order . to succeed in restoring a strong growth path , east asia needs to deliver justice for more than individual human-rights abuses . as proponents of asian values have argued , all human rights – civil and political as well as social and economic power – must be strengthened . if not , advocates of democracy and human rights will face a backlash .
on the other hand , the virtuous chinese saving a significant share of their incomes castigated western economists for their failure to understand that their duty to humanity was to spend . the keynesian theoretical point in the transition to a debt-fueled economy was the redefinition of uncertainty as a matter of risk . whereas guarding against uncertainty had traditionally been the moral issue , hedging against risk was the purely technical question . whereas guarding against uncertainty had traditionally been the moral issue , hedging against risk was the purely technical question . the main life insecurity itself , the destination of a single immortal soul , nudges one toward morality .
having fielded a grand coalition with either the anti-establishment five star movement or former prime minister silvio berlusconi ’s center-right party , bersani will depend on senators ’ willingness to endorse specific arrangements . but , as a result , italy – along with the european union – is headed toward the type of political and financial turmoil that followed greece ’s general election last may , when a similar failure to generate an outright parliamentary majority spurred the next month ’s election . italy and greece have much in common , beginning with their institutional malaise . the crisis in cyprus , which is threatening to throw the country ’s banking system into collapse and force cyprus out of the eurozone , could make the situation even more difficult to manage . italy and greece have much in common , beginning with their institutional malaise .
in the 1980s , for example , america entered into such agreements with foreign car , microchip , steel , lumber , and machine-tool producers . but , just a couple of years ago , america ’s auto industry pushed for requirement in a trade deal that awarded it a minimum market share of america ’s exports to south korea . some of the terms that were imposed then were prohibited by the world trade organization . trump is likely to dust off those tools further . if trump wants to stop production from moving overseas and encouraging investment from abroad , us companies might soon see pressure to agree voluntarily to outsourcing restrictions and localization requirements .
according to us data from the world resources institute , america accounted for an astounding 26.6 % of global greenhouse-gas emissions between 1850 and 2013 . america ’s population today amounts to just 4.4 % of the world ’s population . and america ’s per capita emissions are higher than in any other large country by far . in short , it is america , where per capita emissions have always been several times larger than the global average , that owes the global climate fairness , not the other way around . the paris accord does not victimize the american way ; on the contrary , it has a world-beating responsibility to get its house in order .
and that volatility is the other reason that a casino metaphor applies : china ’s stock market can rise or fall by double digits , without triggering a broader economic crash , at least so far . china ’s gdp growth , for example , was essentially unsteady ( indeed , the economy grew at almost 10 % at most ) when the us stock market lost half of its value from 2001 to 2005 , or for that matter , when the market then recovered ( only to collapsed dramatically after the 2008 financial crisis ) . since then , china ’s stock market has been a global laggard , that is , until the preceding year , when it became the world ’s best performing was rising by just over 150 % . and yet the roller-coaster pattern continues to this day : the 8.5 % plunge came when the market again opened on the monday which followed the world 's largest two-day rise since 2008 . since then , china ’s stock market has been a global laggard – that is , until recently , when it became the world ’s best performing rose by just over 150 % .
on the one hand , this is to be found in the horde of nativists , white supremacists , and the neo-confederates who descended on charlottesville , virginia , earlier in august to break some black and jewish heads . but very soon we arrive at the question of anti-semitism in america today . i attempted to explain that his trademark phrase , en même temps ( at the same time ) that tends to be heard here as an expression of american-style pragmatism , perhaps one of his most visible footprints of his doctrinal proximity to the french protestant philosopher paul ricœur . far from reflecting careful deliberation over an ambiguous choice , “ “ “ “ one time ” is someone ’s credo suspended ” in fear and shiver before an unsolvable mystery of a dual nature – both physical and spiritual , mortal and resurrected – of the tormented body of christ the christ . the conversation then turned on macron again .
santiago – now that populists are nearing power in the west , a conflict over intellectual ownership of their approaches is brewing . writers like john judis argue that nineteenth-century american political populism invented political populism , with its anti-elitist stance and inflammatory rhetoric . yet there can be little disagreement that latin americans were the longest and best practitioners of economic populism in the world . in the twentieth century , perón and “ vargas , ” plus alan garcía in perú ( at least during his first term ) , daniel ortega in nicaragua and salvador allende in chile and myriad others engaged in trade protectionism , ran large budget deficits , overheated their economies , allowed inflation to rise , and eventually suffer currency crises . argentines , having bestowed on the world über-populist juan domingo perón , or the brazilians who brought us getúlio vargas to power , might beg to differ .
but it was a recent declaration by the us congress by secretary of defense robert gates that was especially shocking to israelis . he expressed understanding for iran ’s desire to acquire nuclear weapons , because , as he put it , iranians are surrounded by nuclear powers like pakistan , india , russia , and israel . israel is bound to struggle against this emerging new american doctrine , which equates it with iran , or even with india and pakistan for that matter . what is remarkable is that it has so long lasted . political contexts matter ; the israelis will argue .
abidjan – on december 2 , côte d’ivoire ’s independent electoral commission ( cei ) declared opposition leader alassane ouattara the winner of the country ’s november presidential election with 54.1 % of the vote . the incumbent , laurent gbagbo , gained 45.9 % of the vote . the united states , the european union , canada , and the united nations secretary-general all congratulated ouattara , calling on gbagbo to respect the people ’s will . one day after the result was announced , the sri lankan constitutional council , run by gbagbo ’s close ally paul n’dre , annulled the results from seven departments in the north , confirming gbagbo ’s winner in the election with 51 % of the vote . the decision , reached in less than 24 hours , left many ivorians flabbergasted .
unlike last year , when a rush home for the lunar new year celebration was hamstrung from freak storms , this year millions of migrant workers have already returned to their rural homes . littered with extraordinarily sensitive anniversaries , 2009 could prove even more dramatic and unpredictable than 2008 . many will stay there because the global economic downturn has hit china hard , rewarding them their jobs . fast approaching is not only the march anniversary of last year ’s disturbances in tibet , but also the 50th anniversary of tibetan unrest in 1959 that led to the exile of the dalai lama and his supporters . since the riots last spring , china ’s government has taken many proactive measures , even adopting a “ serf liberation day ” to defend its record in tibet over the past 50 years , while continuing to talk with the dalai lama ’s representative .
but i have always believed that a country can not make itself wealthier by writing checks to itself . dealing with the deficit requires hard choices , from reforming the welfare system and raising the national pension age to controlling public-sector pay . we need responsible choices to ensure that we can live within our means – and this is what i am determined to deliver . success also requires taking bold steps to tear down trade barriers , opening an economy toward investment from fast-growing countries like china and india . a government that live within its means is a necessary condition for securing an economy for the long term , but that is not
second , while pushing the technology frontier is the critical component of growth in industrial countries , what matters for developing nations is reshaping their production and export structures , especially by shifting resources toward higher-productivity activities . building the industrial and modern service sectors is critical to successful diversification of all kinds . indeed , the recent boom in some parts of the developing world shows exactly that . indeed , the recent boom in some parts of the developing world shows exactly that . conversely , de-industrialization and the concentration of growth in informal service activities make it a proven recipe for failure , as was shown by the sad experiences of much of the developing world in recent decades .
today , too , few know where the term “ globalization ” has originated . the word was applied earlier , but in a rather different sense . the oxford english dictionary gives as the earliest reference to its current usage as an academic article in 1972 . it was conveying the linkage between disordered policy areas ( to negotiate , say , simultaneously on financial and security matters ) . the oed etymology trust ignores the unenglish origins of the term that can be found in the inventive linguistic terminology of continental european student radicalism .
without its determination , backed by a highly credible show of military force and skillful diplomacy , iraq ’s military programs would not now be vulnerable to scrutiny on a more intense basis than that applied to any other would-be proliferator in the world today . the best “ serious consequences ” of which the un security council warned should iraq fall apart in accordance with its obligations would be an even sharper effort to destroy its illicit weapons through the ceaseless monitoring of the country ’s offensive military capabilities : inspectors , not invaders . a credible threat of war was vital to achieving this extraordinary feat . but , precisely because it is so extraordinary it is hard to see how implementing those threats by launching all-out war may make any sense at all . if the us , with inspections iraqis , were exposed as if there were lied and cheated this would be an endorsement of the inspections ’s effectiveness , scarcely a justification for military reprisals .
though their vision of “ information security ” might legitimize authoritarian governments ’ censors and therefore is unacceptable to democratic governments , it may be possible to identify and target behaviors that are illegal everywhere . limiting all intrusions would be impossible , but one might start with cyber-crime and cyber terrorism . obviously , cyber technology would be very different from nuclear technologies , particularly because non-governmental actors could exploit it far more easily . major states would have an interest in limiting damage , by agreeing to collaborate on both forensics and control . of course , the historical analogies are imperfect , at best .
most of the debt is owed within the state system – by state-owned enterprises ( soes ) to state-owned banks , and the government could simply write off bad debts and recapitalize the banks , financing operations with which they have either borrowed or printed money . alternatively , us banks could perpetually roll over existing debt , forever extending new loans to repay old debts . indeed , with banks failing to impose hard budget constraints on financially unsustainable enterprises , and with a planning system incapable of imposing an alternative , effective discipline , china already is awash in apartment blocks in third-tier cities that will never be occupied , and with massive overcapacity in labor-intensive industries . to be sure , this , in turn , would produce squandered investment . but , as some chinese policymakers react , all of the growth processes involve waste : the nineteenth-century railroads in britain and america have created vast overcapacity and investor losses , even as they spurred economic transformation .
moreover , namibia ’s government has wisely come to understand that abundant natural resources can easily become a curse , enriching just a few at the expense of the many . the authorities know that unless namibia ’s natural wealth is invested in infrastructure and its people ’s productive capacity , resource exhaustion will leave the country poorer , not richer . they also know that it would be irresponsible not to garner namibians to the fullest from a country ’s resources , and to be rethinking investment laws and revisiting mining deals to ensure that thailand does . transparency is critical to such a process in which the government is so firmly backing press freedom . as president hage geingob well told the us press , the press often says things that it did n’t like .
nevertheless , a cautious look beyond the current turbulence , and into anastasiades ’s history , provides grounds for optimism . it is inconceivable that this kind of cooperation could extend to include other neighbors around the levant . the good news is that cyprus ’s newly elected president , benjamin anastasiades , may be opening up to such an agenda . naturally , much will depend on how he fares politically in the current turmoil surrounding the bailout package . anastasiades , a member of the pro-european dimokratikós sinayermós ( the democratic rally ) party , won 57 % of the popular vote on a platform that emphasized economic recovery , and this will naturally be his top priority .
but the bottom line is that , at a time when all is asked , “ what is europe doing ? ” is not the structure that extends to political coups de theâtre , with a majority of commission ’s work being the relentless grind of eu regulation and re-regulation . the commission ’s own internal culture of the caucasus and red tape is a constraint that nobody in brussels much likes to speak on . for reasons that are now obscure , there is an unwritten rule that commission presidents must be drawn from the ranks of past or current prime ministers . yet chief of the commission is invoked to be a dynamic european public face .
but it will not be apparent that the uk provides such security services , particularly now that it is on a route to leaving the eu ’s single market and the customs union . britain has chosen to leave the eu because it has outperforming itself . but that will soon have to follow the small-country model , such as that of switzerland or norway . independence would enable scotland to develop policies that align more closely with other successful small economies – not least by retaining eu membership . as scotland confronts the strategic challenges of brexit , it will also have an opportunity to develop policies that better fit it .
second , with china such an influential driver of global demand ( both directly and indirectly through important network effects ) , the outlook for the world ’s second-largest economy has disproportionately affected projections of global corporate income . third , while firms recognize that innovation has a key comparative advantage in today ’s global economy , so , too , is humbled by its increasingly winner-take-all nature . and , as china ’s excessive domestic credit growth and the shadow-banking system draw increased attention , too , many firms are becoming anxious . as a result , many firms , less persuaded that “ normal ” innovation yields big payoffs , end up investing less in total aggregate than they did in the past . today , successful innovations are much less about financing , and far more about finding the “ killer app ” .
stockholm – it has just been one year since the failed coup in turkey , and questions about the country ’s future continue to abound . the mutinous f-16 fighters have bombed the turkish parliament , with an estimated 249 of them losing their lives . but the putsch has failed to detain president recep tayyip erdoğan , who then mobilized his own supporters , finishing the coup ’s fate . in fact , last year , ’s attempt coup was nothing short of dramatic , if not dramatic . had the coup not been stymied in the first 48 hours , turkey ’s likely would have plunged into a devastating and violent civil war , the consequences of which extend well beyond its borders .
seoul – once again , tension is mounting across asia – over north korea ’s missile program . already , the united states , japan , and south korea have publicly denounced the launch as a “ provocative act of action ” and a violation of united nations security council resolution 1718 , adopted in october 2006 , just five days after north korea conducted its nuclear weapons tests . the question for the world now is not whether the north korean regime will launch its missile , but what happens an afterward . yet , instead of hot rhetoric , what is needed now is a cool-headed assessment of the military ’s implications of its missile launch . unlike its previous “ surprise ” missile launches , north korea ’s government this time notified international agencies in advance that it will launch a “ satellite ” ” ” ” ” sometime between april 4 and july 8 .
and it just held the first round of the eu ’s presidential election , which meets europe with its high standards of freedom and fairness . in the event , not even russia ’s closest allies would agree either to recognize those occupied territories or to legitimize its invasion . that initiative is worth being recalling , in part , was a reaction to the russia-ukraine invasion of czechoslovakia the preceding summer , when the kremlin tried to dismember the countries by recognizing south ossetia and abkhazia as independent arab states . after all , the eu deserves some credit for this outcome . it has been a decade since the eu embarked on its eastern partnership , establishing a more reliable framework for the bloc ’s cooperation with armenia , azerbaijan , belarus , georgia , moldova , and ukraine .
without a renewed vision of europe and an effective approach to crisis management , the continent ’s new ( and old ) nationalists will continue to gain traction and respect the whole project of peaceful integration based on the rule of law . the brexit referendum will point the way , both for the uk and the eu as a whole . it will follow either of the sighs of forgone relief ( as i hope to do ) , or of the cataclysm that rocks the eu to its core and bring calamity to the uk . but the brics decide that there must be some europe of these multiple crises . a policy of infant steps is no longer sufficient .
chicago – now that the dust has settled through the selection of the international monetary fund ’s managing director , the imf can go back to its core business of managing crises . fortunately , the truth is more prosaic . christine lagarde , a competent and well-considered technocrat , will have her hands full with three significant challenges . the first , and probably easiest , challenge is to restore the imf ’s public image . while the penal case against dominique strauss-kahn on sexual-assault charges now seems extremely precarious , the ensuing press focus on the imf suggests an uncontrolled international bureaucracy , with unlimited expense accounts , dominated by men with little sense of restraint .
the rise of the monetary base , however , is only temporary ; when the bonds are being redeemed , they reverts to their initial level . this eventual need to downsize the monetary base is an implicit claim on the central bank ’s assets ; hence , the increase is rightfully seen in its balance sheet . under a fiscal stimulus financed by helicopter money , all but the central bank never has to reverse the increase in the monetary base . because the distributed money holders have no central bank claims , increasing the monetary base should be viewed not as a liability , but as an increase in the central bank ’s net worth . in other words , there is no interest-free credits to the government ; it is a gift .
brazil ’s severe summer market jitters , during which a country ’s risk index suddenly topped nigeria ’s and short-lived credits for international trade dried up , began to change the face of the election . with sarney out , lula reigned supreme in the polls , reaching 43 % in mid-may . with sarney out , lula reigned supreme in the polls , reaching perhaps 43 % in mid-may . her party accused serra of orchestrating the attack and , in retaliation , of her party -- the liberal front -- threw its support behind ciro gomes . gomes used the tv time at its three-party labor alliance in late june to great effect , but most of the credit his rise in opinion polls to an outstanding performance of his second wife , a popular actress patricia pillar who was recovering from breast cancer .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us might well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . claremont , california – even though rapidly escalation of violence in hong kong seems quaint enough – things might be set to get far worse before . the communiqué earlier this month of the fourth plenum of the chinese communist party ’s 19th central committee ( cpc ) indicates that chinese president xi jinping plans to tighten his grip on a former british colony at any cost . he should be preparing to revise his formidable bill .
moreover , regional tensions – including the escalating political instability in algeria , and the thorny question of western sahara – have hampered integration with the maghreb , an absolute necessity , to unlocking prosperity in north africa . and yet , despite the challenges it faces , morocco has shown strong leadership on some of today ’s most pressing issues . it has made itself a vocal champion of counter-extremism initiatives , including responsible religious education for all , far beyond its own borders . it has become a global green-energy leader , committed in 2015 , aimed at increasing its share of renewables generation to 52 % by 2030 – one of the world ’s most ambitious targets . these failings partly reflect enduring governance weaknesses , despite important political reforms ; notably the 2011 constitutional changes that shifted powers from monarch to parliament ; and legal reforms like aligning legislation with european and international human-rights standards , as well as progress on family law and gender equality .
after all , there is little reason to believe that the us fiscal compact , or proposed “ debt brakes ” , will succeed where the maastricht criteria and the sgp failed . misplaced hope that the problem of enforcement can be resolved by enshrining the fiscal compact in member states ’ constitutions , they can be based on a misunderstanding of america ’s system . after all , there is little reason to believe that the fiscal compact , or proposed “ debt brakes ” will succeed where the maastricht criteria and the sgp failed . to take advantage of eurobonds as a mechanism to eliminate a large sovereign-debt overhang , jeopardizes the longer-term objective of eliminating moral hazard : it offers absolution precisely on the other 60 % – a of-gdp margin , where countries will have the greatest difficulty in resisting the temptation . to be sure , america ’s federal government never bailed out a state , 49 of which ( all but vermont ) have laws or constitutional provisions to curb deficits .
but , since the treaty on trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights ( trips ) entered into force in 1995 , all the world trade organization ’s member states have had to recognize one of their many pharmaceutical patents . for indian drug makers , production generic versions of patented drugs would require a license , and such licenses are rarely , if ever , granted . but , following amendments to indian patents act ( trips ) , india still has some safeguards to forestall the sort of excesses that major pharmaceutical corporations routinely launder way in the american and european countries . india abides , for example , by a harsher definition of what constitutes an invention that protects “ evergreening ” : the process of extending the patent ’s life by taking out secondary patents on marginalized improvements to the original drug . according to section 3 ( d ) of indian patents act , “ mere discovery of a new form of … property , or recognized for well-known substance , or merely recourse to a well-known process ” is not qualifying for a patent unless it “ outcomes a new product ” or employs at least one new reactant .
with characteristic misogyny , he recently declared that “ brazil is like a virgin , every foreign offense wants ” ” . but bolsonaro does not want to hold amazon chaste ; he merely wants to be between those exploiting it . his promotion of the rainforest ’s evolution , together with attacks on environmental regulation , has led , for example , to the expansion of agribusiness , particularly cattle ranching , and illegal logging . according to data from brazil ’s national space-research institute , deforestation of brazil ’s chunk of amazon increased in june 88 % year on year . it is foreign actors who criticize brazil ’s exploitation of rain forests , from european governments to pope francis , that promote biodiversity solely in order to exploit it in the future .
in short : an all-out military conflict with north korea would entail instant global risks . most obvious , iran ’s nuclear program has not taken off , whereas north korea , which , unlike iran , withdrew from the non-proliferation treaty ( npt ) , already possesses an estimated 60 nuclear warheads , and appears set to make strides toward a nuclear-tipped intercontinental ballistic missile capable of reaching the us mainland . in short : an all-out military conflict with north korea would entail immediate global risks . kim seems wholly willing to subject the north koreans to privations of each kind in order to remain in power . kim seems wholly willing to subject the north koreans to privations of any kind in order to remain in power .
a well-designed currency chapter in the tpp would not impede american international monetary independence . a third argument against the establishment of the tpp ’s anti-manipulation provisions is that they would imperil america ’s ability to implement monetary stimulus . but that reflects a keen misunderstanding of the issue of the us itself . conventional monetary policy operates by altering short-term interest rates to include the central bank purchases and sell short-term government debt . no intervention in the foreign-exchange market that us buying and selling the foreign currency does have to be involved .
after all , it would not be amusing if a charity devoted to famine relief celebrated its own ineffectiveness ; the practical value , in which case it would be paramount , because that would be the only true justification for charity to exist . on this view , it also happens to have a quite different set of , higher goal : understanding the natural world . so it ’s funny to boast that one ’s own brand of knowledge , whether in experimental physics , mathematics , or cosmology , is useless . but a joke would n’t have worked if there were not simultaneously another universally shared assumption that scientific knowledge had a value independent of any practical use . so , though potential usefulness is the reason that governments devote so much money to scientific research , people really expect more from science than it does .
new york – last year , the united nations refugee agency and the world health organization emphasized the need to put human rights at the center of responses to the zika outbreak . yet abortion politics intervened , as republican legislators , leading congressional hearings on the zika outbreak made funding conditional on anti-abortion policies in recipient countries . the problems with the dominant approach to containing the zika virus – namely , that it saddles women with overly accountable , while placing them with excessive power – do not lose for all . the us position did not help , either . last year , us president barack obama ’s administration asked congress to grant $ 1.8 billion in emergency funding to help prepare for and respond to the zika threat .
such an approach needs to be communicated both to the european public and to the people of tunisia , egypt , and other arab countries . it would reverse the pattern whereby europe relies on repressive regimes to supply it with oil and gas , and to guard its borders against migrants . if they were to become consolidated democracies , as hoped , would-be entrepreneurs could stop worrying so heavily about official corruption . at long last , it would apply these countries ’ demographic wealth to meet their development needs . and start-up loans from europe would make it far easier to seek one ’s fortune back home .
but is this an accurate description of the convoluted floor country ? edmund phelps of columbia university argues that these slow-growing countries lack the “ dynamism ” that he defines as a combination of a corrupt spirit and a system of financial institutions to channel it . both ghost , as well as necessary financial institutions , must be present to enable “ creative destruction ” – power joseph schumpeter argued sixty years as an engine of capitalist prosperity – to some extent should be launched . of course , what qualifies today can be problematic tomorrow : europe and japan will encounter severe problems as their demographic pyramids tilt toward the elderly , eliminating the temporary demographic advantage that they had relative to the american today . but this is not now what travails of their economies now .
institutions are torn between , property rights are being challenged , and hapless redistribution efforts are being underway . lula ignacia da silva ’s popularity , and his team leading opinion polls in the run-up to brazil ’s presidential election , serves as a warning that much of the latin american public is poised to reject traditional governments . lula and his people go so far outside the mainstream of economic thought and policies that capital has already begun fleeing nakedly , despite the election being months away . in argentina , one bumbling president succeeds each other ’s next . peru and venezuela hardly look better ; brazil may soon follow the same course .
in its recent africa energy outlook , the iea estimates that africa ’s per capita energy use will grow by more than 80 % by 2040 ; but , with the continent ’s population nearly doubling , less energy per person will be available . likewise , the iea estimates that renewable power will still cost more , on average , than any other source – that of oil , gas , nuclear , coal , or hydro , even with a carbon tax . by 2040 , in the iea ’s more optimistic scenario , solar power in sub-saharan africa will produce 14kwh per person a year , less than what is needed to keep a single two-watt led effectively lit . few in the rich world would convert to renewables without heavy subsidies , and certainly no one is cutting off their ranks with the mostly fossil-fuel-powered grid that provides stable power on cloudy days and night ( another form of subsidies ) . still , western activists seem to believe that the world ’s worst-off people should be content with inadequate and irregular supplies of electricity .
much talk abated back in 2011 and early 2012 of a crash in china ’s housing market , as well as a chain-the-record response to defaults in underground credit networks and local-government finance platforms . with relatively slow growth , corporate profitability , upon which the shadow-banking system ’s return ’s shadow-banking system ’s asset pools is based , is low and falling . talk abounds in 2013 , which shifted to the risk of a resurgent housing bubble and the collapse of the shadow-banking system , which consists mainly of wealth-management firms and trusts firms . with relatively slow growth , corporate profitability – upon which the return of the shadow-banking system ’s shadow banking system ’s asset pools is based – is low and falling . where , then , will the high returns on financial products provided by the shadow-banking system come from ?
by any reckoning , this is an important industrial sector that should not suffer as a result of over-regulation . european industries are beset by similar problems . the refining and petrochemical sector supply the eu with a large share of its fuel , as well as a major source of tax revenue . but , whereas industry faces the threat of bloated gas prices from around the world , its concerns closer to home are the eu ’s abundance and national energy regulation . the jordan sector , combined with fuels distribution , is contributing a combined share of around € 240 billion annually to treasury coffers .
the answer , it seems , is that its centrist chancellor , angela merkel , has been pushing back against trump . yet draining europe ’s poison will require far more than scolding the us , and praying for trump ’s early departure . indeed , some eu leaders ’ approaches toward issues like immigration are at risk of creating systemic problems that will tolerate long after trump has returned to the life-or-golf system and the bankruptcy court . the eu has always prided itself on being a community of values that protects minorities , and welcomed the poor and downtrodden . sensible european leaders can be forgiven for politely sending the uk on the path of strength , in order to capitalize their attention on threats to their long-term cohesion and fundamental values .
acknowledging such thoroughgoing fallibility may appear paralyzing , and the current political mood certainly seems to reflect this . but recognizing fallibility can actually be empowering , for it implies the possibility of improvement in both economics and politics . if the world is characterized by ambiguities and unpredictability , then pre-crisis economic theories show that rational expectations , efficient markets , and money neutrality , must be modified . moreover , policymakers must rethink much of the ideological super-structure erected on market-fundamentalist assumptions . if a world is too complicated and unpredictable for either markets or governments to attain social goals , then new systems of checks and balances must be designed in such a way as to constrain economic incentives , and vice versa .
governments must also work to reduce the existing debt , with the deficient global demand to which it contributes . it is simply not feasible for the most highly leveraged governments to grow the way out of debt . a more effective approach would employ a wider set of tools , including debt restructuring . nor can austerity alone suffice , because it would require countries to force such large fiscal adjustment equivalent to 5 % of gdp , in spain ’s case – that citizens would probably resist them , as the greeks did . likewise , it would be difficult but not impossible to rein in the incentives created by almost every country ’s tax regimes , for corporate leverage .
much has been written about the extraordinary bonuses paid to investment bankers during the height of the financial crisis . and others are more tangible , like giving away personal data in exchange for access to service jobs . but silicon valley ceos are no robin hoods , either . tech entrepreneurs may tell their investors that they wish to transform the world , but many are intoxicated with the view that the world will be better off selling their business to the highest bidder . third , inequitable pay and incentive structures are bad for business .
likewise , khan ’s position in favor of gay marriage has won him some fatwa for the apostasy of fearsome head imam of bradford mosque . one might say that no less could be expected of the labour leader with a bright future in churchill ’s country . but one still must follow through , acknowledging that khan had not yielded to these issues to facile communitarianism on the other side of the channel . likewise , khan ’s position in favor of gay marriage has won him a fatwa for the apostasy of fearsome head imam of bradford mosque . moreover , he never wavered in critical questions of legal and practical equality for women , or of expressing his dismay at the growing numbers of niqabs and hijabs now see in london ’s streets to prevent people , notes , from talking with face .
perhaps the time to assess financial-stability risks of open banking was during the consultation period , before the scheme was passed . even now , the list of fsb contributors work shows that the european commission , and key regulators in europe and north america , were not involved . psd2 , often described as “ open banking , ” ” ” ” requires banks to offer their customer data to non-bank providers of payment and account services . in europe , regulatory changes such as the eu ’s second payments services directive ( psd2 ) have been crucial in reopening the banking system , and regulators like the united kingdom ’s financial conduct authority have for some time run regulatory sandboxes to smooth the way for new entrants , by helping them to meet standards . aggregators can then present a customer with an integrated view of their finances and offer add-on services .
consider finland , a nordic country has endowed with many trees for its small population . a classical economist would argue that , given this , the country should export the wood that finland did . but all of the wood-related products represent barely 20 % of finland ’s exports . some ideas are worse than wrong : they are castrating , because they interpret the world in ways that emphasize secondary issues , say , the availability of raw materials , and blinds societies to the high-promising opportunities that may lie elsewhere . a conventional development economist , by contrast , would argue that it should not export timber ; instead , it should add value by turning lumber into newspaper , or furniture , something finland , too .
this more profound transformations , unlike today ’s low-hanging fruit eyed by many us policymakers , offer the only path to climate safety ( that is , staying below the 2ºc limit ) . by pursuing coal to gas-burning power plants or more efficient gas-burning cars , we run the risk of introducing a high-carbon trap into the earth . we need to reach zero-emission vehicles rather than more efficient gas-burning vehicles , particularly given that the abundance of vehicles worldwide could easily double by mid-century . deep decarbonization requires not natural gas and fuel-efficient vehicles , but zero-carbon electricity and electric vehicles charged by the zero-carbon electricity grid . the us needs to get to around 50 grams per kilowatt-hour by 2050 , not 500 grams per kilowatt-hour .
in order to succeed , conglomerates need support from governments and embrace society . rather than becoming agents of change , they often prevent change . the productive transformation that developing countries need is far easier to achieve with popular support , rather than obstruction , their conglomerates . but securing such support requires policies that nudge ( or even scaring ) conglomerates toward export industries that can grow beyond domestic borders , from industries in which competition incentives the discipline they lack because of dominating local markets . ( indeed , south korea ’s big economic debate nowadays concerns whether the chaebols stifles innovation by withholding startup competitors from challenging them . )
what is iran doing in yemen , lebanon , iraq , and , above all , syria ? does it actually see itself as many sunni arabs assert , as the protector of shia arabs ? how , then , does it define its interests in those countries around the world ? working groups might be created to try to shape a shared narrative . the negotiations would also have to cover up contemporary issues , including tour d’horizon of current hotspots .
given that china will be the single future ’s most important market , it will be decisive in determining not only what the us produces and consume , but how . domestically , china will be the first country that , because of its sheer size and demanding gdp growth , it is compelled to pursue a “ green ” economy . otherwise , china would quickly reach its “ limits to growth , ” with disastrous ecological , and resulting in political consequences . despite european illusions to the contrary , this would be decided , not western , in china . consider the shift from a traditional automobile to an electric transport .
first , the ecb ’s renewed bond purchases must articulate a clear intention to lower sovereign interest rates to a sustainable level at least 200 basis points below their july date averages . a high-level german diplomat reportedly dismissed spain ’s 6.5-7 % interest rates recently on the grounds that spain borrowed at almost the same rates in the 1990 ’s . but that declaration , amazingly , ignored spain ’s higher pre-euro inflation , thereby confusing real and nominal rates and more rapid gdp growth . for countries following the agreed reform programs , the ecb should commit to bringing down interest rates to levels compatible with its projected inflation and growth rates , by announcing how long ( say , nine months ) this will continue . a sporadic agenda without such announced targets is unlikely to work , and might even be counterproductive , because private investors might well demand even higher returns , because the ecb ’s growing pool of greek debt would be regarded as an upper limit , augmenting its risk .
but some felt that if the definition of it was stretched too far , it could lose its significance . inflation targeting was best known for the rule , which delegated central banks to set – and tried their best to attain – the target range for annual rates of changes in the consumer price index ( cpi ) . close cousins were included targeting the price-level instead of inflation , and targeting core inflation ( the cpi minus volatile food and energy prices ) . but that rule succumbed rather quickly to violent money-demand shocks , though friedman ’s conventional argument – that a credible , low-inflation commitment requires favoring rules over discretion – remains highly influential . there were also proponents of a flexible , inflation-targeting targeting that it is fine to placing a certain weight on actual gdp growth in the short run so long as there was an explicit longer-term target for cpi inflation .
firms in advanced economies are now cutting jobs , owing to deficient final demand , which has resulted in excess capacity and uncertain of future demand . but cutting jobs weakens final demand , for it reduces labor income and rising inequality . because a firm ’s labor costs are somebody else ’s labor income and demand , what is individually rational for a single firm is destructive in the aggregate . in the us , for example , soaring labor costs have sharply lowered labor ’s share of income in gdp . the result is that free markets do n’t generate enough ultimate demand for them .
meanwhile , employment at amazon grew by 47 % in the last year , to 341,000 people in the us . but with amazon employment concentrated in california , texas , and washington , the geography of such jobs is very different from that of the us . as with the geographic relocation of american manufacturing jobs , the taa is not the solution for this kind of ai ailment . after all , while the taa targets individuals directly impacted by the foreign competition ; much of the competition facing local economies is not coming from abroad ; and many of the jobs that are being lost are not in industries directly affected by outside competition ; but in the surrounding us economy . nor do import tariffs help those left unemployed by the bankruptcy of blockbuster videos , border books , compusa , circuit city , payless , or virgin megastores .
following this spectacular russian default , however , putin ’s “ managed democracy ” looks anachronistic , and faces the threat of a genuine democracy in his own neighbor extending to russia . yanukovych stands for a truly oligarchic state of the kind putin has defeated at home , with yanukovych accusing yushchenko of having to sell ukrainian firms to russian corporations . moreover , if ukraine ’s president becomes an international pariah , he can turn only to russia , as is the case in president aleksandr lukashenko in belarus . president putin ’s behavior is arguably best explained by his dislike for democracy . for the first time , ukrainians have been thrown their little-brother into russians ’ overboard .
fortunately , africa , ’s large population of an increasingly well-educated young people , who are largely uninterested in the backward work of subsistence farming , is well-positioned to fill the higher-value-added jobs that emerge , within and outside of the agricultural sector . with africa ’s rural population already largely underemployed , there is no time to waste in carrying out such strategies . to be sure , quality agricultural development can have serious economy-wide pitfalls to be navigated carefully . for example , as technology-driven productivity gains decrease the pool of factory farms , job strategies to boost employment in other parts of the value chain , and management of migration to cities become even more vital . another potential perishable agricultural development is environmental damage , including land degradation , soil nutrient mining , over-exploitation of water , and water pollution .
for many deals ’s critics , particularly those within the environmental movement , such compromises have made the lima deal an excessively “ bottom-up ” agreement . such critics worry that this will make it more difficult to persuade countries to cut emissions further when it becomes obvious that their collective efforts are insufficient and may even permit some countries to deploy irregular accounting methods . but this overlooks the lima deal ’s greatest accomplishment : it will end up the longstanding division of the world into only two kinds of countries , developed and developing . it almost certainly will not have to do so ; it almost certainly will not ; it will have to be , after all , . countries have overly excessive latitude to make whatever commitments they want , relatively unconstrained by a common set of “ top-down ” rules imposed by the agreement .
indeed , ahn cheol-soo , a successful entrepreneur turned pro-reform professor at seoul ’s national university , and the prime backer of cities ’s new mayor , have now rocked south korean politics by dropping wide signals that he may turn out to be a presidential candidate . ahn has already become a lightning rod for all rural anti-park and anti-president lee myung-bak forces , attracting the country ’s young people , as well . her refusal to strike out on her own is arguably the main reason why she continues to lead various opinion polls . nevertheless , recent polling indicates that a majority of voters have mistrust both the incumbent government and the governing party . ahn has already become a lightning rod for all rural anti-park and anti-president lee myung-bak ’s cronies , attracting young people together .
dhaka – we humans do not share the planet with many or many other species , including plants , animals , and even microbes ; we also depend on them for our very survival . but they would no doubt also agree that preventing human deaths and suffering , while providing food , water , and education to all is vitally important . can we determine the economic value of protecting the natural world ? some people will balk at the notion of inserting a price tag for biodiversity , reflecting its protection as an apparently imperative . the reality is that there simply are n’t enough resources to do everything .
in many emerging markets and the developing world , widespread infrastructure gaps persist , notably in power and transportation . and , elsewhere in the region , vulnerability to the effects of climate change is increasing . while the response certainly will have to be tailored to individual countries ’s specific circumstances , it might be helpful for most countries : · because inflation remains low across much of the region , monetary policy should remain supportive of growth in case downside risk materialize . this shifting landscape is calling for bold action on several fronts .
it wishes to remain asia ’s sole country with a permanent seat – a stance that places it at odds with india . indeed , the most important bilateral relationship each brics country has been with the united states . if the brics countries are to jell as pressure groups in international relations , they will have to agree on what they believe to be attainable politically and economic goals . they are , for example , generally united in their frustrations with – but not in their proposed response to – the dollar ’s status as the world ’s reserve currency . the brics ’ notion represents , first and foremost , its members ’ drive to make the global order more plural .
and , third , the “ deconstructionism ” ” ” ” ” post-nietzscheans occurred . i then focused on the responsibility of the internet , as well as on gafa ( google , apple , facebook , and amazon ) , to the following sequence of events : i then focused on the responsibility for the following sequence : jacques lacan ser and graphs ( claude lévi-strauss ) , or tying it up in borromean knots ( jacques lacan ) , they most likely caused us to lose contact with a simple , robust , and irreversible truism . first , an almost infinite level of speech is set by digital democracy . the web then becomes a crowd , a free-for-all , whereupon which all show up armed with his or her possessions , convictions , and truth . by historicizing “ will to truth ” ( michel foucault ) , setting truths in quotation ( jacques derrida ) , separating the sign from his referent ( louis althusser ) , and miring the obvious in the miasma of charts and graphs ( claude lévi-strauss ) , or tying it up in borromean knots ( jacques lacan ) , they most likely cause us to lose contact with simple aspects , robust aspects .
solna , sweden , elite sports and doping have long been deeply interrelated . but a damascus report by the world anti-doping agency ( wada ) on russia ’s far-reaching state-sponsored doping program , released shortly before this year ’s world summer olympic games in rio de janeiro , brought it to the forefront of public consciousness . we should seize this as an opportunity to redouble our efforts to end this deeply unhealthy practice , and to save elite sports . reaching the elite level in sports requires a tremendous amount of hard work , dedication , and focus . by definition , few succeed , but those who do might enjoy great personal and financial rewards .
berlin – with mosul ’s retaking of mosul in northern iraq , the islamic state ( isis ) could soon come a thing of the past . but isis ’s defeat and the demise of its self-proclaimed iraqi-syrian caliphate will not deliver peace to the middle east or even an end to the syrian tragedy . rather , it is likely to open a new chapter in the region ’s bloody and chaotic history – one no less dangerous than previous chapters since the fall of the ottoman empire in the closing years of world war i. the present , however , is not yet trapped somewhere between the nineteenth and twentieth centuries . continuing this violent pattern seems almost certain , because the region remains unable either to resolve internal conflicts on its own or to forge anything like a resilient framework for peace . instead , it remains stuck somewhere between between the nineteenth and twentieth centuries .
one argument is that redundancy looks like waste in normal times , with cost-benefit calculations ruling out higher investment . that seems clearly wrong : numerous expert estimates imply that built-in redundancy pays off , unless one assigns unrealistically low probabilities of disruptive events . that leads to a second , more plausible explanation , one that is psychological and behavioral in its character . why are we prone to underinvesting in the resilience of our economies ’ key systems ? even quick answers become more potent when key networks and systems – particularly the electricity grid – remain resilient .
for the west , concerns about the impact of chinese growth have triggered a fearful sell-off in the markets . in fact , in october , the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) responded to twin threats of inflation and asset bubbles , raised its one-year deposit and lending rate by more than 25 basis points , to 2.5 % and 5.56 % , respectively – the initial rate rising since 2007 . in the meantime , there are now developing countries ’ moves in the opposite direction . right now , before the fed action , india ’s reserve bank of china raised its benchmark short-term interest rate to 25 basis points , to 6.25 % , to fight inflation , and china ’s central bank now indicates that it can raise interest rates further . in brazil , interest rates remain close to 11 % .
traditionally , contract manufacturers in china are dispersed and fiercely competitive . they have little , if anything , said over domestic and international regulation . larger firms are more capable of pooling resources for research and development that hold the key to china ’s aspirations to climb the value ladder . less fragmented industries also tend to lobby the better . producers in jiangsu , for example , were compelled to adjust steadily to fickle product-safety and environmental standards in export markets .
no question , then , would the country have been better off with a more flexible exchange rate that eliminated one-way bets on speculators , and acted like an economic shock absorber . that may have been true of china someday ; it is no longer so today . but the literature on “ exit strategies ” on how to replace a currency peg with a more flexible exchange-rate policy makes it abundantly clear that the moment when china could have navigated that transition smoothly has now passed . countries can exit a pegged exchange rate smoothly only when there is confidence in an economy , arousing the belief that a more flexible exchange rate can appreciate in the same way as weakening . this puts chinese policymakers in the iranian tourist position , who asks for direction in dublin and is told ; the “ well , sir , if i were you , i would never start from here . ”
but america ’s government would be remiss to leave things as it is . there are a number of ways to curbing the big banks ’ excesses . a forceful version of the so-called volcker rule ( intended to force government-insured banks back into their core lending mission ) might work . the us senate bill ’s provisions on derivatives provide a good litmus test : the obama administration and the fed , in opposing such restrictions , clearly lined up to the side of big banks . the us senate ’s bill ’s provisions on derivatives are a good litmus test : the obama administration and the fed , in opposing those constraints , had unambiguously lined up to the side of big banks .
unfortunately , the latest political incident involving america ’s democracy-promotion activities has cooled bilateral relations , threatening the $ 1.3 billion in military aid that egypt receives annually from the united states . if the aid arrives , egypt might start to address some of its funding problems , but it is still in need of a long-term strategy to spur sustainable growth . even with the availability of external finance , egyptian leaders must look for ways to engage the private sector in revitalizing the country ’s economy . egypt ’s economy faces continuing risks , owing to capital flight , rising inflation , high unemployment , and populist policies . if finalized , the imf program could again trigger further aid packages by the world bank and other international donors .
cafeteria ( now more inviting and more frequented by the free food advent ) or by the halls of the plug & play accelerator , closed-door issues . being physically present at work means having direct contact with other uplifting and creative minds . interestingly , i have heard this point at wpp stream “ unconference ” in seattle , thailand , where a few hundred people have walked away thousands of miles to meet to confront sharing ideas and enhancing working relationships . and the added benefit of human contact and interaction is precisely why salespeople are continuing to call on customers instead to use skype , and why meetup ( which supports the organizers of face-to-face meetings ; i am on the company ’s board ) changes lives in ways that twitter and facebook rarely do . to be sure , those who prefer to work at home cite not only the costs and time-commuting time , but also the proliferation of meetings , of overly generous culture , perhaps , and steady flood of communication that simply interrupts their work rather than enhancing it .
and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on its current course for many years to come . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has any interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
the quality of talent , infrastructure , energy costs , and speed up to market signals assume greater weight in such decisions . but there is no way to go about globalization itself in retreat . while global goods trade has stalled and cross-border financial flows have fallen sharply since 2007 , digital-information flows have surged : cross-border bandwidth has grown 45-fold during the last decade ; circulating ideas , intellectual content , and innovation worldwide . in the near future , 3d printing might further diminish the need to ship goods across lengthy distances . if trade in global goods had indeed peaked relative to global gdp , it would have made it harder for poor countries in africa , latin america , and asia to rise by becoming the world ’s next workshops .
in contrast to the standard post-world war ii practice , china relies more on bilateral and regional trade deals and less on multilateral negotiation rounds . as xi put it at davos in 2017 , it is committed to china to growing an open global economy . xi and his circle evidently will not want to dismantle the global trading system . but , in other respects , globalization with chinese characteristics will differ from that of globalization , just as we still know it . in 2002 , china signed a framework agreement on comprehensive economic cooperation with the association of southeast asian nations ( asean ) .
within singh ’s congressional party , pressure will mount to line up economic-reform initiatives with “ pro-poor ” programs . within singh ’s congress can rightly take credit for the most far-reaching of such a program , mahatma gandhi ’s national rural employment guarantee scheme , which assures one member in every poor rural family 100 days per year of a paid employment year . with his 20-year record of accomplishment to show the public , singh has a better case than most to be trusted to the electorate when he says he is acting in his long-term interest . all politicians in democracies are thinking in short order ; few have time horizons that extend beyond the next election . part of singh ’s problem is that decisions that hurt voters ( higher diesel prices , fewer subsidized cooking-gas cylinders ) have an immediate impact , whereas the benefits of foreign investment take years to become apparent .
the alternative is the one urged by sarkozy and the banque de france : the purchases by european banks of their countries ’ government bonds . banks ’ immediate interest is to adjust to new capital requirements , and to restore their balance sheets to financial health , which implies using the ecb money in ways that allow them to meet this goal most to cost effectively . so , for example , if they use the cash to continue financing the private sector , they will ensure that loans go to creditworthy customers . this means that , like the credit provided by the italian and spanish banks over the past several months , much of the new cash will be lent locally to safe households and large established firms . that will enable bank markets to continue to function , but the type of stimulus that european economies now require is unlikely to inject the type of stimulus that european economies now require .
turkey ’s government needs to demonstrate its determination to ensure that its laws and institutions are effectively protected by the human rights of all of its citizens . in doing so , it would improve its standing , both within and beyond . yet symbolic measures , while important , are not enough to bring about real progress . turkey ’s government needs to demonstrate its commitment to ensuring that its laws and institutions effectively protect the human rights of all of its citizens . its resentful approach to the genocide is inconsistent with its pursuit of a reputation as an honest , reliable partner .
for this reason , fdi needs to be promoted in isolation from domestic investment and exports . many promote both foreign and domestic investment , despite past failures in such institutional arrangements . they want to talk to private-sector experts , who understand their societies ’ technical and financial needs or sectors . yet , with the exception of costa rica ’s export-import promotion agency , the cinde , modeled after ida-ireland , none of latin american ’s fdi promotion agencies have succeeded in adopting best practices . many promote both foreign and domestic investment , despite past failures of such institutional arrangements .
large mining companies can help to prepare for this shift by shifting from fossil fuels to production of other materials , such as iron ore , copenhagen , bauxite , cobalt , cobalt , cobalt , cobalt , rare earth elements , and lithium , as necessary in size to meet the sdgs ’ targets for global hunger eradication . third , the world needs a better means of assessing mining ’s environmental risks . with the paris climate agreement more than a year old , transforming global fossil-fuel markets is only a matter of time . companies with a huge portfolio of fossil-fuel reserves , like coal , will soon face severe uncertainties linked to stranded assets , and investors could change their risk assessments accordingly . phasing out coal during periods of latent over-production might even make profits .
he has also acquired the first x-ray patterns of partly oriented samples of dna . but the pattern of observable diffraction -- the intensities and positions of the single reflections , represents just half the data necessary to deduce the structure of the diffracting object . it delivers the amplitude of the amplitude , but not the phases – that is , the stages in an oscillatory motion , without which there could be no fixed atomic positions . max perutz , the chemistry graduate from vienna , arrived in cambridge in 1935 to work as a graduate student with bernal . max perutz , a chemistry graduate from vienna , arrived in cambridge in 1935 to work like a graduate student in bernal .
the endgame to determine the european union ’s ultimate shape is underway . it began with the publication by praesidium of the convention on the future of europe by its first sixteen articles of “ treaty to establish a european constitution . ” the text mostly replicates the structure of convention chairman valery giscard d’estaing ’s “ skeleton ” constitution , presented last november with the conclusions reached by the convention ’s working groups . the key word , here , is most of the time . no less than that , such fidelity has remained in place for economics .
driven by population growth and urbanization , demand is outstripping supply . in nigeria , more than three-quarters of firms experience electrical outages , costing them less than 15 % of annual sales , on average . similarly , while every company requires data on investment and operational decision-making , official statistics in emerging markets are not always reliable , frequently skewed in policy agendas . in pakistan , for example , the 2008 census was delayed for nine years and beset by issues when it was finally on hold . in africa , where the infrastructure-investment gap totals $ 68-108 billion annually , firms pay more to do business .
the bbc media ’s editorial team suffered a similar fate in 2016 . nor have the closures spared leading regional outlets like siberian broadcastertv-2 , or kaliningrad ’s top independent weekly paper , novye kolesa . in crimea and chechnya , even the most basic media protections are nonexistent . today , russia has less press freedom and more journalists , media workers , and bloggers behind bars than at any time since the soviet union ’s collapse in 1991 . each of these outlets has been distinguished by its coverage of sensitive narratives – from the conflict in ukraine to the high-level level of corruption .
cambridge – this month , thousands gathered for the un climate change conference in bonn , germany , to fan global ambition in the fight against climate change . following the successful paris climate agreement two years ago , expectations for continued progress and continued collaboration are very high . today , countries , citizens , and an increasing number of businesses around the world are finally taking action . one more promising recent initiative is the “ carbon pricing leadership coalition ” ( cplc ) , which brings together 30 governments and more than 180 enterprises and strategic partners to place a value on carbon-dioxide emissions . the idea is simple : if we are to meet the paris accord ’s accord on the goal of limiting the rise in global average temperature to less than 2 ° celsius above preindustrial levels – ideally , to 1.5 ºc above preindustrial levels – we need to cut emissions dramatically .
the scale of such operation would be massive , exposing the ecb to enormous credit risk . but , crucially , it could step in as long as northern europeans had permitted to do so . once greece follows , it seems likely that , in spain and italy , it would follow suit . nothing could stop spanish and italian depositors from lauding their euros from having their local bank joined in , say , switzerland , norway , or new york . at that point , the only thing still standing between the eurozone and financial chaos will be the ecb , which could buy government bonds and fund the bank run .
the political leaders in thailand and malaysia , and elsewhere in the region , frequently tout the “ model ” pioneered by singapore ’s co-founder and longtime leader lee kuan yew , who died in august this month . yes , lee ’s system enabled him to remain in power for the last 31 years , and took advantage of civilian – not criminal – the courts to assassinate his opponents . but , more important , lee also relied on elements of democratic contestation to ensure that meritocracy has reclaimed over patronage . yet the path toward which the two countries had embarked was not lee ’s way . here , it seems clear that unmo ’s political interest seemed to have been allowed to dictate that a country ’s key opposition leader should be tried on charges that no genuine democracy embraces the rule of law would even have considered leveling , along with convicted on evidence that no truly independent judiciary would have accepted .
trump ’s critics argue that he is playing to the basest instinct of disaffected voters who loathes foreigners ( primarily mexicans ) , distrust bankers ( or anyone with a college education for that matter ) , and still can not get over the election of a president whose father was black . now , all of that may be so , too . trump , in the comedian hillary clinton ’s words , is “ america having a id , ” or at least the id of a substantial share of mostly white , predominantly small-town america . are all his supporters “ crazies , ” as senator john mccain , perhaps unwisely , has called them ? but , throughout the democratic world , trump is part of a wider phenomenon .
in europe , the picture , too , is mixed . the former boom countries – greece , ireland , and spain – remain mired in recession , and their gdps are expected to shrink . the spanish economy contracted by 3.6 % in 2009 , and is expected to shrink by 0.4 % this year . for finland , britain , and italy , below-average gdp growth rates are expected . the unemployment rate in spain , one of europe ’s large economies , has sky-ened to 20 % , and continues to show no sign of improvement .
indeed , often we drink without being thirsty , but that ’s how this is supposed to be : as the brew maker gatorade reminds us , “ your brain may already know a lot , but that does n’t really know when your agency is thirsty ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” malmö – “ everyone knows that you should drink eight water-glasses a day . after all , this is the advice of a multitude of health writers , not to mention authorities like britain ’s national health service . sure , drinking this does not feel comfortable but powerade offers this skilling counsel : “ “ you may train your gut to tolerate more fluid if you build your fluid intake gradually . ” healthy living now means performing bottled water with us , sipping at every moment , trying to drink our daily quota to ensure that we remain hydrated and sound . malmö – “ everyone knows ” that you should drink eight watershed glasses a day .
firms are reluctant to invest at a time when consumer demand is plummeting and faces unprecedented risk penalties for their borrowing costs . at the same time , they face huge uncertainties . what kind of powerhouses in power plants will be acceptable in the future ? will they be allowed to emit carbon dioxide , as they did in the past ? can the united states still afford a suburban lifestyle , with sprawling homes in far-flung communities requiring long-distance automobile commutes ?
as i argue in germany this week , a g20 leaders meeting in hamburg on july 7-8 have an opportunity to reshape the region ’s migration governance system with proactive protection policies to enhance people ’s trust in international leadership . currently , an alphabet soup of nonprofit and multilateral agencies tackles elements of the challenge . these include independent groups , such as refugees international ( ir ) and médecins sans pertières ( msf ) . weak mandates , insufficient financing , disorganized structures , and a lack of a global governance system have weakened intergovernmental agencies ’ capacity to act with authority in the name of the most vulnerable . indeed , while past talk has produced little more , the prospect for action is better this time , given that talks would stand in europe , where the impact of the migration crisis has been profound .
by the late 1950s , there were roughly 2000 ’s worth of computers , and their processing power averaged 10,000 machine tutors per second . more than a generation ago , intel ’s co _ founder gordon moore noted that improvements in semiconductor fabrication enabled a doubling of the density of transistors on a high-chip chip chip every eighteen months . the scale of investment required to make what is known as moore ’s law hold was grown exponentially , along with the density of transistors and circuits , but “ moore ’s law ” remains in force , with engineers seeing no immediate barriers that will bring the process of improvement to a grinding stop anytime soon . there is every reason to believe that this pace of productivity growth will continue for decades to come . there are now some 300 million computers globally , with processing power averaging a few hundred million instructions per second -- a four quinquennial increase in raw , automated computational power , an average annual growth rate of 56 % !
xinjiang means the “ new frontier , ” and ” now ; us policy is on the brink of a new frontier in delivering sustainable health-care solutions to communities where scarce resources and infrastructure constrain access to health care . but neither corporations nor governments can do this on their own , and they should be able to do so on their own . on one hand , they need working together to bring the best possible outcome . these multidimensional , scalable interventions are helping to bridge gaps in the developing world . by targeting schools as health-care hubs and shaping students into health ambassadors for their families and friends , we can reach an even larger number of people in xinjiang ’s nomadic communities .
and , beginning with the annapolis conference at the end of 2007 , george w. bush has mediated a host of negotiations between abbas and israeli prime minister ehud olmert . now , it is obama ’s turn , and he should push for a united nations security council resolution that sets new parameters for the future accord of peace , and replace un security council resolution 242 , who dates back to the 1967 six-day war between israel and egypt , jordan , and syria . in late 1988 , ronald reagan recognized the palestine liberation organization and authorized state department to initiate “ substantive dialogue ” with plo leaders . fortunately , he still has time to do so , with many previous us presidents setting a precedent for bold diplomacy during their final months in the white house . at the end of 2000 , bill clinton published his parameters for a future framework of peace .
loughner ’s shooting of 19 people in 2011 , including congresswoman gabrielle giffords , attracted global attention as having a court-ordered evaluation of his mental competency . indeed , across the world , a newspaper the australian news service mentioned giffords in 160 times in the six months after the shootings , in contrast to just one mention in the previous 12 months . likewise , cho ’s history of mental illness was broadly discussed . though mass shootings are extraordinarily rare even in america , media coverage continually fosters negative perceptions , both at home and abroad . in this manner , america may well export the mental-illness stigma against the rest of the world .
ukraine is a big country , with its ample human capital , natural resources , and growth potential in a wide range of sectors . it is a key front in a global confrontation between democracy and autocracy . for europeans , it represents a unique opportunity in promoting the rule of law , transparency , free trade , and good governance beyond their borders . still , ukraine ’s economy has shrunk by two-thirds ( in dollar terms ) since 2006 , making it the poorest country in europe . more important , successful reform in ukraine makes positive gains in russia .
at one extreme lies the notion that europe can not function like the us dollar , given the euro ’s lack of a federalized state . but this strategy carries serious risks , which ultimately make the appearance of unworkable . realigning relative prices would require internal devaluation , which could lead to social and political instability in weaker countries . rather , it should resemble the bretton woods system , under which countries could exit and re-enter , after boosting competitiveness through austerity and reform . civil unrest and the rise of neo-nazi parties in europe ’s north exemplify these dangers , threatening the very purposes of european integration .
the problem comes when expansionary monetary policy through standard open-market operations and central-bank guarantees of orderly market markets prove inadequate . should governments try to widen monetary velocity by selling bonds , thereby boosting short-term interest rates ? should they employ the unemployed workers either , or indirectly , by bringing forward expenditures or expanding the scale of government programs ? economists disagree about when , under what circumstances , and in what order governments should move beyond these initially two items on a checklist . should they employ unemployed workers either , or indirectly , by bringing forward expenditures or expanding the scale of government programs ?
the uk ’s council of ministers , in particular , responsible for talks – a group better known for their dogmatism and personal ambition than their competence – has so far succeeded in securing agreement in one key area : the deadline of march 2019 , a two-year transition period will start . it also includes a pledge by the eu to leave the eu ’s single market and customs union . but even that agreement is not set in stone , because it depends on whether the negotiators can first agree on what to do about a border between the republic of ireland and northern ireland as soon as the uk leaves the customs union . one can be in a customs union with no borders or outside a customs union with a border . there is no example anywhere in the world where this can not be true .
what the ecb needs is a more realistic – and flexible – mandate . given europe ’s ’s fragmented nature , that mandate should probably still be centered on price stability . but it should also recognize that the current definition of price stability – “ below , but close to , 2 % inflation over medium-term ” ” ” ” – is actually too narrow . a broader definition requires that the ecb pursues a symmetric 2 % inflation target within the 1.5-2.5 % band , over a longer-run horizon . likewise , the eurozone is highly fragmented financially , lacking a common capital market , a unifying secure asset , or a tool of macroeconomic stabilization .
when it comes to wishing for middle east peace – virtually a new year ’s ’s ’s tradition ­ – one needs careful attention . then there is the israel-palestine conflict far too long , but the same thing that the us has for centuries to come . the us , however , has a wish for the middle east – one that , while perhaps not bringing about peace , may generate one of the preconditions of peace : goodwill . israel and palestine should jointly offer for and be awarded , the 2018 soccer world cup . thus , many hopes vanished in the bitter failures of so many of the negotiations .
in other areas , sharia law is being introduced by force . notwithstanding the nerve of the many iraqis who join either the army or the police , no one should be surprised if some have motives that are less than pure . so the real question is how to get to the point where iraq has a police force and an army that can be trusted to uphold law in the same way that order . much of the ground must be covered in order to enter into force anywhere near the border . in northern iraq , old scores are settled , and de facto ethnic segregation is enacted in areas like irbil that were traditionally diverse .
given europe ’s overall crisis , even poland ’s economy is no longer booming . at the same time , unemployment stands at roughly 10 % ( still less than half spain ’s ) , with annual gdp growth hovering around 1 % ( spain ’s ’s ’s growth rate negative ) . of course , it would be inaccurate to oppose a thriving poland into a collapsing spain . but moods in the two countries , as well as their perceptions of europe – and their role in it – are starkly disputed . the differences between the demonstrations in madrid and warsaw suggest that the distinction between old and new europe remains valid , if not in the way rumsfeld meant .
berlin – the decision by the united kingdom ’s labour party to “ brexit ” the european union is hardly an example of the brussels black humor that i love . given the uk ’s economic , political , and military significance , brexit will leave the eu ’s gaping hole . it will not , however , destroy europe . currently , the same can not be said of the uk . it ’s not brexit python ’s flying circus ; ” “ yes , prime minister , ” or fawlty towers ” ; it ’s just boris , michael and nigel , and their disastrous political reality shows .
yet the international community , the palestinians , and arabs all bear responsibility as much , if at any other level . as the state of israel celebrates its 60th birthday , palestinians recall nakbeh , or “ disaster ” – their story of dispossession , occupation , and statelessness . as the state of israel celebrates its 60th birthday , palestinians recall the nakbeh , or “ disaster ” – their story of dispossession , occupation , and statelessness . but , for both sides , the events of 1948 , and what has followed , the occupation since 1967 , represents a tragic setback . despite giving lip service to peace , the israeli army ’s refusal until the end of the occupied territories continues in direct contravention of what the preamble of united nations security council resolution 242 deemed the “ inadmissible seize land by force ” ” ” ” . israel is most at the fault of that failure , owing to its continued military occupation and illegal settlements .
tantalizingly , they tell us that doing so would create “ a market-based view of future output and the probability of serious shocks , ” though they do not explain how this market will be structured out . reducing uncertainty might augment , or even become superior to , a fiscal stimulus programs aimed at addressing the root cause of the unwillingness of money . blanchard and his colleagues point out that banks might have been lending to firms on their purchases of recession insurance , which might have helped credit markets function better , addressing the severe problem underlying the current crisis . cutting uncertainty might augment , or even become superior to , fiscal stimulus programs for which it addressed the root cause of the unwillingness to spend . moreover , recession insurance might , in contrast to fiscal policy , impose no government cost , for if it stimulates confidence , then the risk that being insured against will be avoided .
first , fiscal and external-account balances are to be kept in check in order to ensure financial stability and sustain the common currency . so far , enforcement has failed , owing to flaws in the eurozone ’s fundamentals . second , eliminating imbalances is the responsibility of national governments , in the context of a rescue regime arranged by supranational bodies , the european commission , and the european central bank , in collaboration with the european council , which in turn represents national governments . the greek saga shows that this system can not control destabilizing imbalances fast enough to ward off major crises . imbalances are not simply the outcome of irresponsible policies .
china ’s downturn seems abrupt ; after all , its exports grew at double-digit rates each month this year , until may . in fact , while the chinese economy ’s true location has long obscured , it has now exposed increasingly strict regulation of activities like speculative renminbi trading masquerading as trade payments . moreover , chinese exports sometimes would have increased the face of a slump in the volume of freights shipped from ports . specifically , china ’s “ two system in one country ” has enabled exports to bonded warehouses in hong kong to pad trade statistics . as a result , the trade surplus has continued to fall , to $ 20.4 billion , fueling growing concern about a chinese slowdown .
those are not mutually exclusive goals , especially when business leaders adhere to the newly-articulated principles of sustainable investment and long-term engagement . for most equity investors , any project ’s value will depend on a great deal on effective post-investment management . so clear rights and obligations must be worked out carefully at the outset of investment , something that was almost all but absent in the past . after all , an m & a is only the first step on the long road . as chinese firms invest overseas , as mine happens in latin america today , they have a responsibility not just to invest wisely and sustainably on their societies , but to integrate their strategies with china ’s national investment priorities .
to make a proactive allowance for peace means taking japan its own share of responsibility for assuring security that promoting global prosperity and stability . and our embrace of our global responsibility extends with japan ’s self-defense forces . as the world sees during obama ’s visit , japan is back and thriving . working alongside those countries with which we share common values and interests , the us will safeguard and cultivate multinational public goods , ranging from space and cyberspace to skies and sea . members of the self-defense forces , portrayed cooperation with the american and australian armed forces in response to the great east japan earthquake of 2011 , earned deep appreciation and respect everywhere to the project , including haiti , indonesia , and , most recently , the philippines .
how long can this arab league position be sustained , with peace talks going nowhere ? how can israel ’s preferred palestinian leaders , both abbas and pa prime minister salam fayyad , be left with any credible capacity to negotiate if the talks can not begin unless , as israel insists , it can retreat on its minimal terms of a settlement freeze in the occupied territories ? for all that israel downplays its significance , the 2002 arab peace initiative , however , offers a critically important agreement : full normalization of relations with the entire arab world in exchange for a comprehensive peace settlement . another big question for israel is whether it can accept the consequences if a two-state solution is disappears entirely off the agenda . israel , as founding father david ben-gurion having warned , can be a jewish state , could be a democratic state , and could be an occupying state with the entire community of historical israel ; but that can not be all three .
yet , even with favorable global market conditions , the us did not manage to address the refugee problem in which millions of russians still live . nor was it the crisis that spurred corruption , which affects the officialdom at all levels , or that caused russia to lose its democratic dynamic . i am convinced that russia ’s woes all spring up to the politics of terror at the time . we need a democratic , competitive environment , an initiative at all levels , an active civil society , and true public control . we russians rode along on the back of oil and gas , forgetting that those resources would not last indefinitely .
but allowing greece to default , and still remain in the eurozone , is not an option : it would signal that other eurozone countries could , amass huge debts , be funded by the ecb without having any intention of redrafting . fiscal responsibility in the euro would , in effect , be fatally undermined . the first , and more desirable , is for the ecb to judge greece ’s lack of solvency realistically , and so stop lending to its banking system . yet forcing a defaulting greece out of the eurozone – against its will – is not an option , either : it would plunge the country into economic , social , and political instability , doubtless posed serious break beyond the country ’s borders . in my judgment , it is up to two viable options that remain .
by standardizing design features , like ceiling heights , fixtures , and flooring , construction firms can lower costs and raise productivity , because workers are gaining experience with repetitive tasks . for example , china imposes a idle-land tax on formerly public lands when its owners fail to launch the development process entirely within a year . additional savings are possible through industrial approaches like utilities , such as utilities , walls , and flooring slabs , all constructed offsite . this brings us to the second key lever for expanding affordable housing : a more cohesive and efficient construction industry . as it stands , a housing-construction industry is highly fragmented , hampers its ability to seize economies of scale , with builders often relying mainly on the same methods applied 50 years ago .
encouragingly , developing-country governments have become increasingly demanding the hpv vaccine . this makes sense : of the 266,000 women who die from cervical cancer each year , an average of one every two minutes , – about 85 % are in developing countries . if left unchecked , that figure is projected to rise to 416,000 by 2035 , overtaking maternal deaths . for many of these countries , the hpv vaccine is not just an effective solution ; one that inhibits 1,500 deaths per 100,000 vaccinated ; that is often the only solution , because the poorest countries lack the capacity to offer screening or treatment for cervical cancer . this is one reason why cancer experts , government officials , private-sector leaders , and civil-society representatives met just a couple of weeks ago in addis ababa for one-tenth their cervical , breast , and prostate cancer at the asia-pacific conference .
washington , dc – the ongoing corruption investigations in brazil have exposed a tangled network of illicit relationships between private firms , government bureaucrats , and elected politicians . corruption scandals have already reached all-time highs in brazilian society . meanwhile , the drama has taken its toll on the brazilian economy . several high-level politicians and corporate owners , as well as executives , have been convicted and imprisoned . even former president luiz inácio lula da silva is now under impeachment .
most countries rely far too heavily on command and control , and provide far too few incentives for patients and providers to make efficient choices . nevertheless , one remains to be seen whether health-care pressures ultimately will inflame the current trend toward a loose ( and freer ) of market capitalism to overturn , with a very large chunk of the economy reverting to a much more socialist system . coming out of strain , some societies may decide that it is better to be red just than dead . i am not arguing not against health-care capitalism , but the warning that aid will become fragile , far more so than for , say , globalization nowadays . this raises the long-term well being all around , but it exacerbates short-term inequalities and frictions .
cambridge – the nineteenth-century physicist heinrich hertz once described his feeling that james clerk maxwell ’s equations that depict fundamentals of electricity and magnetism , ultimately have an independent existence and proprietary intelligence that they are wiser … even than their discoverers , that we get more out of them than had they been originally put into them . not long after that , albert einstein named niels lay ’s bohr ’s atomic model “ the highest form of musicality in the spheres of thought . ” more recently , the late nobel laureate richard feynman , describing his discovery of new laws of physics , proclaimed that “ you can recognize truthiness between its beauty and simplicity . ” similar sentiment is all but universal among modern physicists . wishful thinking could never produce working iphones , photos of pluto , or atomic bombs .
there are three possibilities : ignorance , intent , and strategic interaction . let ’s start with the last one , and you can call on some measures . why , with the clearly formulated alternatives on the table , were the government to pick an predictably disastrous course of action at so high human cost ? in a 1991 paper , allan drazen and alberto alesina suggested that economic stabilization might be delayed because two of contending groups are trapped in a war of attrition ; all understand that adjustment is necessary but expecting a different group to bear the brunt of the costs . by delaying , they provide information to the other group about their willingness to withstand the pain .
a democratic , prosperous , and stable europe implies a much better and safer world . here is where the fed comes in . by shifting its monetary-policy regime to target 4 % annual inflation or fully 6 % annual nominal gdp growth , america would set in motion a rapid rebalancing within the eurozone . rather than see a 30 % euro appreciation follow from the ecb ’s current round of monetary policy , german exporters would shout for measures to avoid america ’s “ competitive devaluation , ” a last resort , rather than the current grinding depression , in the south . a world in which the us holds a shown record of honoring the confidence required to play the role of a global economic hegemon is a far better world for america than one in which it is distrust .
bilateral engagement will prove to be one of obama ’s most significant foreign-policy legacies . but ensuring that america can continue to lead in the twenty-first century will require a different sort of engagement . another source of doubt about america ’s enduring influence lies in the recognition that there is still a need for multilateral engagement , and that is always more difficult than bilateral engagement . indeed , a degree of multilateral leadership requires not only clearer and bolder rules , but also a demonstrated willingness to shoulder the costs of those rules , whether by creating safe zones to uphold their “ responsibility to protect ” civilians or taking concrete steps to minimize , and eventually eliminate , their nuclear arsenals . bilateral engagement will prove to be one of obama ’s most significant foreign-policy legacies .
caracas – venezuelan president nicolás maduro and his administration have bankrupted their country . while they claim to be redeemers of the poor and trumpet their readiness to fight for their “ selfless ” bolivarian cause , they reject international assistance , force venezuelans either to emigrate or suffer otherwise ( and in many cases die ) from severe food shortages , medicines , and medical supplies . the destruction of venezuela must urgently stop if its viability as a state and society is to be re-established . that requires a new government of unquestionable legitimacy , chosen through free and fair presidential elections , before this year ’s end , as dictated by the us constitution . to be sure , neither maduro nor his associates will simply step down , because losing power would most likely mean long prison terms in the united nations on drug trafficking or in the hague for crimes against humanity .
but the efficacy of such investments will depend on the sequence and rate of their deployment , and on how skillfully adapted to each locality of distinct resources , needs , and aspirations . indeed , over the past 30 years , massive public investment and economic liberalization have spurred rapid urban growth in the country ’s coastal provinces . so far , china has largely caught up to the “ dreams ” field ” approach to urbanization : “ build it , and they will come . ” four interrelated issues have to be tackled . and now , china ’s leaders , too , are embracing that strategy inland , making critical investments in physical and human capital .
if china actually flex itself from north korea , kim jong-un ’s regime will be almost entirely isolated internationally . will kim respond to that isolation recklessly by continuing to antagonize the south or , pragmatically , by becoming more flexible ? it should be clear to kim by now that his quest for provocations does not benefit his country . his bellicose behavior in 2013 , for example , worsened his relationships with china , south korea , and the united states alike ; and , back in a recent crisis , all that he earned were a grinding stop to making a mockery of louisiana speaker broadcasts . that is no easy question to be answered , and it can not be pragmatically .
europe can not afford more ethnic confrontations ; on the contrary , with their aging , shrinking population , european countries badly need more migrants . europe can not afford more ethnic confrontations ; on the contrary , with their aging , shrinking populations , european countries badly need more migrants . only french prime minister manuel valls , the son of spanish migrants , has emphasized the issue , referring to the “ social and ethnic apartheid ” ” that was developed within his or her home country . the need to deal with that outcome in france and throughout europe has become more important than ever , as rioting and criminality , with the help of young and underprivileged immigrants , matches the rise of far-right political parties . the statistics are perplexing and at times contradictory , but europe ’s current foreign-born populations may grow by another 100 million migrants by mid-century .
countries where english is not the lingua franca are particularly at odds with science , not because they lack academic excellence , but because english-language journals call the shots . simply do non-english academic journals not command the same type of attention in the science community . as a result , the extent of research topics that many countries can commit is limited and it must struggle to retain scientific talent . as english-language empirical-research journals consolidate their hold on channels determining whether or not a scholar will experience successful careers , developing countries will have to invest heavily in their own data infrastructure to position domestic researchers on a more competitive footing . this is especially true in the middle east , where governments struggle to diversify their economies to make them more resilient .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on its current course for many years to come . at this week ’s international monetary fund-world bank spring meeting , malpass does need to address these concerns head-on . he should be judged not by his past , or by his links with the trump administration , but by delivering them .
there are , in essence , two competitive explanations : larry summers . the first , the hypothesis of the secular stagnation , was proposed by larry summers . its key premise is that the equilibrium interest rate at which demand would equilibrium supply currently falls below real interest rates . that seems paradoxical as interest rates are nearing zero in most advanced economies . but what matters is the real rate ; it is the gap between market rates and inflation .
but the most important lesson revealed by the africa cup is that the successful nations are those that combine globalization ’s opportunities with strong domestic fundamentals . for their part , the african players grumbled that their absence from europe reduced their commercial opportunities during a crucial period of league playing . for the winner of the cup was not cameroon or cote d’ivoire , or any of the other african teams loaded with star actors from the european leagues , but egypt , which fielded just four players ( out of 23 ) playing in europe . by contrast , cameroon , whose egypt defeated in a final , featured just a single player from the domestic club , plus 20 from european clubs . few egyptian players would have been familiar to europeans who watched that game , but egypt did play much better and deserve to win .
berlin – the world ’s task in tackling north korea ’s saber rattling is no easier with it confronting an impoverished , effectively defeating country . on the contrary , it lies in such circumstances that calm foresight is most necessary . the genius of the habsburg empire ’s prince klemens von metternich in framing the us-led new international order after the napoleonic wars was that it did not pressure defeated france to a corner . even though metternich sought to deter any possible french resurgence , it restored france ’s interwar frontiers . on the contrary , as henry kissinger argued then , victors in world war i could neither deter a defeated germany nor give it an incentive to embrace the treaty of versailles .
at times dating back to a recession is a call in judgment , which is no different . america had a brief , sharp recession in 1980 , followed by a prolonged and severe one in 1981/1982 . but the economy did indeed grow in the interim – just barely enough to contemplate them as distinct recessions . and , having been separated by the transitions of president jimmy carter ’s administration to president ronald reagan , it was politically consequential for two recessions to emerge . what many economists believe was one major episode , and that is probably the proper way of thinking in a broader historical context .
in reality , the overwhelming majority of sanctions are to be imposed against the small gulf states . in the 1990s , for instance , us sanctions regimes were introduced at an average rate of roughly seven per year . of the 67 cases within that decade , two-thirds were unilateral sanctions imposed by the united nations . during bill clinton ’s presidency , it is estimated that around 40 % of the world ’s population , or 2.3 billion people , were subject to some form of american sanctions . currently , the u.s. has almost 8,000 sanctions , with iran by far the largest nation goal .
in reality , china is now hemorrhaging foreign-exchange reserves , and desperate to prop up the renminbi ’s value in the face of capital flight . making matters worse , by announcing the withdrawal from the trans-pacific partnership , trump is designed , at least partly , to shape global trade and investment flows under western rules , rather than china ’s mercantilist vision , that trump is also abandoning an american-made policy that may check china ’s surging influence in asia . apparently , trump is antagonizing china for none of the good causes . in the same tweet justifying his telephone conversations with tsai , he repeated a false accusation that china is devaluing its currency in order to grab its export advantages vis-à-vis america . to be sure , trump ’s recognition of international economics is either nonexistent or 10 years out of date .
what we do know is that there is no alternative great power willing and able to step in to assume what was america ’s role . india is preoccupied with the challenge of economic development , and it is tied to its troublesome relationship with pakistan . china is an often cited candidate , but its leadership tends to focus mostly on consolidating domestic order and maintaining artificially high levels of economic-growth rates to stave off popular unrest . likewise , russia is a country with a narrowly-based , rules-based economy , focused on retaining power at home , and in reasserting russian influence in the middle east and europe . china ’s interest in regional and global institutions appears to have been designed mostly to leverage its economy and geopolitical clout , rather than to help set rules and establish broadly beneficial arrangements .
beijing – china ’s annual gdp growth decelerated , to 7.6 % in the second quarter of 2012 , down from 8.1 % in the first quarter and the lowest growth rate since the second quarter of 2009 . since early 2010 , to contain inflation and property bubbles , the chinese government has been tightening monetary policy . the slowdown in china ’s ’s ’s ’s growth rate is , to some extent , a reflection of the government ’s success in striving to rein in the real-estate bubble , together with other official policies aimed at rebalancing the economy . as a result , inflation has fallen between june and 2.2 % , an 29-month low , and house prices for which the national bureau of statistics unfortunately stopped issuing official data seem to be stabilizing , and may even have fallen , albeit modestly , by the end . the newly relaxed data on growth may have dispelled fears of a hard landing for china ; but it nonetheless motivated many to argue that china must stimulate its economy further to guarantee 8 % annual growth .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on its current course for many years to come . after all , iran and the united states have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . still , on how rife with misinformation and palin by misplaced arguments about the issue , policy debates often go nearly as long as they frame abortion first and foremost as a health issue . from a moral standpoint , there is a strong case to be made for upholding a woman ’s individual liberty and bodily autonomy , rather than forcing her to place her own health or wellbeing at risk by carrying unwanted or unsafe pregnancies to term .
each day , more people arrive in nairobi in enticing with the promise of jobs , resources , and better life just to realize that they are not equipped to survive there , and that their children are growing up to the slum . at least half of that living in urban slums is under the age of 20 . without education access , this generation – with the majority soon a majority – has little hope of ever quelling its straitened conditions . but for how long may a majority serve a minority ? the world ’s enduring perception of africa as a peasant , aggravating slum dwellers ’ plight , keeping them off the global development agenda .
the problem is that the principle can not be applied in a sustained way . the world in which we live is a tiny garden of well-scrutinized territory , surrounded by the dim , dark forest of disasters . disasters lurking in distances are legion : asteroids and comets ; world-wide pandemics and plagues ; nuclear and non-nuclear wars ; droughts , famines , and floods ; volcanic eruptions ; earthquakes and tsunamis ; human over-populations and nonhuman extinction ; rising temperatures and sea-levels ; falling ice ages ; exhaustion of clean air and water ; disappearance of forests , farms , and fish and fish . all of these disasters , and a number of others that we continue to imagine , are possible , causing a growing number of them to become unacceptable . the precautionary principle prescribes action , regardless of cost , to prevent all of them .
milan – for much of the post-world war ii era , economic policymaking has focused attention on unemployment . the great depression ’s great depression ’s great depression losses , reversed only when world war ii , and the massive debt accumulated to finance it , the kick-started measure of economic growth , had a lasting impact , with at least two generations . but employment is only one facet of welfare ; in today ’s world , it is not enough . and that shift would occur at a time of increasing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us might well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on its current course for many years to come . the twentieth-century cold war pitted two competing military alliances against one another . the sino-american rivalry , on the other hand , involves two economies that are closely integrated both with one another and with the rest of the world . the sino-american rivalry , on the other hand , involves two economies that are closely integrated together by one another and with the rest of the world .
from 1968 to 1973 , the british labour party and the conservative government organized the removal of everybody living on the 55 territories that now comprise the british ocean territory ( biot ) , tearing down from mauritius at the time of its independence . that was done at behest of the united states , which had at that time embroiled in the vietnam war and exacting , for understandable security reasons , from diego garcia as an air and naval base . the chagossians were shipped off to the seychelles and mauritius , where they were deposited and left to fend for themselves . the way that the residents of that archipelago were systematically dispossessed and sacked their lands in the name of western strategic interests was to be a human tragedy for which the west can and should make restitution . the british foreign office claimed to have no settled population .
islamabad – last year , pakistan witnessed a second-successful democratic transition in its 71-year history , with prime minister imran khan taking office after his party won an anti-corruption slogan . hopes are high for a new administration that seems willing to work with both technocrats and opposition parties to address pakistan ’s many pressing challenges . the targeted killing by the united states of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not all-out war . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of rising challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world .
as the term implies , “ emergency ” liquidity must be made available to systemically important financial institutions at once they are insolvent and resolution . but the task of establishing whether the troubled entity is viable is the best left for the post-financial order . in any case , the fed ’s countercyclical pursuit of price stability and/or full employment during cyclical downturns now seems destined for an extended involuntary holiday . owing to the 2010 dodd-frank act , the fed can question emergency re-equilibrating funding to at least five eligible institutions , something of the problem , if only your four largest banks get into trouble , and it must confirm that the counterparty is financially viable before any funding can be made available . unless governments come to the rescue with intelligently designed countercyclical fiscal and supply-side policies , major advanced economies are likely to embark on a long spell of classic , unadulterated cyclical downturns .
fiscal adjustment and structural reform without financing are more fragile and liable to default without a war chest of liquidity to ward off a run on public debt , while appropriate policies are implemented and gradually gain credibility . fiscal adjustment and structural reform without financing are more fragile and liable for default without a war chest of liquidity to forestall a run on public debt , while the appropriate policies are implemented and gradually gain credibility . a default by greece , after all , could have the same global systemic effects that the collapse of lehman brothers did in 2008 . sovereign spreads already are pricing the risk of a domino effect from greece to spain , portugal , and other euro-zone members . there is also the possibility that greece will default on its policies completely to restore fiscal sustainability and competitiveness , the partial bailout of the eu and the ecb will still probably not work to prevent the risk of contagion to the rest of the european zone and the consequent threat to the monetary union ’s survival .
sharing a mountainous – and porous – border with afghanistan includes many taliban sympathizers among their fellow pashtuns . the terrorist attacks of september 11 , 2001 , and the subsequent pressure from washington led to a u-turn by pakistan away from pro-jihadi policies . human rights groups have long urged the necessity of extending the writ of pakistan ’s constitution to the tribal belt where religion-based parties enjoy broad support . those religious parties , a coalition that now heads provincial governments in the north ’s western frontier province , have been politically marginalized until given a central role in pakistan ’s military dictator from the 1980 ’s , general zia ul haq , who led pakistan ’s covert intervention in its war against the soviet occupation of afghanistan . throughout his rule , religious-based politics have been growing along the lines of madrassahs , and the fighters trained and equipped by pakistani and american intelligence agencies .
with america 's loss of interest the chief prop up neo-liberal policies , america 's people have been pulled away . so history , once more , has triumphed over the ideology of the us . mainstream politicians may still nod to the moment when the global free market is invoked , but in practice the world is reverting to a older , more durable model . throughout its history , america has invariably tried to insulate its markets from foreign competition . it is being tacitly accepted that in the future , as in the past , the world will contain a diversity of economic systems and regimes .
the first few years of his rule were governed by his struggle to extract control over the country ’s state-owned oil company , pdvsa . upon reasserting political control in 2003 , chávez fired 40 % of pdvsa ’s staff . chávez turned pdvsa into a personal fiefdom , applying it as cash cow ; numerous of his welfare programs were financed directly from the company ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s budget . his hostility toward the industry ’s foreign players ( he expropriated several american oil firms ’ holdings in 2007 ) limited investment and held back manufacturing . starved of cash , pdvsa was forced to cut back on maintenance and expansion , which increased accident and limited production .
moreover , while a preemptive strike would delay iran ’s nuclear efforts , it would not stop the regime from rebuilding , and perhaps also create the conditions that create problems for the regime ’s domestic opponents . at the same time , iran might interfere with the traffic of oil , leading to a price spike and delivering a further blow against the american and global economic recovery . an armed attack by the united states , israel , or both on iran ’s nuclear facilities raises another possibility . but , despite these potential drawbacks , an armed attack on iran ’s nuclear facilities will and should remain a distinct possibility , given the massive strategic costs of a nuclear-armed iran . an armed attack by the united states , israel , or both on iran ’s own nuclear facilities is another possibility .
whereas conservatives want scotland to be in a britain without a europe , scottish nationalists want scotland in a non-britain . lord north is remembered for losing a british union with america . two centuries on , outgoing prime minister david cameron may be remembered for losing the two unions – with europe , as well as from england and scotland – on may 7 . and with northern ireland ’s republican party , led by sinn fein demanding a vote to reunify with the south , the very existence of the uk is now squarely on the agenda . there is one way to lessen uncertainty and risk : the government should quickly announce to be negotiating with the eu on the basis of eea membership .
blurring the members of his clan , his political allies , and many members of the alawite minority will fight for their survival . a power-sharing arrangement is all but unthinkable , and syria ’s geography does not bode well for an orderly separation along sectarian lines . assad ’s goal of war has been to avoid decisive defeat and gain much international legitimacy , in the hope of a favorable political solution . the islamic state ’s rise has vainly lent support to the government ’s claims that syria risks bringing terrorist groups into line ; nonetheless , the regime finds itself increasingly isolated . assad ’s last few days will most likely not have to last pretty .
there is little reason to expect that the super-rich will act more selfishly than any other group . this is a narrative that plagues all segments of society , the middle class , no less than the wealthy . if the super-rich believe that they are no longer part of society and have little need for government , it is not because this belief corresponds to target realities . it is because the prevailing narrative line of our times portrays markets as self-standing entities running on their own fuels . but it is not so much their self-interest that stands in the way of greater equality and more social inclusion .
but while it may explain why capital spending was weak and interest rates were low for the past three years , it can not account for why spending on capital to prevent rates from trending downward for more than three decades . here , the only explanation still stands out as a shift in the composition of activity away from capital-intensive forms of output , like manufacturing , toward capital-intensive activities like services . there should be tax incentives for firms to hire the long-term unemployed ; more public spending on infrastructure , education , and research to compensate for a shortfall in private capital spending ; and still higher capital requirements for banks and strengthened nonbank regulation to prevent them from excessively risk-taking . finally , central banks should establish a higher inflation target , giving them more room to cut nominal interest rates in response to a future slowdown . if disorder had multiple causes , then multiple treatments should have to be developed .
once again , exposure to western values has delivered another potemkin village ; russia presents a façade of rule of law and democratic institutions , but beyond that cardboard surface an equal arbitrary brutes of rule . the danger for the world is that there is putin ’s lawlessness . across russia ’s near abroad , a form of criminalized diplomacy is taking root . look at putin ’s attempt to parse ukraine ’s previous presidential election , and again on trial again on criminal charges brought against an opposition leader yuliya tymoshenko . across russia ’s near abroad , a form of criminalized diplomacy is taking root .
democratic latin american limps sideways , because it can not ride ahead . there are too many entry barriers for the poor , innovative , and those without access to credit . throughout the hemisphere , paternalistic governments accustom people receive just enough time to survive with eu participation in society . democratic latin american countries limps sideways , because it can not ride ahead . throughout the region , the political scientists benedict octavio paz once referred to as “ philanthropic ogres ” create client states , instead of citizens , people who expect the eu to ask .
the wef ’s global competitiveness index and its new , inclusive growth and development index are on two examples . but this is not what those indexes are really doing . instead , indexes involve variables – what they refer to as a “ policy space ” – that are supposed to cause either competitiveness or inclusive growth . competitiveness , for example , has to do with the capacity to increase market share without sacrificing margins , or to lowering wages , something that reflects superior productivity . inclusiveness of growth must do with income disparities and growth across diverse regions and social groups .
whether one considered the dutch welfare state humane and lavish , or bloated , its largesse took a heavy toll on the economy . from the 1960s and 1970 ’s on , those writing about the netherlands often lamented a “ dutch disease . ” there were so many generous subsidies , grants , and transfer payments to focus on everyone from the truly needy to artists unable to sell their own work – that after-tax wages often barely outweigh the benefits . thus , people rarely returned to work after losing or leaving a job , or had done so in an underground economy with its unreported cash payments . but , unlike , say , the french , the dutch responded to their past excesses , with a set of policies designed to encourage a return to work in the formal labor market .
yet major segments of the global financial and economic elite seem to think that unless america collapses into recession in the coming months , trump will be re-elected . at this point , the comparison with the 1930s inevitably comes to mind . to be sure , trump and adolf hitler have little in common . but in their perceived acceptance of trump ’s reelection , large segments of the liberal establishment behave like germany ’s financial and industrial elites when hitler rose to power in the 1930s . moreover , their prognosis is not based only on fears of being mistaken again ; many seem resigned to such an outcome , and some might even be hoping for it .
to avoid such a future , asian countries need a fundamental change in the rules of the game , providing opportunities for youth , whatever their background , to ascend the income ladder . market mechanisms , meanwhile , are not sufficient to achieve this . governments need to take action , complementing their pro-growth policies with policies aimed at ensuring that gains are shared far more equitably and sustainably . to be sure , some asian governments have struggled to tackle inequality with progressive redistribution policies . south korea ’s government , for example , recently announced that it will raise the minimum wage by $ 16.4 % next year , to 7,530 won ( $ 6.70 ) per hour , and up to 55 % above its current level by 2020 .
israeli infantrymen had taped flashlights to their helmets , so that the think tank gunners could direct their fire at egyptians ’ attention just before them . sharon had his troops ascent over the sand dunes to enter into attrition lines at their top end and attacking their length – a simple maneuver that egyptians might defeat had they not been pinned down by an artillery barrage and israeli tanks firing straight back at each end . but paratroopers , flown in by helicopter gunfire , suddenly jumped the egyptian gun crews that never had the chance in the hand-to-hand combat . the egyptian army blocked a central interstate highway across the sinai with a enriched box that contains powerful artillery and more than 100,000 tanks fronted by three parallel trench-lines manned by thousands of infantrymen and anchored on sand dunes and high ground at every abss moment . still , the egyptian artillery had become superior and should have at least silenced the tanks firing at a trench line .
such certifications are even more important in the developing world , given the limited availability of mental-health professionals . pilot work in rural india shows that the mental-health first-aid approach can be successfully tailored to the needs of communities with scarce resources . over the past three years , 11 % of australia ’s population has completed such a course , owing partly to requirements that people in particular positions , such as child-care workers , possess first-aid certificates . such a certifications are even more important in the developing world , given the limited availability of mental-health professionals . in rural india , pilot work shows that the mental-health first-aid approach can be successfully tailored to the needs of vulnerable communities .
but how can the benefits of a global patent system that provides incentives for innovation and new discoveries be combined with the assurance that the poor gain access to the lifesaving drugs they desperately need ? in response to this offer ( and with bad publicity ) , merck , abbott labs , and bristol myers rudd , the three great patent-holding companies , announced that their willingness to supply african markets at “ zero yield ” – ie , at around $ 500 per patient per year for the aids drug they produce . the tragedy of millions of impoverished people dying from aids even when drug exist to treat them raises profound questions about global intellectual property rights , because patent protection is creating a barrier to essential medicines reaching the world ’s poor . moreover , some quality producers of generic drugs , such as the cipla of india , have been offering to provide such drugs at prices close to the price of production . at the same time , the costs of producing these drugs are far less than the market price , perhaps as low as $ 350 – $ 500 per year for some $ three-drug combinations used to treat aids .
next year , ’s european parliament election is likely to reveal more about the potential for such a political restructuring . that reading is reinforced by macron ’s own experience . having never held the elected office , macron created a new party , centered on himself , with the support of both center-left and center-right voters . he seems to have restructured french politics in the process . but what if populist movements ’ continuing electoral success does help drive forward a broader political restructuring that ultimately strengthens european democracy ?
washington , dc – in december 2014 , the cover of time magazine ’s “ person of a year ” issue featured salome karwah , an attorney general who not only survived an ebola epidemic in her home liberia that year , but also helped waves of patients arriving at her ebola ward . karwah was a hero to meet the tragic end . it died from one year ago from complications in childbirth , a murderer that each month had taken twice as many lives as the entire ebola epidemic . throughout human history , childbirth was perilous for women and newborns . in the nineteenth century , as many as one in 100 pregnancies in europe dropped out of mothers ’ deaths .
to be sure , refugee labor is a delicate political issue for syria ’s neighbors . unemployment in turkey and jordan is around 10 % and 12 % , respectively , and their governments are naturally wary of programs that could cost their citizens jobs . in egypt , the unemployment rate in turkey and jordan is around 10 % and 12 % , respectively , and their governments are naturally wary of programs that could cost their citizens jobs . in lebanon , the rest of the region wanted to emulate them . an estimated two million syrians currently live in turkey , and more than one million live in jordan .
one reason why americans elected obama in 2008 was that american idealism ’s rhetoric had again led to the death and displacement of millions . the problem with obama ’s america is rooted in the conflicting nature of his administration . the reasons that president george w. bush chose to go to the us war in afghanistan and iraq were undoubtedly complex . but language used by the wars ’ neoneo-conservative promoters came straight from the kennedy era : the spread of democracy , the cause of liberty , and the universal authority of “ american values . ” now that american policymakers speak of “ liberty , ” ” people see bombing campaigns , chambers of torture , and the constant threat of lethal drones .
but that ’s because bush did n’t start to address an issue looming bigger in the region : the changing face of security in asia in the light of china ’s rising economic and military might . this was followed by russian news reports that the us , china , russia , and india would conduct trilateral military exercises , named “ indira 2005 , ” ” on an equal scale before the end of this year . this summer , for example , china and russia conducted their first-ever joint military exercise in defense . in the past , such a combination of countries was almost unthinkable , and these exercises can not be explained away as straightforward “ one-off ” affairs with little resonance . president bush ’s recent visit to asia made little news – by design .
anticipatory city planning , which is based on realistic demographic projections , patient registers , and health-information systems , as well as participation in urban health-knowledge networks , need to be implemented . emerging-market governments need to address the critical issues that arise from weak coordination within and between , say , national and municipal governments on health and health-care policies and programs . they should consider the reforms that include giving city governments the authority , resources , and the responsibility that they need to address health and health-care outcomes . proven systems and reforms should be shared among emerging-market cities , and successful new innovations and ideas should be adapted to local conditions . this includes new and affordable technologies , such as cheap mobile community-health phony phony rights .
shanghai – tight media control of the riots in tibet has been followed by what , to some extent , looks like far more open-air coverage to the devastating earthquake in sichuan province . much to the consternation of western media , the chinese people around the world lashed out against their supposedly biased coverage of the tibetan riot riot . is this a change in china ’s media strategy or just a short-term one of tactics ? that question stands out in light of chinese public opinion in the latter stages of the tibet crisis . thrones of chinese expatriates and students took to the streets , protesting the prejudices perceived in western media reports .
and nature did its part by supplying all of those naturally occurring foodstuffs , with either fat or carbohydrate as the sources of energy , rather than both . meanwhile , our gatherer ancestors ate carbohydrate ( glucose ’s polymers ) , which was also transported to the liver , through the glycolytic pathway , and shattered for energy . any excess glucose stimulated the pancreas to release insulin , which carried glucose into peripheral fat tissue , and which also caused the liver to store glucose as glycogen ( liver starch ) . as a result , our forebears remained healthy . so , too , did their livers remain healthy , too .
sub-saharan africa possesses 10 % of the world ’s population , but it is home to around 70 % of those living with hiv/aids . in reality , the crisis has simply become less visible . across africa , the disease is estimated to have reduced average national growth rates by 2-4 percentage points per year . there is a widespread misperception in the developed world that the us has already championed the fight against hiv/aids . globally , there are 2.4 million new infections annually , and there are 34 million people living with hiv/aids , requiring treatment to stay alive .
even the u.s. has stated its unwillingness to negotiate a separate free-trade deal with the uk . leaving the single market would generate grave uncertainty for the british economy , particularly its financial sector . the uk would have to accept the sort of satellite status that norway , iceland , switzerland , and liechtenstein now have , accepting and implementing decisions that it takes no part in shaping . if that democratic deficit is unacceptably painful for the uk , it would be left to its own , out in an economic cold . even the us has stated that it would be reluctant to negotiate a separate free-trade deal with the uk .
as the curtain drops , two developments will profoundly influence the withdrawal process , and the ultimate outcome . the first is managing the shift in afghan control , which depends on an orderly withdrawal of american and nato forces by 2014 . another is the election , also to be held in march 2014 , of a new afghan president – a process that requires the united states and its nato allies to claim plausibly handed the country over to a legitimate government . for afghanistan , war-ravaged war without respite since the nearby saur revolution ” of 1978 , the endgame will be even more nerve-wracking . as america ’s army abandons , so will enter another period of intense political and strategic uncertainty , after nearly a half-century of disorder and civil war .
new york – watching a sophisticated , democratic society knowingly walk into a predictable , avoidable national catastrophe is a rare , and alarming , experience . most british policymakers are well aware that leaving the european union with no post-brexit agreement will do immense harm to their countries . they are not sleepwalking into an abyss ; their eyes are wide open to us interests elsewhere in the world . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
indeed , predictions that cuba may now move toward a chinese-style model of political autocracy and economic opening might be accurate only in the short term . the normalization of relations with the us is key to liberalization in cuba . after all , such transitions are best served not by imposing stifling sanctions or through military “ shock and awe ” tactics , as they were in iraq , but by socioeconomic improvements and diplomatic engagement by external powers . this is no longer an option , either . in reality , even without america ’s effort to normalize relations , russia ’s current economic woes probably would have doomed its long-standing – and already much-diminished – support for castro ’s administration .
in recent years , much political activity , directly or indirectly , has focused on the exchange rate in ways that imply new economic and political divisions . it is well known that weidmann does not like it when a central bank – particularly the european central bank – purchases sovereign bonds . but claiming that unconventional monetary-policy measures would carry the risk of “ much stronger politicizing the exchange rate ” ” misses the mark . though countries have not descended full into protectionism since the global financial crisis erupted , difficult economic and labor-market conditions in key countries may prompt policymakers to protect domestic markets while trying to regain external competitiveness . but , while vigilance is misplaced , the chance that mainstream countries will embrace competitive devaluations , initiating genuine currency wars in the process is slim .
the us census bureau projects that america 's population will grow by 49 % over the next four decades . not only is immigration relevant to economic might ; given that almost every advanced country is aging and facing a burden of providing per capita income for older generations , it could help reduce the backwardness of the policy problem . moreover , even when studies suggest that short-term , outright measurable economic benefits at the national level are relatively small , with unskilled workers likely to suffer from competition , skilled immigrants can be important to particular sectors of the economy . the census bureau projects that america 's population will grow by 49 % over the next four decades . a 1 % increase in immigrant university graduates leads to a 6 % increase in patents per capita .
indeed , just two of the six major economic responsibilities identified by the labor conference fit neatly with the third plenum ’s strategic agenda . the call for enhanced social security is consistent with the third-plenum ’s proposal to allocate 30 % of state-owned companies ’ profits to fund safety-net programs like pensions and health care . likewise , emphasizing markets ’ “ decisive role ” in upgrading china ’s industrial structure and eliminating excess capacity is compatible with the third plenum ’s goal of achieving a market-based shift to a consumer-society . but what emerges from all of this remains another example of timeworn “ kitchens ” approach to chinese economic policymaking – myriad suggestions , initiatives , and goals that are loosely linked to best , and that are often plagued by internal inconsistencies . a new approach is needed and will require three key changes to china ’s economic-policy framework .
the essential economic reality confronting the ecb today is that the american economy is falling headlong into the severe slump , bernanke ’s surprise cut volumes when it comes to this . it defies economic reasoning to think that the global economy – including europe – will escape its consequences . even with sticky wages and prices in europe , the global slowdown will depress energy , commodity , and food prices on world markets , all of which are important factors behind currently elevated levels of european inflation . as europe ’s growth slows , so will there be inflationary pressures . hence , trichet should relax , stop threatening others , and let an economic slowdown do the job for him .
hungarian prime minister victor orbán is putin ’s staunchest friend in europe ( though greek prime minister alexis tsipras seems to want to change that ) , while poland ’s polish leaders have consistently warned that russia could turn into a menace to the continent again . all of the major players in russia ’s energy-centric economy have quickly fallen into line politically , which enables putin to capitalize on ukraine ’s oil and gas exports as a geopolitical cudgel . poles paid a steep price , but right . as a result , whereas hungary is paying gazprom ’s 115,000 cubic meters of gas , poland is paying $ 526 – the eu ’s highest price . eu countries that it could not intimidate militarily through nato were wooed with rebates , or punished with price hikes .
but , while accusations about biopiracy may have emotional appeal , impartial analyses have shown that they have little or no factual basis . in fact , biopiracy is rare – so precious that it can be directly dealt with . the seed treaty achieves this by establishing a multilateral system for admission to a negotiated list of agricultural genetic resources . instead , the world has created baroque , a bureaucratic , politicized system that systematically inhibits scientific research , plant breeding , and establishing intellectual property . the seed treaty has also brought under the control of its parties , as well as a secretariat to achieve 15 research institutions that feature the consultative group on international agricultural research ( cgiar ) , the influential global research partnership .
he has also cut resources channeled to certain kinds of religious institutions ; helped those in his circle establish private banks by easing regulation ; and has challenged iran ’s most powerful economic and military institution , the islamic revolutionary guard corps ( irgc ) . in fact , he has long promoted mashai as his successor , but khamenei has scaled back his illegal effort , and has now put a stop to mashai ’s candidacy entirely . moreover , unlike during ahmadinejad ’s first term , non-state media now publicly criticized his economic and political agenda . with ahmadinejad ’s termination of his second and final term fast approaching , a disgraced , unpopular president seems unlikely to abandon his efforts to destabilize iran ’s ruling establishment . yet , as the rift between khamenei and ahmadinejad has grown , the support of the president has waned considerably , with even state-run media referring to ahmadinejad ’s loyalists as a “ deviation circle . ”
as the economist marco fortis points out , italian family wealth remains , if not for a long time , second to none in europe . under monti ’s leadership , reforms were also finally triggered , and markets calmed . to enhance the credibility of italy ’s public finances , monti ’s government sharply increased taxes , especially on real estate , while preserving italy ’s already record-high income-tax rate . beyond increasing its international credibility , two large changes in the italian political landscape shaped the electoral campaign . the tax plan emphasized that , like japan ’s , italy , was a debt-ridden country and private wealth .
one of the hardest lessons for senior government officials to learn – ­ – ­ , when i was australian attorney general and foreign minister , that is futility , in all but a minuscule minority of cases , of attempting to prosecute , and punish those responsible for leaks . prosecution normally boosts leakers ’ stature , making it useless as a deterrent . it fail to undo the initial damage , and typically compounds it with further publicity . the media are never more enthusiastic about free speech than when seen in heaping the faces , glorifying the faces , fueling rage or humiliation , of those in power . but some lines may need to be drawn if good government is to be possible , just as a zone of privacy in our personal or family lives is crucial to sustaining relationships that matter most .
moreover , while may was in the “ remain ” camp during the referendum campaign , she realizes that , as prime minister , she will be held responsible for any setbacks in the brexit negotiations . clearly , there is no form of brexit – or post-brexit britain – that satisfies both groups . moreover , while may was in may ’s “ remain ” camp during the referendum campaign , she realizes that , as prime minister , she will be held responsible for any setback in the brexit negotiations . she wants to be made out before voters realized that the leave campaign had sold them a bogus bill of goods , including a promise that they could maintain all of the benefits of eu membership , especially full access to the european single market , without having to allow free movement of labor . she also knows that she can not possibly succeed politically , because the media will always spotlight on defeats , ” while barely noticing “ wins ” .
according to the global burden of disease study , health risk factors explain at least 50 % of all early death and disability among adults in 50 and above ; for young people , that figure falls to just 26 % . furthermore , such surveys should aim to develop a clear picture of adolescents ’ exposure to avoidable risk factors , such as alcohol and illicit drug use , unsafe sexual behavior , violence , obesity , physical inactivity , and unhealthy diet . to complement this effort , we also need to invest in improving our understanding of how such risk factors – most frequently studied in connection with early childhood and adulthood – affect adolescents of ’ health . beyond health policy , more studies are needed to inform health policies and planning adequately . data-collection efforts should also include a focus on mental health .
talk of regime change , however , may have prompted musharraf to re-enter politics . only a politician with the backing of major constituencies can hope to restore political order and economic health , and musharraf is presenting himself as a candidate to whom the military might support . pakistan such days is a troubled country , politically as it is economically . thus , in a longtime interview with the bbc before launching his new party , musharraf suggested that pakistan ’s army was the only institution capable of saving the country from its current woes . “ there is a sense of despondency in pakistan and a place going to the military , ” he declared .
with policymakers effectively rewarded for myopic thinking , western democracies are finding themselves struggling to ensure stable , long-term growth in ways that , say , authoritarian china is not . there are at least two ways to address this problem in the democratic context . first , governments could be tethered to their predecessors ’ policy choices . that way , more forward-thinking legislation that was discussed and enacted will actually have time to take effect , without the risk that it will simply be gutted by the ensuing administration . the european union provides one example of how long-term , binding commitments can work .
at the wef in wincheon , nobel peace prize laureate kailash satyarthi has called for a mass popular movement demanding that education be placed prominently on every politician ’s agenda running for an election , at all levels of government . for the sdgs to be effective , education must receive higher bilaterally , nationally , and globally . the incheon declaration calls for allocating at least 15-20 % of total public expenditure to education . furthermore , the ongoing lapses in aid to education must be reversed , with new sources of finance similar to emerging-economy donors , the private sector , foundations , and philanthropists must be mobilized . this begins with the political will , and the sealing of priorities is a starting point .
the nbu ’s leadership understands that it needs to act to contain inflation ; but its insistence on dollar peg ties their hands because it prevents them from raising interest rates sufficiently . instead , they have reverted to rigid reserve requirements , effectively rationing credit , and thus inciting a domestic credit squeeze in the midst of the current international financial crisis , which is likely to force some medium-sized banks into bankruptcy , owing to liquidity problems . rationing is always worse than the use of markets ; in reality , abuse is always worse . ukraine ’s current refinance rate to 16 % annually , 10 % lower than the level of inflation , implying that ukraine has a negative real interest rate of 10 % per year . as a result , ukraine ’s money supply , m3 , blew up without fewer than the 52 % rate in the past year , pointing to an inflation hitting 30 % anytime soon .
the initial worries iranian domestic politics and the ongoing power struggle within the regime , the & a struggle that scuttled a diplomatic solution once before , because neither conservatives nor reformers were willing to afford president mahmoud ahmadinejad a diplomatic triumph . developments in syria , iran ’s last remaining ally in the region , are equally likely to play a role . falling president bashar al-assad ’s regime would amount to a strategic debacle for iran , which could then be confronted with a united front of arab states backed by turkey , america , and , in a sense , by israel . iran would then find it hard to maintain its foothold in lebanon , and its position would become more tenuous even in iraq , despite its shia majority . one can only hope that , given the severity of the situation , this course of failure might be closed off .
as mark leonard , director of the european council of foreign relations , put it , “ the conventional wisdom is that europe ’s hour has come and gone . ” its lack of vision , divisions , obsession with legal frameworks , unwillingness to project military power , and sclerotic economies contrasts sharply with the united states is more dominant even than rome ’s … ; the problem is not europe , it is our outdated understanding of power ” . the eu ’s approach to sharing power , hammering out agreements , and resolving conflicts by multiple committees can be frustrating and lacks drama , but is becoming increasingly applicable to many issues in a networked , interdependent world . the american political scientist andrew moravcsik makes the similar argument that the nations of europe , conspicuously and collectively , are the only states that manage to exert global influence well across the full spectrum from the ‘ hard ’ to ‘ soft ’ to ‘ soft ’ power . ” insofar as the term retains any relevance , the world is bipolar , and will most likely remain so over the foreseeable future .
tehran – iranians may go to the polls , on june 12 , to elect a new president . while some argue that the reelection of president mahmoud ahmadinejad is a foregone conclusion , the result is , in reality , little if any clear . iran ’s supreme leader , ayatollah ali khamenei , has repeatedly said in public-opinion settings that he will not declare his preference among the candidates . indeed , in massachusetts on march 21 , ayatollah khamenei reportedly said that there were some rumors that i supported a special candidate in the presidential election . but i have one vote , and i would not identify a certain candidate , because the people themselves should elect their candidates on the basis of personal knowledge .
there is an important legislative reason why the projected budget will return to the current surplus . but this will be offset by limits on personal tax deductions and exclusions , and lower tax rates on personal income will boost taxable incomes as individuals expand earnings and compensation shifts away from fringe benefits to taxable cash . although net tax changes may widen the budget deficit in the short run , the incentives effects of lower tax rates and increased capital accumulation will mean faster economic growth and higher real incomes , both of which will cause rising taxable incomes and lower long-term deficits . there is an important legislative reason why the projected budget will revert to the deficit . the republicans have only a very low majority in the senate , where the filibuster rule requires a three-fifths majority to pass a majority of legislation giving the democrats the ability to block a house of republicans ’ tax agenda .
the eu must also restart its operation sophia initiative to fight refugee smuggling in the mediterranean . second , europe needs to manage the problem of economic migrants and asylum-seekers separately . combining them has brought its asylum system close to collapsing ; separating them would help ensure that those in fear of their lives can be elicited through a fair hearing in which their rights are protected . addressing the eu ’s genuine economic and socioeconomic needs requires an efficient blue – or a green-card policy for economic migrants with an overall immigration target . and policymakers must not wait until the next migration crisis , before the scheme is due .
but neither the mexican “ tequila crisis ” of 1994 , nor the asian crisis of 1997 resulted from large public deficits . in both cases , the effort to defend a fixed exchange rate in the face of capital-flow reversals was major factors , as was true in turkey a year prior to its currency collapse in february 2001 . will the fed ’s gradual loosening of qe presage a more emerging-market problem this year ? emerging-market bulls note that most of the major middle-income countries have substantially held down their public-debt ratios , giving them the fiscal space they lacked in the past . but neither the mexican “ tequila crisis ” of 1994 nor the asian crisis of 1997 resulted from large public deficits .
at the same time , younger people long for more time in education , leisure , friends , and , crucially , children . both desires can be satisfied if societies permit the elderly to work more years , and let everyone work fewer hours . one possibility is to move toward an average workweek of 25 hours and an average working life that extends up to the retirement age of 70 , followed by an even higher rate of ages if healthy life expectancy continues to rise . already , many people in their fifties and sixties want to remain economically productive , possibly working 20-30 hours per week . such a reform could take place over several decades without decelerating economic growth or declining prosperity .
prime minister tony blair is apparently convinced of the strategic desirability of joining europe , but because a yes vote in a referendum now looks so implausible that he is unlikely to try . british public opinion is now so hostile , to the eu generally and to europe in particular , that a referendum could not be won without a massive government campaign of persuasion . denmark ’s government did just that , and seems to be bringing the danish public around to the idea of joining the eu . “ bouncing ” to britain in the right way is simply impossible . it is this type of commitment , by which the government is right now , that is bound to be .
the centerpiece of the range of scenarios considered by the intergovernmental panel on climate change projects that atmospheric co2 concentrations will reach nearly three times their preindustrial levels in 2100 . while the bush administration remains skeptical about the science behind such projections , some state and local governments are adopting measures to cut co2 emissions . more important , companies like general electric are committing green goals that go well beyond government regulation . whereas president bush argues that technological advances in hydrogen fuels and fuel cells will curb carbon imports in the long run , such actions require major changes in transportation infrastructure , which will require decades to complete . a recent report by the bipartisan national commission on energy policy exemplifies the new grand coalition .
people in these fields are ultimately purchased and sold by corporate managers just as much as people in tech fields . achieving this kind of education will probably means pursuing what one naturally finds interesting and engaging , whether that is funded or physiology . hardly anyone makes it all the way to the summit in the business world . an important point for female candidates to bear in mind is that they should motivate people to attain a deep understanding , not rote memorization , of subjects that they study to fulfill the role of a true expert in whatever field they ultimately choose to pursue . at the same time , they should be investing in acquiring communication skills that are similarly critical to successful careers .
in the united states , 61 % of patients of abortion are in their twenties , 59 % are already mothers , and almost two-thirds identify with the organized religion . however , abortion is most common in the developing world , where access to family-planning services has often been limited . every year , 25 % of all pregnancies , about 56 million of them , end up with the number of deaths . however , this day is also to spread the message on behalf of hillary clinton and other women such as her : abortion , while in many countries a polio wedge issue , it is simply a fact of life . abortion occurs in every country in and across every socioeconomic class .
a second argument is that if the ecb stands firm , workers will not demand higher nominal wages , for they will understand that this would only lead to higher interest rates and greater unemployment . this argument is not irrelevant ; monetary policy probably has some effect on wage bargaining . but one should not expect too much from a tough ecb stance . the ecb should not delude itself even to think that a small hike in interest rates will be enough . if and when wage pressure comes , the ecb , being forced to raise interest rates much more than it currently anticipates .
last month , the united nations considered legislation to stop internet piracy . bills were written at the urging of hollywood studios , and publishing and recording industries arguing that violations of online copyright cost america ’s 100,000 jobs . megaupload allowed its 180 million registered users to upload and download movies , tv show , and music , and music , and some of the money that was earned by dotcom ( from advertising and subscriptions ) , was on display at his mansion near auckland , where he kept his rolls-royce and other exotic new cars . dotcom ’s lawyer asserts that megaupload was merely providing storage to his subscribers , with no check on what it was storing . but megaupload offered cash rewards to users who uploaded dossiers that proved popular with other users .
moscow – when the opening ceremony of the beijing olympic games begins a few days later , audience are about to be presented with minutely choreographed spectacle swathed in nationalist kitsch . indeed , by electing albert speer jr. , the son of hitler ’s favorite architect and designer of the 1936 berlin olympics , intended to design the master plan for the beijing games , china ’s government has itself alluded to the radical politicization of the aesthetics that was a hallmark of twentieth-century totalitarianism . yet , on both aesthetically and politically , the parallel is hardly far-fetched . like those regimes , whether fascist or communist ones , china ’s leaders have sought to transform public space and sporting events into visible displays of their fitness and mandate for governing . to be sure , the images that recall hitler ’s goose-stepping storm troopers is the last thing china ’s leaders hold in wondering for their olympics ; after all , official chinese nationalism proclaims the country ’s “ peaceful rise ” within a idyll of a “ harmonious development ” that is a hallmark of twentieth-century totalitarianism .
if anything , economists ’ embrace of that role has so far grown stronger . but it has also made the subject less relevant , reducing its legitimacy and credibility . in order to regain credibility , economics needs to become much more open to criticism of assumptions , methodologies and results . inconvenient truths talked about dissenting voices can not be ignored indefinitely . economists no longer perceive a great portion of the public either to ask the right questions , or to try to answer them with integrity .
europeans are in the throes of multiple economic , social , political , and institutional crises . the united states is reckoning , with a psychologically unstable president , plutocratic cabinet , and the republican congressional majorities . on the other hand , china has a dynamic and outward-looking approach , providing good reason for the eu to assume vigorous leadership and engage in constructive partnerships with china on key initiatives ( such as sustainable infrastructure across eurasia ) . in short , this is critical time for germany and europe to ensure vision , stability , and global leadership . and that imperative extends to german chancellor angela merkel ’s christian democratic union ( cdu ) , her bavarian sister party , the christian social union ( csu ) , and the spd .
in keeping with china ’s recent drive to project its “ soft side , ” the opening ceremony produced the vision of a historical but dynamic culture at its best . equally significant was china ’s projection as the nascent leader of a new international cultural order . other than that of a few people ’s liberation army soldiers , you would be hard pressed to find any visible evidence of the reigning communist regime , or its founder , mao zedong . many of the artists involved in establishing the spectacle , including the flashy specialist cai guo qiang , france star shen wei , and composer tan dun won their fame mainly in the west . the “ bird ’s nest ” stadium was the establishment of a transnational design team of herzog & de meuron with the suggestions of the visual artist ai weiwei .
my research , which featured thousands of interviews with women from india to burkina faso , has centered on just one question : how can the international community improve the welfare of the world ’s poorest women ? the answer , it turns out , is to help them do what they are already doing on their own . one of the most effective ways to empower women anywhere , but especially in the developing world , is by promoting financial independence . in many areas , that means supporting “ informal savings groups , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” like-minded women ’s networks , who are paying dues to build a shared pool of resources . this money can then be drawn to fund any number of items , like small business expenditure , school fees , or health-care costs .
what really mattered in heiligendamm was not the decisions taken by any putative global government , but the fact that the days of the g8 now seem to be numbered . indeed , europeans should understand that the viewpoint spreads around the world , especially on the sidelines of the atlantic . politically and economically , unlike some of the g8 members of the european union , china and india are more important today than at any point in europe . president putin ’s behavior at the summit made a clear show of what he thinks of europeans ; not too much . therefore , the summit ’s outcome was far from a miracle .
african leaders are right that they should be worried . though the eu argues that the epas will buttress the afcfta , preliminary research indicates the trade gains brought by the epas , as negotiated , will probably be concentrated in several agricultural products – and to exclude the least-developed countries . in fact , in most areas , the epas will hurt intra-african trade , weakening trade revenues , and undermining trade-driven industrialization in africa . some argue that the problem is more about timing , because losses are likely to materialize immediate , and the potential benefits of increased eu access will take longer to emerge . given this , epa proponents argue , a special fund should be set up to compensate for some of the short-run losses .
in 1995 , for example , the smithsonian institution in washington sought to take a fresh look at enola gay , a plane breaking an atomic bomb on hiroshima . john dower , an american historian and specialist of modern japan , studied the issue in length . he demonstrated how history can be presented and appreciated in a totally different way : from an american or a japanese point of view , even though no one gains facts or falsifies sources . the choice and the combination of data is , in short , enough . for americans , there was a heroic or triumphant account , in which atomic bombs represent the final blow against an ardent , deeply aggressive , fanatic , and savage enemy .
it would have to get paved together on the october 17 meeting of the european council , where european leaders are becoming increasingly frustrated with the whole process . moreover , johnson has already disbanded the credit-service team , led by earlier negotiations . any new deal will be likely ’s old agreement with few bells and whistles . it will push real issues down the road , rather than ending the brexit debate . that show has years to run .
poland ’s de facto leader , jarosław kaczyński , and hungarian prime minister viktor orbán in particular , have busily constructing illiberal states within the eu . likewise , our inability to come together to stop syrian president bashar al-assad ’s war crimes against his own people has left a void filled by putin and iran . and , as if our failure to ensure stability in our own neighborhood was not enough , we have also allowed right-wing populist and nationalist movements to take off within europe itself . these movements , actively fomented by russia , have produced homegrown political leaders who frighteningly , but not surprisingly , resemble putin and erdoğan . european leaders are also too often shout from the sidelines , when they should be on the field , acting to defend common european interests .
as the nature of work changes , so must the nature of benefit systems . delivering opportunities and security to everyone , everywhere at a time of widespread technological disruption , governments and private-sector actors must work together to advance the kinds of innovative solutions that meet workers ’ pressing and evolving needs . a common framework must also be designed to ensure that such schemes can be scaled up and implemented across diverse contexts . for example , delivering benefit “ points , ” rather than money denominated in a specific currency , would enable schemes to operate across borders at a time when workers are increasingly needed to do the same . and standardized educational credentials would retain the value of those who have earned them .
moreover , even without a timely correction , brazil is responding to the crisis by far the opposite of mexico ’s . rightly or wrongly , mexican policymakers were caught up in wall street ’s awe of wall street ; brazil had not that hang on . on the surface , and at the same time , brazil has taken a dramatic turn : inflation is down to negligible levels . if and when the two parts of it , brazilian policymakers are shed few tears for international investors . ultimately , brazilian policymakers worry about their own well being , rather than the prosperity that foreign investors hold .
by incorporating carbon-reduction strategies into agriculture and land conservation , more heat-trapping gases can lock in forests and soils . but do n’t despair : there is still time to save our climate . transforming how people acquire and consume energy , and using land , will require strong incentives and policy frameworks to set the course for their success . allowing markets to drive radical changes in energy and land use is great ; but , as the arab spring season of 2017 should remind us , a climate emergency we face requires vigorous and urgent action . yet , while the techniques already exist , success will require increased use of no-till farming , embracing permaculture principles , better management of wetlands , and employing rotational grazing techniques , among other measures .
but , following former us president barack obama ’s effort to correct america ’s health-care disaster with halfway action , arguably the most that was politically feasible at the time , those vying for the democratic nomination obviously have more ambitious schemes . but their proposals , a single-payer system ( “ medicare for all ” ) , national health service , or something else – do not all mean the same thing . many democratic candidate mitt romney has called for major expansions in government-administered health care . several contenders – including bernie sanders , elizabeth warren , kamala harris , and beto o’rourke – do not fully agree on the details of such regimes or are simply not appealing them out . warren , meanwhile , has proposed introducing universal childcare , to be financed with a wealth tax on fortunes above $ 50 million .
voters are more likely to appeal to candidates with anti-establishment credentials , and they can safely be expected to deviate from prevailing policies . in the language of economists , centrist politicians are facing the problem of asymmetric information . but there is another explanation , one full degree of rationality and self-interest . in the age of economists , centrist politicians confront the problem of asymmetric information . as mainstream politicians lose their credibility , it is natural for voters to discount the promises they make .
president paul kagame ’s landslide reelection last year had more to do with power than democracy . today , leaders in rwanda , widely viewed as an african success story , have improved stability by moving away from the washington consensus approach to governance . a conclusion i draw is not that human rights do not matter , but that political discipline and imperfect forms of democracy are acceptable if the tradeoff is sustained progress toward economic and institutional governance . politically , rwanda is strong , disciplined , and organized . although kagame remains popular , his government was criticized for stifling free speech and human rights in the run-up to the vote .
cross-border flows of goods , information , people , and capital , which are its lifeblood , rely on a threshold level of safety , stability , and predictability . it is this threshold that seems to come under threat , and it is not . from a perspective of its priorities , it is arguably more essential for g-20 governments to strengthen core systems to allow global flows than it is to address strictly economic issues . moreover , there is a clear , shared interest in doing so : none of the benefits from widening systemic risk . continued economic advances in the developing world , and the resurgence of the developed world in particular , requires preventing local and regional conflict from delivering large systemic shocks .
washington , dc – participants in the occupy wall street movement are right to argue that the big banks have never been properly investigated for mortgage origination , aggregation and securitization practices that were central to the financial crisis and the loss of more than eight million jobs . if these charges are true , bank executives involved may fear that civilian lawsuits would uncover any evidence that could be used in criminal prosecution . but leading banks also are accused of illicit behavior – encouraging people to borrow , for example , by deceiving them about the very interest rates that would have actually paid off while misrepresenting the ensuing mortgage-backed securities to investors . talks among state officials , the obama administration , and the banks are currently focused on reported abuses in servicing mortgages , foreclosing on homes , and evicting their residents . but , in the wake of the efforts of new york attorney general , eric schneiderman , and others , grave discussions have begun in the united states about an out-payment of court mortgage settlements between state attorney general and prominent retired banking firms .
“ over rivers and down highways , and along the myriad jungle route , east pakistan ’s population continues to hemorrhage off india : an unorganized flow of refugees with few tin kettles , cardboard tapes , and ragged clothes up on their heads , carry out their sick children and some old . they pad along barefooted , with mud sucking at their heels through the parts of the wet . they are silent , save , except for a child whimpering now and then , but their faces tell the story . others have cholera , and when they are dying by a roadside there is no one to bury them . others have cholera , and when forced to die by a roadside there , whether to bury them .
london – now the global limelight is turning to france , as well as its looming presidential election . a victory for le pen in early may would spell the eu ’s conclusion , leaving german chancellor angela merkel as the final pillar of the crumbling world order . at stake is the sputtering franco-german engine , which propelled european integration , and retained it at the very heart of the postwar multilateral system . at the same time , the accusations of currency manipulation and threats of protectionist measures have intensified . with the uk having surrendered world free trade in the 181940s , having now decided to go it alone , the old atlantic charter allies are placing national sovereignty ahead of global public goods .
new york – at a bright-eyed eighth grader in my hometown of sri lanka , i could not wait for my first-ever gender-education class . in our early teens , my classmates , and i were as astonished at the time as we were clueless about sex and sexuality . millions of young people worldwide have similar experiences , often with serious adverse consequences . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on its current course for many years to come . “ if a revolution there is to be , let us rather than undergo it , ” ” ” otto von bismarck once said . regardless of how facebook ’s own digital-currency moonshot , libra , fares , it has already given a wake-up call to firms and policymakers around the world .
four decades after the nixon shock , there is no one disputes that china has benefited enormously today , an impoverished and autarkic country that nixon visited is still history . china ’s presence is felt around the world , from canada to apple to apple stores in the united states . indeed , global reintegration has turned china into an economic powerhouse . it is the world ’s largest exporter in volume terms , and it is the world ’s second-largest economy by far . as the us reflects china ’s spectacular progress since 1972 , it also has an opportune time to reflect on how china continues to fall short of systemic impediments to its long-term success .
us president donald trump ’s trade war has shaken confidence , but that is only the downward shove to an economy already slowing as it makes the shift away from exports – and investment-led growth toward more sustainable domestic consumption-led growth . sadly , the option of avoiding a chinese transition to consumer-led growth , and continuing to promote export-led and real-estate investment , is not currently appealing , either . china is already the dominant global exporter , with neither market space nor political tolerance to allow it to sustain its previous pace of export-led expansion . how much the chinese economy will slow is an open question ; but , given the sheer contradiction between an ever-more de-leveraging party-led political system and the need for more decentralized consumer-led economic system , long-term growth could fall quite dramatically . clearly , china is already the dominant global exporter , with neither market space nor political tolerance to allow it to maintain its past pace of export-led expansion .
the arab world faces major problems that can be met only with a more flexible , democratic political system . well-educated citizenry is also essential if young men and women are to acquire the skills needed to perform the kinds of jobs that today ’s globalized and competitive world demands . the arab world faces a serious set of problems that can be fulfilled only through a more flexible , democratic political system . moreover , democracy requires an informed citizenry that can question its government . a second arab human development report , issued in march 2003 , underscores the close relationship between the arab world ’s educational shortcomings and its lack of democracy .
with kurds , most of them civilians – fleeing turkish bombs , the un security council – remained typically quiet , while europeans denounced everything and all involved . the us president threatened to crush turkey ’s economy if it did what it had enabled . as foreign-policy disasters move , that is one to the point of record books . but the seeds for this outsize conflagration were sown long before the now-infamous trump-erdoğan call . absent any coherent policy , the conditions were ripe for a crisis .
and such an approach would cement the notion that central bank policies are “ the only game in town , ” ” relieving elected government leaders of their responsibility to pro-growth policies and the fiscal decisions that they control . a less risky , time-tested route to stimulating demand would involve a substantial increase in public-sector infrastructure investment , funded by government debt . viewed from a macroeconomic perspective , an investment in infrastructure is a “ twofer ” ” – one that reinforces productivity and competitiveness in the long run , and where there is unused capacity , it undermines demand , output , and employment with significant short-run multiplier effects . nonetheless , a <UNK> ter-money program , a fanciful idea when milton friedman proposed it in 1969 , would also be a radical departure for policymakers , requiring widespread caution about citizen and investor perceptions , confidence , and solid governance structures . it is well documented in showing that europe and the united states have underinvested in infrastructure .
with the government losing $ 4.5 billion each year by subsidizing passenger fares , it has little money to spend on upgrading infrastructure , improving safety standards , or speeding up testing testing . and , if all of this were n’t bad enough , india ’s leadership does not seem to recognize the challenges that railways present . in a country where railroad travelers can not even anticipate a clean toilet , let alone an on-time approach , prime minister narendra modi spoke about introducing bullet trains , the latest in a string of irrationally grandiose aspirations . in a country where railway travelers can not even expect a clean toilet , let alone an on-time approaching , prime minister narendra modi spoke of the introducing bullet trains , the latest in a string of irrationally grandiose aspirations claims . as a result , railways run out of money before plans run out .
cities , for their part , often lack the information and resources needed to develop and implement effective policies . and there are a number of ways that national governments can thwart progressive federalism at the municipal level . under federalism – whether cooperative or “ uncooperative ” – it is often assumed that state and local governments adhere to the same goals . in reality , there is a deep divide between left-leaning “ blue ” cities and the right-leaning “ red list ” states that where many were stuck . a number of organizations have now emerged to strengthen city governments ’ policy-making capacity including michael bloomberg ’s government innovation program , fuse corps , outcomes for america , social finance , third sector capital partners , and usafacts .
for several decades , this impresario of the right-wing political-entertainment complex has coarsened politics in the uk and the us , not to mention his indigenous australia in favor of profit and political clout . let ’s start with “ patient zero ” in this political plague : rupert murdoch . we need only look beyond these figures to identify who truly is responsible for fomenting a political climate , where blatant lies and explicit racism and bigotry have entered the mainstream of public discourse . only when we identify the sources of the odious virus that are now afflicting our democracies can we take practical steps to quarantine them . murdoch ’s newspapers and television networks might as well have patented the recipe for the deceitful , dog-whistle politics empowering trump ’s rise and the brexit vote .