another aspect of the pivot involves moving away from the middle east . the middle east will remain the central pillar of world energy for the next several decades to come . but no amount of supplanted footballs , whether pivoting or pirouetting , can diminish this importance in the region . unlike east asia , the middle east remains a region mired in turmoil , the complexity of which defies analytical consensus . do the region ’s crises stem from a lack of peace with israel ?
with russia and america holding 18,000 of the world ’s current stockpile of 19,000 nuclear weapons , it is proving impossible to persuade any other nuclear-armed states to cut their own ( much smaller ) arsenals until the big two are making additional drastic cuts to theirs . china shares russia ’s concerns over america ’s conventional and missile-defense advantage , and is boosting and modernizing its estimated 240-weapons stockpile . with china taking this course , india , outside the npt , feels the need to add to its own arsenal . and pakistan then becomes even more resolute in trying to contain india . this logic of deterrence produces a snowball effect .
two centuries later that was no longer the case : by the late nineteenth century , median standard of living in britain and other countries to which the industrial revolution had spread , for the first time in recorded history , light-years above any neo-malthusian foundation of subsistence . how , precisely , did these accomplishments take place ? what were the small differences that turned out to matter to be different ? early industrial-era economic accomplishments ushered in , despite a loss of a substantial share of national income to support a corrupt , decadent and profligate aristocracy . they emerged despite a tripling of a population that put exceptional malthusian pressure on an economy underlying natural-resource base and , despite the mobilization of an unprecedented proportion of national income for almost a century of intensive warfare against france , a power with only three times britain ’s population .
may , who is as tight-lipped as cameron was an open-minded ( if empty ) book , has already created the institutional skeleton for a political strategy . the referendum ’s outcome has had little impact on the broader global landscape , and the impact on eu institutions is just another crisis to manage , not the existential implosion envisioned by london-centric british newspapers . another new department , the so-called brexit ministry , will conduct political , judicial , and constitutional negotiations . may is in no rush to act ; nor is german chancellor angela merkel ( though she faces re-election next year , the increasingly desperate french president , françois hollande , is said to be ) . her administration formed the ministry of international trade , which will be responsible for drafting trade arrangements with the eu and the rest of the world ( the european commission previously handled such arrangements ) .
venezuela sought to finance itself with the help of the china-led china development bank , which does not impose the type of conditionality that imf bashers dislike . the chinese have not required that venezuela do anything to increase the likelihood that it regains . instead , the cdb lends on covert terms , for uses it undisclosed and corrupt , and with built-in privileges for chinese companies in areas like telecommunications ( huawei ) , appliances ( haier ) , automobiles ( chery ) , and petroleum drilling ( ictv ) . whatever the imf ’s faults , the cdb is an embarrassment . simply put , they are asking more oil as collateral .
moreover , the comprehensive nuclear-testing ban treaty , in exchange for replacing a fragile international moratorium , can not come into force without american senate ratification . one tv advertisement said it all about the low-rent tea party-driven cynicism . it featured two clips of obama ’s remark that i worked with republican senator dick lugar to pass legislation , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” and “ what i was reaching out to us senator dick lugar . the context was n’t explained , but what obama said was going to be this way : “ i working with republican senator dick lugar to pass a bill that will secure and demolish some of the world ’s deadliest , unguarded arms , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” and , “ what i was approaching was known was that – in the us congress , to help lock up loose nuclear weapons . with lugar ’s defeat and protracted exit from the latest republican moderates , like senator brad snowe of the maine , who became ready to place national interests ahead of partisanship , the us senate is unlikely to generate the 60 votes needed to ratify further us-russia arms-control treaties .
maybe he will be imprisoned for assisting terrorists , but his betrayal generates little resentment . secure states tend to forget about treason , at least in democracies . the soviets , with their fragile legitimacy , always feared betrayal . they named their crime izmena of the motherland – the betrayal of the motherland – and married this high moral language to short transgressions , like leaving the country illegally . insecure states are growing faster to a sense of betrayal .
like antipsychotic drugs , antidepressant drugs , and tranquilizers , ect has an immediate organic effect . but there is no comparable protest over the use of antipsychotic drugs , which has similarly been forced upon humans – and even used to torture prisoners . and , whereas ect rarely brings ect involuntarily and in all cases of consent , a large and growing number of drug users get antipsychotic drugs under fake pretences , including children , vulnerable adults , patients with alzheimer ’s , and a host of others whose lives are shortened by treatments , with little effort undertaken to seek their consent . though ect ’s opponents believe that ect causes the brain ’s harm , this can hardly be shown . but , while ect rarely brings clear clinical evidence to actual brain damage , and it has shown that in animal studies , antipsychotic drugs regularly occur during tardive and other syndromes .
new york – trade negotiators in singapore recently failed to finalize an agreement on the long-awaited trans-pacific partnership ; they will soon have another chance to finish what will be the world ’s largest regional free-trade agreement . the tpp talks include the united states , canada , and ten other pacific rim countries , with a combined annual per capita gdp of about $ 26 trillion , or roughly 40 % of global gdp . their economic clout is matched by their ambitions ; talks go beyond traditional trade issues , which account for just five of the 29 advocated chapters and consider a wide range of investment and regulatory issues affecting many millions of people , rather than always positively . but , amid serious concerns that the tpp will fail to consider important human-rights implications , that does n’t amount to celebration . whether trade liberalization generally aid or hurt the most is a complicated question .
and open schooling promises new approaches to collaborative learning that leverage social interactions between students and teachers worldwide . exciting questions about open education are just the beginning . open education promises to transform the contemporary textbook production pipeline into a vast , dynamic learning ecosystem that is ushering in a continuous state of creation , exploitation , and improvement . open education promises to transform the contemporary textbook production pipeline into a vast , dynamic learning ecosystem that is in an area of continuous expansion , exploitation , and improvement . late last year at cape town , we joined delegates from around the world to achieve a consensus on open learning ’s ideals and approaches , committing ourselves to them at the cape town ’s open-education declaration , which was officially released on january 22 . open schooling promises to give children a learn materials tailored to their individual needs , in contrast to today ’s “ off rack ” materials , together with faster feedback loops that match learning outcomes more directly with content development and advancement .
what , in his view , are limits to american engagement ? under what terms would the united states use its capabilities ? nearly 70 years ago , when george orwell investigated the tendency toward ambiguity , he offered the rather simple explanation , which “ political speech and writing tend to be mainly a defenders of the indefensible . ” in other words , hazy language is essential to obscure unsavory realities . massive violence toward civilian populations is entering pacification , ” ” ” and ethnic cleansing is a “ population transfer .
brussels – to many people in the west , it seems that china has gone from a country that “ keeps a cool head and maintains a low profile , ” ” ” ” ” in deng xiaoping ’s formulation , to one that resembles a nice international bust-up . putting an australian mining executive behind bars at ten years , squeezing google , keeping the european union at bay for an important dialogue , and letting the midlevel formal wag his finger at us president barack obama at the copenhagen climate summit does not augur , after all , the best way to convince partners of your own constructive ends . nor is it reassuring to remember that china , up to now , has stubbornly watering down us sanctions on iran , investing its major offensive military systems , and pillorying western leaders for irresponsible financial-sector policies and protectionism . but the point in reciting this litany of it is not so much to highlight china ’s wayward behavior as it exposes to evidence of the dilemma in which the country finds itself : should it behaves like a “ normal ” power , the world forgets forgotten by many hundreds of millions that it still needs to lift its out of poverty . the chinese leadership does seem to be aware of this dilemma , and is not so keen to be mired in fierce competition with the west or its neighbors .
the international situation at that time was no less dangerous than it is today . yet we succeeded in ameliorating it – not only normalizing relations but ending the cold war confrontation itself . if that continues , europe would lose leverage in world affairs , gradually becoming irrelevant . fortunately , experience in the 1980s suggests a way forward . this was accomplished primarily through dialogue .
and , once such firms are established and dominate their chosen market , the new economy allows them to pursue anti-competitive measures that bar actual and potential rivals from challenging their positions . this increased market concentration is widening the gap between firms owned by robots ( capital ) and employees whom robots replace ( labor ) . such factors help to explain why the digital economy has given rise to large firms that have sapped need for labor . but confronting this will require us to reinvent antitrust for the digital age . and , as the economists david autor , david dorn , lawrence f. katz , christina patterson , and john van reenen shows , american industries with their fastest-growing market concentration have also seen the largest drop in labor ’s share of income .
and which should we thank all this european progress ? do we owe it to the wisdom of european political leaders , especially that of “ merkozy ” strange couple of merkel and french president nicolas sarkozy ? unfortunately not : progress resulted almost entirely from much-maligned financial-market pressures . that is not a cause for celebration ; it is a thing ; it is a duty of things . just as former italian prime minister silvio berlusconi was bringing down not just his political opponents , but also by jittery investors , it is the markets , not european leaders , that have opened the door to european fiscal and political union .
and if multiple currencies all depreciate against the us dollar , the resulting impact on america ’s manufacturing sector could slow the american economy , undermining its import demand , and thus hurting us exporters . indeed , this pre-2008 us debt has not gone away ; it has simply shifted more along between sectors and countries . forecasts for america ’s economic growth have been revised downward downward significantly since the us federal reserve ’s interest-rate hike in december . the demand has been depressed by the pre-2008 overhang . depressed equity markets and falling bond yields worldwide in january 2016 thus illustrate the global nature of the problem we face .
paris – us president donald trump has shaken a transatlantic alliance that has long seemed unshakable . in a january interview , he labeled nato “ obsolete ” and the european union a “ vehicle ” to germany . the eu would collapse soon , with the succession of countries following the united kingdom out . with trump , the world is becoming accustomed to shocking statements and shameless reversals . the united states , its stature suggests , would be more than kind .
those that have survived have done so little , with greatly reducing output going mainly to the ex-soviet market . russia has the know-how , skilled engineering , and the natural-resource base to become a global competitor in a wide range of major high-tech industries , including nuclear energy , commercial aviation , commercial space technology ( including satellites and gps ) , ict hardware and software , electric cars , high-speed rail , petrochemicals , and heavy hardware and hydrocarbon sectors . all of these industries will benefit from the potential for enormous demand growth in large markets like china , africa , and india . but achieving longer-term growth , led by a high-tech sector , will require a entrepreneurial environment that encourages private-sector investment , including openness to foreign players . in addition , its social and political environment must become conducive to high-tech labour , delivering an attractive quality of life , delivering civil liberties , and fostering entrepreneurship and creativity .
the situation , of course , does not both cut and dried out . and there is some potential for abuse , with expenditures being misclassified as investment . yet , in an environment of low long-term interest rates and deficient short-term aggregate demand ( which implies little downside risks for the private sector ) , it is a mistake not to roll over investment constraints . in fact , by arguably the right kinds of public investment would probably spur more private-sector investment . a return to public-sector investment does affect the presence or absence of complementary reforms that vary from country to country .
outside the united states , women have already reached the upper echelons of power . in germany , chancellor angela merkel ’s victory in last month ’s general election is respected or resented by her austerity policies , rather than her gender . argentina ’s president cristina fernández de kirchner is attacked for mismanagement in the us and america ’s banking interests in forcing debt restructuring on her country ’s creditors , not because she is a woman . the central theme in such tv programs is not that women play their leading roles . in france , character , not gender , drives the narrative .
the federal open market committee ( fomc ) , comprising fed governors and presidents from regional federal reserve banks , agreed that the federal funds rate would remain at its current near-zero level until the unemployment rate falls to 6.5 % , and could be expected to stay there or fall even further . the fed warns that it might raise the federal funds rate if the projected annual inflation rate rises from its current level of slightly less than 2 % to just over 2.5 % . with unemployment now at 7.6 % and falling only slowly , the fed may not be ready to raise the federal funds rate again until it took office in 2015 . but there are caveats that make this forward guidance ambiguous , and hence uninformative . bernanke emphasized that these two policies are on separate tracks and will respond to various economic-policy indicators .
during the past 20 years , social inequality has grown threefold . according to prokhorov , productivity in russia is just 6-10 % of that in the united states , which is why the economy struggles even as oil prices , its primary exports , its main exports , are peaking . two million well-educated professionals , only recently emigrated from russia . russia , prokhorov concludes , is a feudal society , with putin ’s political monopoly and economic mismanagement exacerbating the so-called “ natural-resource curse ” that plagues many oil-exporting countries . and , with housing , health , and education less accessible now than at the end of the 1980 ’s , his political program focuses on what should be done to improve russia ’s human capital , a key problem holding back russia ’s economy .
what is significant is that the united states ( ideally joined with other countries ) let iran know that any action to place itself in a field of nuclear arms after 15 years , though not explicitly precluded by the accord , will not be tolerated . iran should likewise be told that the us and its allies would commit a preemptive military strike if it seems to be attempting to present a world with a fait accompli . harsh sanctions are to be reintroduced at the first sign that iran is preparing a post-jcpoa ; that , too , is not precluded by the npt . the world has erred in permitting north korea to pass its missile threshold ; it should not make the same mistake again . meanwhile , a major effort must be initiated to assuage iran ’s concerns about iran ’s neighbors ’ concerns , a few of which are tempted to hedge its bets against iran ’s possible breakaway regions in 15 years by pursuing its nuclear programs .
in the context of the coming years , rather than just in the coming weeks , trump ’s election will almost surely go wrong for greenspan . for starters , the dollar has shot up since the election only because trump has publicly promised to enact deep tax cuts and ramp up expenditure cuts for infrastructure decaying and america ’s supposedly depleted ” military . this , in turn , will boost near-term economic growth and , inevitably , push interest rates closer to zero . short-term exchange-rate movements are no way to judge the currency ’s underlying strength . longer-term trends in how money is used internationally – particularly a store of value for foreign investors or central banks – tell a lot more .
as home secretary , she has often won battles against other ministers , simply by refusing to express her views , or even to appear in meetings , until minutes before the ultimate decision had to be made . europe ’s leaders could easily neutralize perhaps the threat of a no-deal brexit , and , in turn , eliminate any need to offer the kind of concessions that she proposes . to do this , they need to understand the method behind may ’s maddening strategy of indecision and delay . but this pleased outlook on may rests on one crucial assumption : that the march 29 brexit deadline will remain unchanged . throughout her political career , may has used procrastination as her win-win strategy .
and it ranks 58th in institutional quality , owing to overweening government regulation , opaque corporate governance , and policy instability . finally , service-sector productivity amounts to just 45 % of that in the manufacturing sector , on average , compared with the oecd average of 90 % . meanwhile , the issue is most acute in finance , real estate , business services , and community and government services . externally , south korea is highly vulnerable to an escalation of north korea ’s nuclear threat . in recent months , north korea has launched several ballistic missiles and conducted a nuclear test , spurring a exchange of incendiary rhetoric between north korean leader kim jong-un and us president donald trump .
the history of colonialism in western europe and japan , of slavery in america , shows that , as liberal democratic ideals take root in a society , the rights of citizenship can not be denied to members ’ colonial subjects or specific groups . second , continued imperialism in near-abroad , and in chechnya , strengthens reactionary forces opposed to liberal democracy . the political and military elements that lament the disappearance of the soviet state feed on funds devoted to expanding russian influence in the ex-soviet republics . it is not sustainable for smolensk ’s peoples , oblast , to live under a constitutional democracy , while the citizens of grozny and sukhumi are victims of wanton shelling and destruction . so , should russia continue along an imperialist line , its democracy will come under threat .
whether we identify with both heroes or victims , with airplane pilots promoting the end of wwii , or with a passive population subjected to the inferno atomic annihilation , we always rooting out `` innocents and the `` good guys '' . at hiroshima museum itself , a victim role has been exploited in ways that similarly distort memory . everyone selects the point of view , which fits it best . from the japanese perspective , an `` account of victimization , '' in which `` atomic bombs '' have become the symbol of a particular type of agony -- rather than as much as the holocaust for jews . neither japan 's government 's responsibility for launching and continuing war , nor the inhumane treatment that prisoners of war or subject civilian populations suffered under japanese rule , is properly acknowledged .
the intended recipients of these actions should be defined as rights-holders . this removes the stigma of a charity , conserving the victims . instead of being helped because they have unsatisfied needs , they are rights-respecting , because their rights are violated . accountability mechanisms should be instituted , allowing victims to hold governments accountable for their failure to take action . a framework also should include a indiscriminate requirement , ensuring that we focus our attention on the most vulnerable groups – not just well-connected , literate , and favorites of the regime – and not only groups for which quick victory can succeed .
first , american firms that seek to do business in china are obliged to have a chinese partner and to share their technology with that firm . that compulsory sharing in technology is explicitly forbidden by world trade organization rules . the most important problem affecting the need to solve is not america ’s massive bilateral trade deficit with china . it is that the chinese are stealing us firms with technologies and exploiting it to help chinese firms compete against those same firms in china and around the world . the chinese are doing this in two ways .
yet today ’s perhaps 1.5 million of its citizens have been uprooted , which has nothing to do with islam and everything to do with a struggle along ethnic lines for control of the country ’s resource endowments . this struggle within islam pits pluralism against purification . it is ripping countries and regions apart ; standing people to travel halfway around the world to join jihad ; and threatening to unleash more violence against muslims , as well as against christians , jews , and elsewhere . but the battle within islam does not amount to a satisfactory or adequate explanation for the state of the anarchy we are seeing in the places like south sudan , whose 11 million people gained autonomy just over three years ago . although the world ’s world-wide country has emerged from the bitter civil war between christian and muslims , an independence referendum has received 99 % support .
in the us , the troubled asset relief program ( tarp ) , which former president george w. bush signed into law in october 2008 , began as a program in which the us treasury department bought problematic , largely mortgaging assets straight from financial institutions . but that proved to be even more complicated than originally thought , and , in a matter of weeks , the government was simply recapitalized american banks in the eu . with that one unilateral decision , ireland destabilized the rest of europe . other , hard fixes were not so easily reversed , either . after all , hoping to prevent a run on the bank , the irish government offered a blanket guarantee of all banking deposits .
on one side , there needs to be increased media literacy relative to consumers , who need to be taught , from a young age , about the real-world consequences of online hate speech . hate speech and other kinds of dangerous and illegal contents must be attacked at the sourcing level . on the other hand , and this is what netzdg attempts to ensure – social-media platforms must ensure that their products are designed in ways that encourage responsible exploitation . but this does not have a quick fix at all . conversely , it demands a fundamental re-think of business models that facilitate and even reward hate speech .
independently of what we think of britain leaving the eu , we can ask two other questions , one general and one specific to brexit . first , to what extent should citizens of a democracy be able to make decisions directly , in a referendum rather than through their elected representatives ? and , more precisely , should british legislators regard may as committed to the result of june 23 referendum ? on the general question , then , is the strongest argument for direct democracy , one that it follows from the very notion of democracy itself , subject only to a feasibility constraint . in earlier times , the small city-state could all too easily become direct democracies ; but , at a time when communication was slow to stem the need for representatives to decide the many questions that needed to be debated and voted instead .
a major policy coalition of technology firms and civil-society organizations recently sent a letter to president barack obama arguing against backdoors . in addition to “ undermining ” every american ’s cyber security and people ’s economic security , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” signers argued that , to limit new vulnerability to weakening the encrypted american products would also undermine human rights and informational security over the globe ’s ” globe . an american government will not object , given its own policies . they regard a backdoor request the same way that the automobile manufacturer would view a defective engine demand . what supporters of encryption recognize is that “ if american firms retain the capacity to unseat their customers ’ data and facilities asking , governments other than the united states will demand equal access , and will also be emboldened to seek the same capability from their native firms .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of heightened challenges to america 's interests elsewhere in the world . kuala lumpur – malaysia ’s early-year-old government , led by prime minister mahathir mohamad , suddenly finds itself mired in a major political scandal , following the online circulation of a sex videos involving cabinet minister and others . unfortunately , the latest drama , like those surrounding it , risks obscuring more fundamental problems . weaponized sodomy charges are nothing new in malaysia , twice caused by the incarceration of people ’s justice party leader anwar ibrahim .
at a time of much hand-wringing over the breakdown of liberalism , the future of social democracy , the rise of nationalism , and the all-anti-globalization backlash , macron ’s unapologetically internationalist stance is notable . but is politics really turning the page toward traditional far-right cleavage ? macron has also signaled his willingness to pursue a pan-european campaign for the 2019 european parliament elections . like a democrat , he believes that deepening the european union must go hand in hand with the development of a genuinely european political space . in fact , macron has taken a leap into the unknown of western “ new politics ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” a terrain no longer defined entirely by competition between large center-right and center-left parties .
london – most pundits agree that the least wrong way to deal with north korea ’s nuclear saber rattling is a continued combination of tight containment and aggressive diplomacy . fewer , however , has recognized that the least bad military option – one implied by us president donald trump ’s insistence that china take responsibility for its rogue neighbor – is a chinese invasion , or regime change has been forced through china threatening to launch one . this outcome , which would sharply shift east asia ’s strategic balance in china ’s favor , is not quite as unlikely as most people think . in fact , its very plausibility is one reason for it to be taken seriously , including by chinese military planners . in trumpian terms , this is a “ china first ” option , which might help make china great again .
spiekermann , a global body to trade our online identity for purposes of targeted advertising , political propaganda , public and private oversight or other nefarious purposes stresses the need to crack down on “ personal data markets . ” nor is it “ just facebook and google , ” apple , or amazon , that harvest and use us data for any purpose that one might think of , ” ” ” ” ” ” spiekermann says . “ ever since the world economic forum began to convene a debate on personal data as the new asset class in 2011 , ” ” ” she told me , “ personal data markets have thrived on the idea that personal data may be what could turn out to be the “ new kind of oil ” of the digital economy in the digital economy , just as it seems – in politics . as a result , “ over a thousand companies now engage in the digital-information chain ” that harvests data from any online activity and delivers targeted content at online or mobile users , within roughly 36 seconds , on their entry into the digital realm . “’ data-management platforms , like those operated by acxiom or oracle bluekai , possess thousands of the personal attributes and growing psychological profiles of hundreds of users .
it gives the poor access to a broader range of commodities , while providing firms with more diversified selection of inputs . but increased trade can also eliminate low-skill factory jobs and depress farm prices – outcomes that disproportionately harm the poor . given constraints for cross-sectoral labor mobility , driven by labor-acquisition barriers and rigid labor-market regulations , the poorest workers have few options when these changes occur . as a result , increased trade may demand difficult adjustments in the short term . in india , for example , poverty has declined more slowly in regions facing increased foreign competition .
but it has also proved that press freedom means far more than letting journalists report what they want when they want and how they want . for kenya , the nation ’s very public decline has come at a steep cost . and yet , just when the country ’s social-democratic institutions could most benefit from such a mirror , those who have historically held it now seem to believe that they have no alternative but to lay it down . what kenyans really need is similar means of reflection today . it also means that holding media owners accountable .
simply lowering interest rates did not , and will not , lead firms to invest more in these sectors . the 2001 recession combined an inventory boom with an investment bust . the first is ending ; the second -- the result of overinvestment in high technology and telecommunications ; the sectors so important in the late 90s ' boom may last far longer . there remains a substantial capacity overhang — like the fiber optic lines which remain murky , have yet to see any light pass through them . the good news -- and the bad ones just -- is that the pace of technological change in these sectors is accelerating sufficiently fast that a large part of the equipment may become outdated well sooner or even applied , enabling new investment to start faster than it otherwise would .
once the bureaucracy and the broad parameters for talks are established by early next year , may will formally launch the withdrawal process by invoking article 50 of the treaty of lisbon . two years of negotiations ( longer if the eu agrees ) will follow . by that point , the next general election will not be far off , providing a second stamp of brexit ’s approval . that , at the very least , is precisely what the formal plan has done . the three brexiteers , after fighting one another like rat in a sack , will have to come up with a bundle .
warsaw – in paris , west berlin , london , and rome , the spring of 1968 marked the student protests against the vietnam war . in warsaw , too , the students protesting them , but their cause was not the same as their western counterparts . young poles took to the streets of warsaw not to chanting “ ho , ho , ho chi minh ” in solidarity with soviet-cong , but rather to defend their own countries ’ ’s freedom and culture against smothering communist rule . instead of chanting ho chi ’s name , young poles poured flowers under the monument of adam mickiewicz , a nineteenth-century poet whose drama foreeve , written in praise of his struggle for freedom , recently derided the “ subversive and anti-soviet ” , and its performance at a national theater in warsaw closed down . these are just a few of the differences between the west and the east european students that the springtime of forty years ago .
preliminary conclusions emerging from these studies will illuminate political debates – and probably annoy ideologues of both the right and the left . start , lustig argues in a recent paper , with the absence of global income inequality . consider the gini coefficient , the most common measure of inequality , which runs from zero for perfect equality to one good 100 for perfect inequality ( one person receives all income ) . the average gini score ( rather than population weighted ) in the countries on which data declined slightly during the 2000-2010 period , from 39 to 38 . crucially , per capita figures are comparable across a large middle set – as well as low - and middle-income countries , and also with high-paying data for advanced countries .
likewise , while policies to stimulate firms to raise wages will raise household incomes and domestic consumption , wage increases may erode the export competitiveness and choke off foreign-direct investment inflows . the final piece of the puzzle for china is its realism . with policies alone unlikely to raise average output substantially , enhancing productivity is critical for china ’s long-term prosperity . as it stands , the chinese government is keen to maintain decent growth of around 7 % annually , while pushing for rebalancing and reform . the risk is that , until reform measures take effect , the authorities can rely on short-term stimulus to meet its growth targets – aggravating resource misallocation , and structural vulnerability .
and , by closing down such a prominent us-supported institution , it can send the message that no one who stood up to him has won . despots throughout history have used the same tactic . yet orbán is doing just that within the eu in 2017 . it is worth remembering that to join the eu , hungary was forced to meet stringent accession criteria , including credible democratic institutions and adherence to the rule of law . the fact that those high standards are now being systematically violated has imposed a paradox for the eu .
soros : the ecb is a functioning institution . so long as it behaves within its power , germany lacks the power to veto it . that is why i am hopeful that something really significant may emerge from the deliberations that currently take place behind closed doors . soros : i debunked this discussion in 2000 in my book the crisis of global capitalism . this is one reason why the current economic crisis seems perhaps the ultimate step in a generalized philosophical crisis across the west ?
indeed , since sweden adopted the same tax system in 1991 , its average annual rate of increase in productivity has grown by a factor of four . moreover , it is not as though a flat capital-gains tax will hamper social mobility or increase poverty . by moving away from a university degree universal eligibility system to one that finds more appropriate fit for all post-high-school educated students , france stands to benefit from more genuine equality and greater social mobility . social mobility in france has experienced no major change since 1991 . macron ’s revolution , after all , is moving again .
but while many observers focused on the scandals ’ short-lived political and economic fallout , it is worth recalling what brazil stands to gain by exposing its corruption and punishing offenders . ongoing prosecutions have already reshaped the calculus for any economic agent that is considering violations of the country ’s trust for private gain . reforming brazil ’s public and private relationship can improve the country ’s long-term economic performance . aside from individual firms , entire value chains that contribute immensely to the country ’s gdp have suffered an abrupt operating and financial freeze . there is now a widespread perception that those who engage in illicit dealings have a higher odds for being captured and punished , regardless of their socioeconomic standing .
at the same time , many are turning their backs on the entire project . as the union races ahead , it seems that it has lost europeans along the way . even in the new member states , enthusiasm for a european peasant of democracies is cooling . they are having trouble seeing what , too , is common to europe . they do not feel part of the great whole .
these include trump ’s former national security adviser , michael flynn , who has lied about his conversations with russia ’s ambassador to trump during the transition ( most likely about lifting sanctions imposed by us president barack obama ’s imposition of tariffs on russian businesses ) . yet trump himself remains vulnerable to investigations initiated by or handed over to federal and state prosecutors outside of washington . in addition , then-president-elect donald trump , jr. , together with other top campaign appointees , met in trump tower with a rustic intelligence operative with ties to the kremlin , who promise “ dirt ” on hillary clinton . it was widely expected that trump ’s son to face impeachment , as was the case even donald trump , jr. , said so – but barr ’s announcement ruled out further prosecutions . another prominent escapee from the special counsel ’s bully was trump ’s son-in-law , jared kushner , who is widely believed that he has exploited his white house role , particularly in the foreign policy ( where he ’d lacked experience ) , to attend to his family ’s need for funds to bail out vast real-estate debt .
the american can not stop the downward spiral of violence in the middle east . pundits argue that the arabs can not manage democracy alone . in reality , america and its allies simply resent the results of an arab democracy , which all too often produces governments that are deeply nationalist , anti-israel , islamist , and dangerous to america ’s oil interests . when the ballots go in this direction , the u.s. simply ignores election results ( as it did , for example , in 2006 , when hamas won a large popular vote in gaza ) . backsliding , and the violence , then , continue to rule the day .
cambridge : after a wasted decade , the world is banding together against the aids pandemic sweeping the world ’s poorest countries , particularly in africa and south-asia . while first identified in the americas in the early 1980s , aids is now concentrated in poor countries : an estimated 25 million people still suffering from it in africa ; six million more in asia . around southern africa , more than 20 % of adults are afflicted . a pandemic has claimed 19 million lives and created 13 million orphans . some 34 million more people live with the hiv virus that causes aids ; virtually all are marked by early deaths .
in most cases , the skies laws mirror those governing the world ’s oceans . oceans belong to all except those near the landmasses managed in a similar fashion as a country ’s land-bound frontier . the fragile treaties that conceal this are enforced mostly by the fact that a few nations can afford to place assets that high . airliners and fighter planes operate inside “ controlled ” ” air close to the earth , while the nationality to matter less than the higher you go . as a result , the sky tends to conceptualized .
nor is our current era marked by the fourth industrial revolution ; it is the beginning of the digital age and the end of the industrial age , utterly . the digital age has introduced new vulnerabilities that hackers , cyber criminals , and other malign actors already seem routinely to be drawing . indeed , few other trends pose even greater threats to global stability . the so-called internet of things is a misnomer ; soon enough , it will be the “ internet of everything . ” almost all societies have become heavily dependent upon internet , the world ’s most important piece of infrastructure – and , equally , on infrastructure upon which all other infrastructure relies .
china ’s industrialization strategy in the pre-reform era has rejected the notion of “ comparative advantage ” – a principle that an economy produces some goods more efficiently than others , owing to factors like natural resources , geography , and the climate . wto membership will also force the government to cease discrimination in soes ’ favor and against sectors with high levels of private ownership , including agriculture . a similar wto-induced sects underlies the slump of steel and textiles in advanced countries like the us . in china , most soes have survived because central planners have emphasized economic autarky , regardless of costs . jamaica , say , produces no frozen salmon or hockey players , because investing one in industries like citrus ’s fruit and tourism generates far more certain returns .
still , the mainstream political parties that have governed italy until this year have failed to deliver on the nominal gdp growth that the country needs . there are also some who believe that the eurozone ’s fiscal and monetary framework locks italy into weak nominal gdp growth , possibly too-low inflation and high debt levels . as a result , italians have elected an unconventional coalition , whose agenda combines the populist left ’s policies with those of the populist right . while the league party ’s vows to cut taxes , the populist five star movement ( m5s ) is pursuing a form of fundamental income . yet before the new government took office , italy ’s cyclically-adjusted fiscal deficit – unlike its underlying debt position – was often rather restrained in comparison with the rest of europe , as was the other g7 members ( canada , france , germany , japan , the united kingdom , and the united states ) .
learning what a country is ( or can be ) a fine at producing raises the key challenges of its economic development . for that to happen , governments need to deploy both the carrot and the stick . a carrot is required because there is a great social value in discovering , for example , that cut flowers , or frenchmen , soccer balls , or computerized software can be produced at low-cost prices because this knowledge can orient investment by other entrepreneurs . encouraging foreign investment or borrowing everything , then waiting for things to improve , does not work . an effective strategy needs to accomplish two tasks : incentives to invest in non-traditional areas , and weed out projects and investments that fail .
the effect of the dollar ’s decline over the coming decade could be equally important . if a truly trade-weighted value of the us dollar falls close to 25 % over the next decade , and the full effect that the dollar ’s decline reflects on us import prices , the increased cost of us imports would reduce america ’s real incomes by roughly 0.4 % annually . together , combining these conservative assumptions about potential gdp with the cyclical rebound effect – an estimated 1.2 % annual rise in real gdp – would generate real gdp growth at an average annual rate of 2.6 % , well above the 1.9 % rate over the decade ending in 2009 . but not all of the additional output produced over the next decade will remain in the hands of america . with the us trade deficit reducing by about 3 % of gdp between now and the end of the decade , the implied increase in us exports and those declining us imports would reduce the output available for american consumption and investment over the next two years .
holdouts argued that if the new bond were to be serviced fully ( as it is ) , equal treatment required that holdouts receive the full amount owed to them ( including not just interest but principal ) . america ’s second circuit court of appeals ruled that argentina was bound to honor its obligations to holdout bondholders on the same proportion ( namely , 100 % ) as holders of exchange-rate bonds . it was that ruling that the supreme court recently upheld it . as a result , argentina had to either pay holdouts in full or default on new bonds . under the court order , argentina might not pay the holders of the new bond , unless it also disbursed the holdouts , and no american financial institution could serve as an intermediary to make payments for argentina .
zhou bo , an honorary fellow with the pla academy of military sciences , accepts that china ’s mega-projects “ will fundamentally alter the indian ocean ’s political and economic landscape , ” while presenting china as a “ strong yet benign ” power . in fact , india is arguably suspicious of china ’s behavior at the time . however , china is treading carefully enough that it can continue to advance its goals without spooking its intended quarry . this matters , because the new asian order will be determined less by developments in east asia , where japan is determined to block china ’s rise , rather than by events in the indian ocean , where china is chipping away at india ’s longstanding dominance . china has now embarked on a $ 1.4-billion project to construct a still-sprawling , roughly the size of monaco on region-wide reclaimed soil in colombo , a chinese-built “ port city ” that will become a major pause on china ’s anything but “ road . ”
so far , sharif has been an honored guest on modi ’s inauguration , exchanging gifts with india ’s newly affable leader . yet sharif has been an honored guest at modi ’s inauguration , exchanging gifts with india ’s newly affable leader . many of modi ’s supporters in the media have already begun to decry a series of political abdications modi has run since his campaign . at the same time , modi ’s government has taken the upa-proposed goods and services tax , stalled in the bjp-ruled united states ( including modi ’s gujarat ) . and it will augment the national anti-terrorist effort that modi has previously denounced as a offensive against indian federalism .
with today ’s emphasis on military action in what we call the “ war on terror ” – the need for a conference to discuss security and military affairs jointly defined by the charter of stability – has become urgent . europe ’s contributions to the middle east have been great . a regional agenda must be set up to help identify priorities , based on a three-pronged strategy comprising energy and water policies , arms control , and debt reduction . in all conflicts , human rights are among the first casualties , and , in the middle east , the degradation of human dignity has now undone international conventions that were agreed upon over several generations . we should look to the helsinki process to show us how to revisit what was lost .
who , after all , might have anticipated that bill clinton was following america ’s president had committed to undermining the multilateral system in all its manifold ? when the oecd proposed an agreement to restrict bank secrecy , the bush administration vetoed that initiative , too . they did what they could to ensure that no meaningful reform came about during the crisis , with the recognition that post-crisis momentum toward reform would dissipate . at the same time , they were more right than they knew . for example , when the imf rightly suggested , after argentina ’s crisis , that a better path to debt restructuring was needed ( an international bankruptcy process ) , america vetoed the initiative .
bangkok – earlier this month , an estimated 100,000 hong kong residents , gathered at victoria park , to mark the 28th anniversary of china ’s violent repression of pro-democracy protesters in beijing ’s tiananmen square . on the surface , little has changed since the united kingdom returned hong kong to china 20 years ago . but , in reality , china now exercises near total state control over hong kong ’s governance . as the south china morning post commented , the event in hong kong was the one massive public commemoration of june 4 , 1989 , being permitted on chinese soil . and to the mass attendees , hong kong ’s showmanship reflected growing frustrations , not only with china ’s leaders , but also with regard to its own attendees .
for starters , leaders need to get the question right before proposing answers . to choose goals and articulating those in a vision , they need not only solicit the inputs of their followers , but also a better understanding of the context of their choices . and , to be sustainable , a successful vision must also include an effective diagnosis of the matters that a group faces . what plays well with one group may not be able to sit well with another . it is up to leaders to be able to figure out reality accurately .
here , too , its record is demonstrably poor . if anything , power becomes more centralized and concentrated as governments increase control of the supplies of strategic commodities , given the shortages that they are causing . finally , sanctions alone are supposedly effective in containing nuclear proliferation . but , by making the business and investment climate worse , economic sanctions are taking their toll mainly on the private sector . sixth , sanctions are often claimed to weaken targeted governments .
nothing of the sort applies to the middle east ’s crisis belt . central and eastern europe after 1989 , however very interesting reference point to the analysts of the arab revolutions , does not yield to an appropriate reference point , because the region ’s new domestic and foreign command resulted from changes in external conditions stemming from the collapse of soviet power . internally , almost all of these countries had a very clear idea on what they wanted to be : democracy , liberty , a market economy , and protection from the return of the russian empire . they wanted the west , and their accession to nato and the european union was a logical one . no power anywhere in the region or without is willing and able to execute the barest vision of a new regional order , or even a vision for part of it .
new haven – by now , it is an all-too-familiar drill . after an extended period of extraordinary monetary accommodation , the united states federal reserve has started a long process of returning to normalization . it has now taken the first step toward returning its benchmark policy interest rate – a federal funds rate at a level that imparts neither stimulus nor restraint for the american economy . a majority of financial market players applaud this strategy ; but for the most part , the us has a long history of monetary policy history . in fact , for the us , this is a dangerous miscalculation .
moreover , the build-up of risk in a financial system that accompanies higher leverage is both hard to measure and likely to materialize only after a few years ( for example , after governor ’s term of office expired ) . more leverage creates macroeconomic risk – not least for fiscal balances when an implicit one must honor it . by keeping banks and other private-sector firms below lower-level debt levels , the vulnerability to shocks is limited . de gregorio ’s insight is different from that of many of his colleagues in some other countries , for he sees clearly the risks to allow banks to become bigger and apply what he calls smart ” ” strategies that require a large amount of leverage . what makes this danger for central banks stems from the failure to measure the implicit subsidies available to major financial institutions in any budget .
new york – there has been no shortage of scrutiny of what russian president vladimir putin is up to in syria , and why . what we know is that putin has decided to go to war with bashar al-assad ’s embattled regime . russian bomb and missile launches now raining away on a array of armed groups battling syrian government forces that gave the regime the breathing space that russian intervention was meant to provide . much of the analysis , though narrowly focused on the short term and may be too negative when it comes to assessing his actions ’ likely long-term consequences . as bad as assad ’s government is , and just as it must respond for , that outcome is arguably preferable in the short run to the regime ’s collapse .
using data for the 2017 us , we find that the number of antisubsidy and countervailing ( anti-subsidy ) case lodged by all wto member countries against exporting countries ( a log value equivalent to the vertical graph below ) tends to fall as the income level of the exporter increases ( shown by a log in the value of a horizontal axis ) . each graph ’s line represents the wto member economies , and the firm black line shows the international average ( drawn from all member economies excluding china ) . the pattern of data is reasonably clear : as a country becomes richer , there are obviously far fewer anti-subsidy , or antisubsidy cases against it . this could be because richer countries observe rules better , making it less likely to attract grievances as their labor costs rise , or some combination of either type . this may broadly be interpreted as part of a rules-based global trade framework .
the referendum decision to leave the eu will be honored , but its harsh economic consequences will be postponed : the triumph of pragmatism over ideology . the brexiteers will be enraged by such a “ soft ” exit , but probably enough by securing parliamentary consent . john maynard keynes placed the matter well : “ words ought to be a bit ferocity , ” for they are an assault of ideas on the unthinking , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” he wrote in 1933 . most bets are on britain formally abandoning the eu in march 2019 , but “ “ temporarily ” – that is , remaining in the customs union – give it two or three years to negotiate a final divorce settlement . if the brexit trajectory proves this way , a good illustration of the dual character – and function – of politics .
new situation in iraq , together with the middle east roads map , has been at the center of attention . both europeans and americans , israelis and iranians , egyptians , and turks , palestinians , and tunisians rubbed shoulders . the atmosphere could not have been more tranquil : a former royals castle in the rolling hill of the taunus region near frankfurt , where statesmen and politicians held the annual meeting ’s dealing with the middle east . the novelty this year was the presence of post-saddam iraqi representatives , among them an official from a kurdish regional government , as well as a high ranking shi'a proxy . on september 22 , senior german government minister , himself deeply engaged in middle eastern affairs , addressed the two subjects , displaying considerable sensitivity to both israeli and palestinian concerns .
and ramadan , now underway , is mobilization-friendly . last friday , cairo has been crippled , despite an almost-complete shortage of coverage by local media outlets . after sunset , a common program is underway . observant muslims gather at sundown for iftar ( breakfast ) , followed by evening ’s prayers , tawarih ( longer prayers , including short sermon ) , social interactions , qiyyam ( another late-night prayer ) , suhur ( another collective food ) , and then the morning prayers . the last ten days of ramadan are i organized as part of a project in town : during which worshippers gather and spend nights in mosques and open areas .
no country or region can truly aspire to full , broad-based economic growth without pulling along all segments of its population up and without giving voice to everyone . as africa ’s leading development-finance institutions , the african development bank ( adb ) will support our north african members , enhancing governance and institutions , enhancing social safety nets , and lay the groundwork for robust economic recovery . with the emerging democratic dispensation across the continent , the us has partners with which it can engage on governance issues . we are distributing our consultations with governments and other actors to work more closely with national and regional civil-society groups and media , as well as academic institutions , think tanks , labor unions , and industry and industry associations . as us finances infrastructure and other such projects in the region , we will seek to integrate disenfranchised regions and rural areas .
even many of the poorest countries appeared to be joining at long last , posting robust growth on the back of rising energy and raw material prices , renewed mining investment from abroad , and increased fiscal revenue . although the numbers were never quite as rosy as market enthusiasts seemed to be thinking , they shift attention away from the shaky fundamentals of global newfound prosperity . asset reflation and stock markets will undoubtedly dampen american household borrowing and demand , potentially triggering a downward spiral . at the same time , the fate of the rest of the world depends on responses to the unfolding financial turmoil . the increasing need for actions to correct global imbalances has been met with disbelief by influential policymakers and market analysts : “ why change the winning formula ? ”
manila – food shortages are a distant memory for many people in asia . but , as the region struggles to feed and nourish a booming population , they could once again become a painful reality for life . and , by that point , more than 60 % of total global cereal demand in the developing world will come from south and east asia . asia is already the world ’s largest food market , and its population is projected to grow to 5 billion by 2050 , an increase of about 900 million . owing to its expanding middle class , the region will likely account for half of the global rise in annual beef and poultry consumption and more than three quarters of the rise in fish consumption between now and 2030 .
this is not to say that the us should necessarily engage with every problem . but , whether america is engaged or not , it needs policy . syria is a case in point . the situation there , prophesied by every pundit around , has metastasized , and is threatening to become a full-blown regional civil war . what the u.s. needs is to explain better to its own people why america should engage more deeply in the middle east ’s mounting problems .
london – cybersecurity is one of the defining challenges of the digital age . at the same time , the question now is how it could be fulfilled . the scale of the challenge should not be underestimated . all , from households to businesses to governments , have a stake in preserving our era ’s superior commodity : the data . with attackers become increasingly agile and innovative , armed with an increasingly varied array of weapons , cyber-attacks are happening at an accelerating pace , and more sophistication than ever before .
integrating migrants makes a lot of sense ; but helping to create sustainable conditions in the troubled countries , with the aid of an entire generation of emigrant who flows resources first , and then rereturns themselves . in this way , more portugals and isands can be created as the fortunes of an already prosperous regions are sustained . many of the consequences follow from such home truths about immigration , not least a more rational debate . this is not the only way forward ; it is . viewed from the perspective of such truths , the european union ’s eastward enlargement , for example , is highly desirable not , despite , because it may lead to migration from the new member states to the old one .
the costs are miniscule : reaching 80 % of the world ’s 140 million , or so undernourished children would require a commitment of about $ 60 million annually , while the impact of economic gains ultimately clear $ 1 billion annually . in fact , providing an iron and iodized salt is another top-performing investment . for $ 286 million , we could be obtaining iodized salt and fortified basic food items to 80 % of those in the worst-affected areas , with benefits estimated to be roughly nine times that sum . fortifying co2 products at costs as little as $ 0.12 per person or a year . we know that the risk of iron deficiency gives rise to cognitive and developmental challenges , and we are aware of the challenge of all .
even among more near-term projects , some – for example , retrofitting buildings with more energy-efficient features – could become viable with policymakers ’ actions . the largest scope for renewed private-sector investment is in capital-intensive sectors , where the government has a significant presence as regulator . many projects , from airports to university campuses , benefit from returns over a number of decades , which implies that weak demand in the short term will have only a limited effect on their overall viability . standardization and liberalization in european telecoms have underpinned 9 % growth in value added and productivity in this period , versus 6 % growth in the us . even if european countries accounted for just 10 % of variation in capital stock per tradable worker , the impact could be more than € 360 billion in additional investment , offsetting € 354 billion worth of private-sector investment from 2007 to 2011 .
the question , then , is whether the growth differential will remain as low at this point today . those who believe that it will , typically rely on three arguments , all of which require certain sets of qualification . first , they argue , that much convergence has already been made in manufacturing . as a result , the growth differential between the emerging and advanced economies ’ growth rates – aggregated from imf data , and including hong kong , singapore , south korea , and taiwan in the emerging group – has declined considerably . indeed , after averaging three percentage points over two decades and rising to 4.8 percentage points in 2010 , the percentage-point differential dropped to 2.5 last year , and is expected to amount to little more than 1.5 this year .
these include high levels of public and private debt , weak institutions , over-regulated markets , and , still-incomplete balance-sheet corrections on a portion of corporations and banks . in practice , the proliferation of new safeguards imposed high levels of moral hazard , creating perverse incentives for governments and market entrants . making matters worse , the single-minded focus on solidarity means that the eurozone ’s true problems have gone unaddressed . the current situation in italy should serve as a warning to all those advocating for risk sharing . under the latest eurozone economic reforms , the principle that those who assume risk should be provided should have replaced a common liability principle , one that encourages financial transfers on an unprecedented scale when crises hit .
but 2004 was also a grim setback for russian president vladimir putin , who attempted to introduce his favored presidential candidate , viktor yanukovych , into power in kyiv by backing massive vote manipulation . the formation of a fledgling eurasia union was an essential part of his own platform . the failure dealt a bitter blow to the kremlin , one that was neither forgiven nor forgotten . a break with the past did not occur , because political infighting among the country ’s new leaders blocked implementation of any serious reform agenda . then , in 2010 , yanukovych ’s orange revolution ’s default brought yanukovych to power in a free and fair election , and , in 2012 , putin chose himself for a third presidential term in russia .
following the east asia crisis of 1997 , seven years of capital flight arrived . the third cycle of inflows occurred in 2004-2011 , reversing even through the global financial crisis . are a few data points and biblical parable enough to take the hypothesis of a 15-year time seriously ? if history repeats itself , it is now time for the third “ sudden stop ” of capital flows to emerging markets . perhaps , with some lines of causal theories that might explain such periodicity of international capital flows .
they , in turn , would have secured the votes for the federal government to presume and repay the states ’ bankrupt debts . hamilton ’s task was both easier and harder than we are today . despite vast costs – more than half of fledgling us government expenditures in early years went to debt service , the economy shook off the 1780 ’s depression and entered into a growth rut . a responsible fiscal state emerged out of that grand compromise with the us . jefferson and madison did n’t want the closer countries ’ capital to the north , and hamilton grudgingly agreed to encourage displacement to an area carved up by virginia or maryland .
as we document in a new report , digital ids have the potential to drive down fraud rates , slashed customer onboarding costs , boost financial inclusion , and deepen the savings and loan of under-banked customers . they can also spur development , by enabling digital talent matching and streamlined employee verification , resulting in higher labor-market participation . as it stands , digital ids could even establish a means to control data , and digital id footprints in interconnected online ecosystems . digital id could play an even more expansionary role in how individuals and institutions interact . digital id systems that succeed in driving high-level adoption might generate major economic value for individuals , corporations , and governments .
if revolutions continue to apace , it will disband into incompetence , disillusionment , frenzied witch-hunts , and a recurring cycle of violence . but , if the revolution is aborted , its leaders will be unmasked like empty windbags . the first 1917 overthrew czar nicholas ii and created a provisional government , which , spearheaded by the socialist leader alexander kerensky , turned out to be a transitional blip . lenin described kerensky as the “ balalaika ” played by the old order to continue deceiving peasant communities and peasants . yet the second revolution – which brought lenin and the bolsheviks to power – produced a regime that was no less vulnerable to accusations of treason .
this regulatory architecture would leave the fed free to speak openly about developing the financial system as a whole , without worrying about the implications for individual institutions for their own care . moreover , such a solution would safeguard the fed ’s crucial autonomy about its monetary-policy role . the crisis demonstrated that the us needs this plain talking . below it does the opportunity to form a single banking supervisor , combining the functions of the comptroller ’s office , thrift supervision ’s office , and regulatory functions of regional feds . moreover , such a solution would protect the fed ’s crucial autonomy over its monetary-policy role .
in india , for example , there is fear that small mom-and-pop retailers will be crushed as wal-mart navigates the market in the coming months . but policymakers must recognize that there are ways to protect small vendors without stifling competition . asian policymakers need to remember how they successfully develop their manufacturing sector – through competition . the government can , say , impose zoning regulations , helping small retailers detect specialized niches in the market , or provide skills training to displaced workers . the survival of artisanal retailers should not be used as a pretext to introduce or to uphold business regulations that ultimately protect the incumbent rich .
toulouse – when history punishes those who fail to learn from it , financial history does its punishing with a sadistic spin – it also punishes those who learn from it too enthusiastically . time and again , financial crises have reflected the vulnerabilities of regulatory regimes , founded upon lessons learned from earlier crises . today ’s crisis is no exception ; nor will another one . the postwar global system of financial regulation was set up on three supposed lessons from the 1930 ’s . first , we believed that the key reason for the failure of banks to fail was that their depositors panic , not that central depositors ’ panic , when a bank becomes in danger of failure .
for china , the biggest prize is the bilateral investment treaty ( bit ) . such an accord would be a near-term boon for xi , because it represents a vote of american confidence in america ’s struggling economy in china ’s struggling economy . yet the prospects for doing too little are shaky , at best . the american congress is deeply skeptical , and the american business community needs compelling . in practical terms , a us-china brexit would make it easier for chinese actors to invest and operate in the us , and enhance american firms ’ access to chinese markets .
this is particularly interesting because it fundamentally rejects one of al gore ’s most harrowing scenes . back in graphic detail , gore showed how a 20-foot sea-level rise would inundate much of florida , shanghai , and holland . the report also disclosed the improbability of another gore scenario : that global warming might turn the gulf shut down , turned europe into a new siberia . the ipcc report makes it clear that exaggerations of that magnitude have no established cause in science , however clearly alarmed , and perhaps he will win gore ’s academy award . what the ipcc simply and tersely tells us that this scenario – also vividly portrayed in a hollywood movie day after tomorrow – is viewed as “ very unlikely . ”
it is important to note that china can still reduce the bilateral trade surplus against any particular partner , even as its overall surplus increases . and , even as import expo expands , rather than decreases , the country ’s overall trade surplus – it may well have other benefits . for starters , lowering the costs for us imports will increase chinese households ’ purchasing power and access to goods that may improve their quality of life . chinese firms , too , will benefit from a lower cost to foreign-made components and equipment that boost their global competitiveness – another channel through which lower import barriers may end up bolstering their exports . finally , international import expo will complement china ’s other market-oriented measures , including lower entry barriers to foreign financial firms .
across the west , many are questioning whether russia will continue to deploy natural gas as a means to place economic and political pressure on ukraine , georgian , and other countries in what the kremlin regards as its “ near abroad ” ” . using the ” energy weapon , the ” ” ” is not simply a tactic : it is at the heart of the prevailing doctrine guiding russian foreign policy . russia ’s moves toward the post-soviet countries are rooted in the doctrine of a “ liberal empire , ” ” ” ” ” according to which russia ’s prominent government-run and private companies should assume control of key economic entities across the former soviet republics ’ territories by acquiring their assets . against this background , the word “ liberal ” should be understood to suggest that the empire of the “ new russian dream ” ” ” ” ” ” should be built on purely economic means , excluding all forcible action against other peoples . naturally , a key role in such a model is granted to post-soviet countries .
cambridge – the united states congress is close to enacting a major tax reform . i dislike budget deficits and have long been warning of their dangerous effects . nonetheless , i am confident that the economic benefits implied by the corporate-tax changes will outweigh the adverse consequences of increased debt . the highest-level plan provision reduces the corporate-tax rate from 35 % to 20 % – from the highest among all oecd countries to one of the lowest , enabling us companies to repatriate their foreign subsidiaries ’ profits without putting additional american taxes to pay . opponents of the dodd-frank legislation highlight the resulting rise in the federal budget deficit , adding $ 1.5 trillion to us government debt over the next ten years .
these moves are typically justified as policies to boost domestic demand , but they end up fueling a surrogate , lower-grade currency war . to see why , consider the case of japan . we need a group of major economies – call it the “ asean major-sounding ” – that announces monetary policies in a coordinated fashion . japanese policymakers have good reason to attempt to promote some inflation , and even to correct some of the yen ’s secular appreciation over the last six or seven years . but , in today ’s unilateral world , other central banks would quickly respond by injecting liquidity , thereby spurring the bank of japan to act yet again .
the discrepancy in economic performance under democratic and republican presidents is consistent and substantial , with disparities clearly above the threshold for statistical significance . if one steps back further , to include herbert hoover and franklin d. roosevelt ; the mismatch is even greater . princeton university economists alan blinder and mark watson confirmed this democratic dividend in a recent study . their starting point is the observation that in the post-world war ii period ( from harry truman to barack obama ) , annual gdp growth averaged 4.3 % over the course of democratic administrations , compared to 2.5 % under republican presidents . the results are similar even if one assigns responsibility for the first three months – or the first few quarters – of a president ’s term for his predecessor .
it is just as preposterous to tell venezuelan demonstrators the same thing . venezuelans would like nothing better than to be the ones who determine their own destiny , yet democratic means to do so are being denied to them . indeed , one of the key opposition leaders , leon lópez , has been arrested on ludicrous charges of “ inciting crime . ” terms in office have defied prosecutor-general , members of the national election commission , and supreme court justices , but no successors have been named , because maduro remains reluctant to negotiate with the opposition and lacks the two-thirds majority in the national assembly needed to appoint the officials of his select . it would be preposterous to tell ukrainian demonstrators facing government storm troopers to ease and bear it , without outside solidarity or support .
for one thing , it is easy to see why . classical socialism is the offspring of liberal internationalism , which is to say that it is a globalizing creed ; in principle , it knows no national frontiers . yet , in the face of widespread economic-policy crack-ups , internationalism becomes precisely the tip of the question . true , far-left parties have also forged advances since the post-crisis slump . but history suggests that nationalists have the most to gain from episodes of political and social breakdown .
london – “ what if that is as good as it gets to be ? ” jack nicholson asks , as she walks through his psychiatrist ’s waiting room in eponymous movie . many now wonder whether china ’s current gdp growth rate will be as good as it will last for a long time to come . at the recent g-20 finance ministers ’ meeting in shanghai , the participants questioned the same question , and not just with regard to medium-term expectations of weak global growth . determining the validity of such fears will require understanding what drives china ’s economic slowdown .
that agenda lies in direct conflict with the interests of the global capital and of the governments that grew accustomed to operating without citizen oversight . it is a conflict that can be expected to be heighten dramatically in 2012 , as protesters ’ agendas , from occupying wall street to occupying moscow , gain further coherence . overwhelmingly , they want simple democracy and economic self-determination . the internet also disseminates the templates of what a true democracy looks like – instantly and globally . not surprisingly , people use this technology in ways that implied that they have little appetite for becoming cordoned off into conflicting and competing ethnicities , national , or even religious identities .
but three of the european union ’s four largest economies – france , italy , and the united kingdom – all have large debts and annual deficits , which point to even higher future debt-to-gdp ratios . a rising level of national debt absorbs funds that would otherwise be made available to finance productivity-enhancing business investment . when interest rates rise , as surely they must , the cost of servicing the debt will demand higher taxes , hurting economic incentives , and weakening economic activity . that , in turn , is an alarming prospect for all of all to see . firms now worry that rising deficits might lead to higher taxes , further discouraging investment .
the economy ’s fastest growing sectors since the late nineteenth century were these loosely classified as “ service industries , ” ” often including diffusion of information and entertainment , activities in which jews were particularly prominent , from publishing to vaudeville and movies to commercial sports . they pioneered new retail institutions , from department stores to box shops . they also tended to do disproportionately well on learned occupations – like medicine , the rule of law , and accounting – that are so central to a modern , capitalist society . the fact that jews were long a minority subject for discrimination is sometimes given as a justification for their tendency to dedicate themselves to commerce , finance , and occupations . yet not all minorities have long subject to discrimination necessarily succeeding under market competition .
so far , sustainable infrastructure has been financed mostly by multilateral and national development banks ( mdbs and ndbs ) . vert-infra initially covers four subsectors of sustainable infrastructure : energy , energy storage , transportation , and buildings with special emphasis on projects in urban areas . crowding out private capital will therefore hold the key to closing the investment gap . to help scale up the development and financing of sustainable infrastructure in low – and middle-income economies – we propose a new holistic framework , developed by the one plant-based working group on sustainable infrastructure financing , of which one in the us ( déséglise ) is a member . frameworks , called the sdg vision for an ecologically responsible transition , and “ vert-infra ” for help unlock project pipelines and develop sustainable infrastructure as an asset class , thereby opening the door to large-scale investment by institutional investors worldwide .
moreover , the new superpower with its own geopolitical interests – namely , china and india – has come onto the international scene . without the support of both china and india , america ’s middle east policies can no longer succeed ; on the contrary , this level of support is given only a half-heartedly – if at all . in this tangled knot of regional wars , crises , and conflicts , iran ’s nuclear ambitions seem like a ticking time bomb , with a sufficient number of new dynamite dominating resources throughout the region . a success for american policy in such a region holds very limited interests in beijing and new delhi , and europe is neither willing nor able nor able to make substantial contributions . today , after the world ’s financial and economic crisis ( and in sharp contrast to 2001 ) , the united states appears crucially weakened .
creative destruction ( reinforced by economic openness and technology ) sweeping the rest of the world . true , it gives energetic people formerly on the sidelines . but this is no longer entirely the american story , we know it . skeptics hold arguing that competition and technology wreak havoc on societies ’ harmony ; that it generates inequality and eviscerates the middle class . true , a new economy makes difficult for those who sit back and live at the expense of stockholders or consumer taxpayers .
a further step in the review on cancer screening came early last year , when researchers at the dartmouth medical policy institute announced that the costs of breast-cancer screening were often minimized , and the benefits were much exaggerated . chest x-rays for lung cancer and pap tests for cervical cancer have been given a similar , albeit less definitive , critique . a similar , albeit less definitive , critique has been learned by chest x-rays for lung cancer and pap tests . a further step in the revaluation of cancer screening came last year , when researchers at the us national institutes of health announced that the costs of breast-cancer screening were often minimized , and the benefits were much exaggerated . chest x-rays for lung cancer and pap tests for cervical cancer received a similar , albeit less definitive , critique .
a new study argues that there is now more than 70 % chance that the world ’s population will not peak this century , at an estimated 80 % chance of reaching 9,6-12.3 billion people by 2100 . this is important because a rising population may prove an even bigger problem than previously thought . fortunately , there is a cost-effective way to slow this saving engine : improving women ’s access to advanced contraception . in fact , sub-saharan africa – persistently the world ’s poorest region – will be the main demographic engine . providing contraception for 215 million more women worldwide – a large share coming from africa – who want to escape pregnancy will cost about $ 3.6 trillion annually .
unlike the mexican , chinese , or russian revolutions , economic disenfranchisement do not drive the current conflict . the key problem in iraq does not lie jobs in the first place . relative to mexican , chinese , or russian revolutions , economic disenfranchisement is not driving the current conflict . at the same time , state-owned enterprises should be coming freely to bid , yet they should receive no favors . the root causes are political , sectarian , and personal .
this was true even during the cold war , and remains true today , yet mccain does not seem to recognize it . on russia since its invasion of georgia , obama , and his running mate , joe biden ( who was the first-ever post-soviet member of georgia to visit georgia following the invasion ) , emphasize helping georgian reconstruction and preserving its independence in the face of an ongoing russo-georgian campaign against it . mccain , by contrast , wants to punish russia through actions such as chanting it from the g-8 . such actions may ultimately prove necessary , but they will not help georgia survive as an independent democracy . moreover , even after the outrage in georgia over the issues of common interest – such as energy , climate change , and iran – upon which the west and the kremlin must cooperate .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of heightened challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . the targeted killing by the united states by one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already had their decades in war , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months .
in libya , the implosion of colonel muammar el-qaddafi ’s regime has thrown the country into turmoil and decimated central-government authority . central authority is eroding once the country continues a splinter into ethnic and sectarian regions , with a de facto kurdish sovereign state already well established in the north . the south remains lawless , whereas the east wielded the shia regional leadership of benghazi ; only the west remains subject to the poorly consolidated government in tripoli . meanwhile , in yemen , its chances of adequate central authority are slipping away as the country confronts a number of seemingly intractable problems – from internal divisions and separatist movements to al qaeda ’s franchise in the arabian peninsula and a faltering economy . southerners ( aden ) and eastward ( hadramaut ) are both on a trajectory toward independence , dragging yemen into yet another secession struggle almost 25 years after the country ’s fragile unification movement .
london – in the aftermath of the 2008 global financial crisis , a broad consensus emerged that the public sector was responsible for intervention to bail out systemically important banks and spur economic growth . but that consensus turned out to be short-lived , and soon the public-sector ’s economic interventions came to be viewed as the root of the crisis , and thus required to reverse course . in europe , notably , governments were lambasted for their high debts , even though private debt , not public borrowing , caused the meltdown . many were instructed to introduce austerity , rather than stimulating growth with countercyclical policies . this turned out to be a grave error .
in pasok , the greek socialist party that i lead is implementing far-reaching reforms in this direction . in pasok , the greek socialist party that i lead is implementing far-reaching reforms in this direction . this means welcoming migrants and other minorities , creating more opportunities for women and disabilities , and empowering citizens through education and participation . empowering citizens means giving them both the power to decide and the knowledge they need to decide well . likewise , the socialist international ’s goal is a world governed not by free markets but by liberty .
contrary to europe , the united states is emerging as the developed world ’s strongest economy . the banking and household sectors have , of course , made some headway in deleveraging . indeed , according to the european central bank , the euro could destroy the eu altogether . as a result , quantitative easing has boosted asset values . shale energy has given america an important competitive advantage in manufacturing , first and foremost in petrochemicals .
even as the chinese were feeling incensed by foreign interference and domination , many at the time seemed to admire america for its democracy , openness , energy , and willingness to help it . this skewed attitude meant that china tended to react in ways that were impassioned and unpredictable , particularly as its pride was piqued . nothing provoked a more muscular reaction after mao came to power than the humiliating prospect of feeling inability to resist foreign predation . yet , by mid erdoğan , when i first went to china during the cultural revolution , scarcely emblazoned with the slogan : “ down with american imperialism and its running dogs . ” nothing was more repugnant to china ’s fledgling nationalists than the notion of the fragile and aggrieved china victimized by foreign exploitation .
third , we face steeply rising prices for fossil fuels as developed countries ’ growth drives up demand and conventional supplies of coal , oil , and gas depletes supply . shale-gas wells deplete far more rapidly than conventional fields do . and they are environmentally dirty through retooling . even the much-heralded shale-gas revolution holds many more hype , akin to the gilets jaunes and past stock bubbles . to be sure , we may be able to find more fossil fuels , but at a far higher cost and at far greater ecological risks from industrial spills , waste products , leaks , and other damages .
london – the united kingdom ’s brexit general election is polling a little more than a month away , yet already the campaign looks set to go with the us forever , rolling implacably forward , but with little indication of any genuine agitation or even substantial movement in the polls . support for the two major contenders , the labor party and the ruling conservative party , seems stuck in what is on the old 30s . conservatives are hoping that the government ’s record on the economy convinces undecided voters to subvert them in their favor late in the campaign . perhaps they are right ; they deserve to be able to be . in the meantime , labour seems to hope for who-knows-what to turn the tide , while keeping their collective footfingers crossed that should not be eviscerated in scotland , where the scotland national party threatens to stockpile the council .
is it really an american tradition that seems to disregard what happens to others ? is it really an american tradition that responds to what happens to others ? the second insight from psychological research , summarized by bruce hood in his recent book the self delusion , concerns the role of consciousness in decision-making . recent laboratory research shows that our conscious thoughts devise , ex post , compelling rationales for the many decisions that our brains tend to render them illegitimate . for example , former us president george w. bush might have opted for invasion of iraq and topple saddam hussein for a number of reasons : strategic advantage , humanitarian concern , and even competition with his father .
fiscal restraint as reflected low government consumption relative to income growth also matters . protecting property rights , including civil and political liberties , protection from random forms of violence is among the rest of the important determinants of spurring economic growth . geographic location matters equally , because such things as the distance from markets , the bad climates , and poor soils impede economic growth throughout the developing world . other factors besides trade policy also matter . yet this makes implementing open-ended trade policies all the more critical , for it is the best tools available to compensate through bad cards that nature sometimes makes ends meet .
durham , north carolina – my day starts with a live coffee live cup and ending hot chocolate with each other . in between , i consume a wide variety of foods and pharmaceuticals , including my daily 81 mg dose of aspirin . a brightly colorful orchid enlivens my study and , through a window , i catch a glimpse of my “ green garden . ” in short , my own life , like everyone ’s , is enabled , enriched , and extended by a wide range of plants and their derivatives . but the biodiversity upon which all of us depend comes under threat because of human actions ’ devastates and other plant-rich habitats .
ramallah – israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu ’s decision to approve new jewish settlements on the eve of a possible settlement freeze is the latest round in a row that has been repeated so many times over the last 40 years that it would appear mundane were it not so dangerous . what the peace process , not surprising , becomes is the one while that doing so . the cycle goes something similar : american or international pressure mounts on israel to stop settlement activity in the occupied territories . eventually , world pressure subsides , and a freeze does not materialize . israeli settlers and their supporters then assemble even more power to expand onto more palestinian land , to build more strictly jewish settlements , and to destroy more arab homes in advance of the so-called “ freeze ” comes in effect .
san francisco -- there is a big difference between the us federal reserve ’s mandate to maintain “ stable prices ” – as reunciated in the us federal reserve act and the fed ’s self-selected target of 2 % annual inflation . the term “ stable prices ” is self-explanatory : a bundle of goods will cost the same ten , 50 , or even 100 years from now . by contrast , if a country experiences 2 % inflation over an often-charged supply and has similar things that every $ 100 may buy today will an annual rate of 122 by the end of the decade . after 100 years , that price tag will be a whopping $ 724 . so , just how is it that policymakers have managed to replace the latter ?
as a liberal myself , i share these values , but recognize that insisting on them is a matter of policy that ultimately undermines the interests of migrants . with vehemently anti-immigrant political forces gaining ground throughout europe , one must ask whether newcomers desperate for a job are better served by being admitted on a conditional basis ( including , potentially , a limited period ) or by being acknowledged at all . skills-biased immigration embody a similar dilemma . many in europe argue that this approach not only discriminates against the weakest groups of migrants , but also leads to brain drain from countries that need highly skilled workers . but , again , one must revisit the trade-off .
instead , the reforms were decreed high above without having some grassroots support – and thus not for durable durability . all we had been put on a straight basis to the wall and the masses , rather than on encouragement to deliver a genuine social consensus . such a direct scheme is the wellspring of authoritarianism . we must recognize that and understand that it emerges not only when the public becomes apathetic or frightened , but also when there is no obvious stable , advanced guard , such as the powerful , and the control of leaders . as a result , russia now confronts a situation in which the us presidential election is the only political issue .
and a eurozone-wide tariff of 20.8 % far exceeds a 8.7 % ratio . to be sure , a youth unemployment ratio of 13 % or 19 % is not grounds for complacency . during the 2006 french student protests in france , france ’s own 22 % youth unemployment rate appeared to compare unfavorably with the rates of 11 % , 12 % , and 13 % in the united kingdom , france , the us , and germany , respectively . likewise , greece ’s rate is 49.3 % , but its gdp ratio stands at only 13 % . but , while europe ’s youth unemployment rate has risen since 2009 , its ratios have remained the same ( albeit both well above the pre-2008 level ) .
reserve status for the sdr is a long-held imf ambition , though the idea has never gained much traction . alternatively , china might end up being a new supplier of reserve assets . that connection could be direct , as long as the renminbi acquires reserve-currency status ; or indirect , if the international monetary fund ’s unit of account , special drawing rights ( sdrs ) , it becomes a favored asset of reserve managers , because the renminbi is now in sdr basket . as part of this scenario , a reserve asset supply would align with the world ’s fast-growing regions . but there is a third possibility : global demand for us reserve assets may subside .
trump has pledged to implement sweeping tax cuts , including reductions in the corporate-tax rate , from 35 % to 15 % . add to that plans to subsidize infrastructure investment and boost us military expenditure , and america seems likely to be going along with rapidly rising fiscal deficits and massive short-term demand increases . with america ’s economy already operating at near full capacity ( with unemployment at less than 5 % ) , higher imports , and a stronger american dollar , he will need to meet that demand . all of this will be good for the eurozone , for which the us remains a leading export market . but it is the peripheral countries that probably stand to benefit the most .
princeton – over the past century , economic-policy discourse has seared down in orbit around the respective roles and virtues of the state and the market . this old debate lies at the heart of today ’s profound divisions over how europe should respond to its own debt crisis . does market controls the state , in the sense that it sets a limit on governments ’ ability to borrow ? or does a state take charge when a market does not perform socially essential function – like fighting wars or maintaining full employment ? the same question is dividing american policy in the run-up to november ’s us presidential and congressional elections .
this means that the leave camp has a powerful incentive to fulfill its own self-fulfilling prophecy . british negotiators will then respond to eu negotiators ’ domino-theory by trying to make the process as painful as possible for the rest of the eu . the second doom loop relates to the uk ’s domestic political economy . britain simply can not begin to pander to europeans at its own game by revitalizing its automobile industry , or by barring its own wine to rival french and italian manufacturers . indeed , the uk ’s “ leave ” constituency has already firmly believes that the uk would be better off on its own , and that brexit hurts europeans far more than it hurts britons .
the excess domestic demand that has underpinned this evolution is now gone , permanently . when deleveraging in the household sector is complete , domestic spending could rebound , but the saving rate will not and should not return to zero . fiscal stimulus , in the form of backloading deficit-reduction efforts , might help to tide the economy over , while structural adaptation and expansion of competitiveness would continue . alternatively , the shortfall in domestic demand would reassert itself as the stimulus came to an end . but , by itself , stimulus is not the answer ; it is precisely the opposite .
if america ’s war in iraq fails , the situation will hardly get worse than it is now from its narrow perspective on russian interests , while the resulting mess will present problems for america and its traditional allies , rather than for russia . so america ’s objective of regime change in baghdad does not look too badly wrong , even if it could no longer be publicly supported . the contrast between russia ’s manipulation of iraq and iran underlines not only mr. putin ’s illustrious pragmatism , but the nature and adroitness of his policies . this contrast also reflects a fundamental difference between iran , an historic national state of the nation , and the artificial creation that is at war in iraq . for president putin , it makes sense to stay on the sidelines over iraq , at least for now , and to be repaid later in response to his costly silence in the form of america ’s successor , iraqis , referring to repayment of their country ’s russian debts .
indeed , throughout the decade of yugoslavia 's wars , serbia 's attitude towards its minorities reflected a nationalist consensus within which the preponderance of what was then the opposition participated . president kostunica ’s refusal so far to even discuss establishing internationally indicted war criminals on trial is not a hopeful protesters here . no matter how much milosevic exacerbated the tensions , his policies toward kosovo 's ethnic albanians were genuinely popular among the serbs . kosovo 's skepticism about serbia 's democratic credentials derives , first from knowing that conflict between kosovo and serbia is structural , not based on a single one . the overwhelming majority of kosovars will find discuss with serbia about improved relations difficult if serbia fails to undergo some kind of de-nazification ” process .
in the end , economic sanctions compelled qaddafi to distance himself from international terror and pivot over megrahi – as did another suspect , fhima lame-duck , who was later acquitted – to confront the scottish tribunal at megrahi . but there was never inexorable evidence that megrahi was involved in the lockerbie bombing . in fact , most experts continue to believe that he was convicted of using fraudulent evidence , and that the cia bribed the witnesses as . moreover , libya formally accepted responsibility for bombing , agreeing to pay more than $ 2 billion to the victims of ’ families and abandoning its weapons of mass destruction program . yet , despite qaddafi ’s hope for a warmer embrace of western leaders ( and a flurry of investment ) , the relationship remained plagued by mutual suspicion and frequent blunders .
this experience has motivated it to establish its dangote academy , a center for talent development that aims to help fill the industrial-skills gap in nigeria and beyond . such initiatives are critical to aligning education with economic development and enhancing prosperity . without them , the continent has more to experience rising unemployment , widening inequality , and , ultimately , conflict and chaos . by 2040 , africa will have 1.1 billion working-age citizens – more than either india or china . with the right educational , skills , and job opportunities , this immense labor force could deliver rapid and sustainable economic growth throughout the region .
as a result , women are missing out on their core rights and freedoms . the violence against women in afghanistan persists for many reasons . first , the country has inherited a patriarchal tribal tradition that assumes female political inferiority . second , there is a strong political incentive to strip women of their rights . the husband of another young woman , aisha , cut off her nose and ears when she was fleeing .
but to enter europe ’s economic and monetary union ( emu ) was designed to induce the political system to pursue longer-term goals , such as productivity growth and enhanced competitiveness . initially , events played out according to schedule . during greece ’s accession to the eurozone , from 1994 to 2001 , its economy stabilized . annual gdp growth jumped from -1.6 % in 1993 to more than 4 % in 1997 – and remained around that level until february 2007 . both inflation and fiscal deficits fell rapidly ; firms and consumers became more confident ; investment picked up ; and the government imposed an ambitious package of liberalizing reforms .
the momentum toward hfo phase-out in the arctic is building . danish shipowners ’ association , and the arctic expedigruten expedigruten , are just two of the players that call for tighter regulations or outright prohibition . the european parliament , for its part , has already encouraged such a move . other shipping companies have highlighted the need for regulation to maintain a level playing field . in january 2017 , hurtigruten joined the clean arctic alliance to launch its arctic commitment .
in fact , he is among the most charismatic and charming the leaders i met ; the other two – former united nations secretary-general kofi annan and former us secretary of state colin powell – also are either un-african or “ african-american ” in their experience . little has been done in africa since the death of south african president nelson mandela , who combined courage , authority , and magnanimity in graceful abundance . for his part , john f. kennedy was slightly of both . he did one big thing : resolving the cuban missile crisis . and his gift to motivating people was misplaced ; indeed , it outlasted him , with his assassination cementing a powerful legacy .
cameroon – the rebuilding of cuba ’s diplomatic relationship with the united states unlocks new prospects for the island ’s economy . some steps , including eliminating the american trade embargo , are banned by helms-burton act , adopted by the united states congress in 1996 . but reestablishing cuba ’s membership in the international monetary fund creates a real possibility . cuba was one of the imf ’s 40 initial members . it had engaged in much preliminary planning at the 1944 bretton woods conference and had an active delegation there .
it goes without saying that academic or technical expertise is neither necessary nor sufficient to secure government officials ’ successes . indeed , many of my harvard colleagues would empower terrible policymakers , owing to a lack of managerial or managerial competence . moreover , they have the credibility that comes with a lack of desire to be reelected , either because their term in office has been limited in advance , or because they are well known to prefer quiet academic life . it goes without saying that academic or technical expertise is neither necessary nor sufficient for securing government officials ’ successes . technocrats can play a useful role as honest brokers when traditional politicians have become disenfranchised or deadlocked .
today , massive investment in critical infrastructure , industrial expansion , and urbanization – vital to accommodate an expanding global population , set to reach nine billion by 2050 – is taking place without adequate regard for disaster risk . in its absence , a comprehensive effort to protect these new economic assets will skyrocket in the decades ahead . in that sense , climate-change prediction should challenge policymakers and business leaders to reintroduce their perceptions of exposure and disaster risk . decision-makers must recognize that none of this is a natural disaster ; there is only a catastrophic impact on natural hazards for infrastructure , including workplaces , homes , roads , schools , and hospitals . following the 2004 indian ocean tsunami – which devastated coastlines across 11 countries ’ s states , resulting in more than 150,000 deaths , one half-million injuries , and more than $ 10 billion in damages , 168 governments agreed on the hyogo framework for action ( hfa ) – a robust , high-priority , post-disaster mitigation plan .
in september , nature-based solutions featured prominently at the un climate week in new york city . though that event did not live up to un secretary-general antónio guterres ’s call for bold steps toward enhance globally determined contributions by 2020 , it offered a platform for a new generation of climate action and nature ’s proponents . two years ago , researchers from the nature conservancy and its partners published new research showcasing nature-based decision-making obama ’s potential to fight climate change . still , natural climate solutions have continued to attract relatively little human attention , and an even smaller funding base . fortunately , this may , too , be starting to change in somalia .
indeed , iranians ’ show of popular support for rouhani provides the best ensure that the spirit behind the nuclear deal will remain unchanged . to ensure that iran continues to advance toward international engagement , thereby protecting the iran nuclear deal that trump is not keen to defend – rouhani ’s administration will need to work hard to improve relations with arab countries . moreover , he will need to adopt a more constructive position vis-à-vis the syrian conflict , thereby making it clear that iran is not spearheading the kurdish liberation movement . but trump will not make it easy for rouhani to work . just a few weeks ago , at a time when the us was reportedly pressed to admit that rouhani is fulfilling his part of the nuclear deal .
ludicrous cases continue , and more people are being pulled into them . at the same time , these cases will eventually collapse under the weight of their collective absurdity . but the damage done will extend far beyond the suffering of hundreds of innocent individuals locked on false pretenses . hope that turkey is finally throwing its authoritarian vestiges and becoming a stable democracy will lie in tatters . mainstream independent media certainly wo n’t even report the inconsistencies for fear of provoking a government or gülen network .
more recently , chinese foreign minister wang yi has pledged assistance to russia . but russia is unlikely to draw upon this kind of emergency credit line in the current crisis . in short , both the western-dominated governance mechanisms and the brics ’ fledgling institutions have turned toward russia . but his vague language reflected larger hesitations , which will most likely persist until the crisis pass . likewise , in july , the brics created a kind of “ contingent reserve arrangement ” that would , it was argued , “ forestall short-term balance-of-payment pressures , provide reciprocal support , and further enhance financial stability . ”
they will also try to reduce japan ’s dependence on us exports and rethink sending its production facilities to lower-wage countries . continued congressional polarization would maintain policy uncertainty , confound debt , and deficit negotiations , impeding economic growth . in other countries , the causal direction runs , first and foremost , from economics to politics . the economic impact of politics in the us , while important , will be far less dynamic : absent a more cooperative congress , politics will mute policy responses , rather than fuel greater activism . from stymieing medium-term fiscal reforms to delaying needed overhauls in us labor and housing markets , congressional dysfunction will keep america ’s economic performance lower than its capacity ; over time , it will also eat away at potential output .
paris – the riots that rampaged across greece may have many causes , but one that rarely appears to mention was the fracturing of the greek left into georpapandreou ’s traditional socialist party , pasok , and an increasingly radicalized faction that refuses all accommodation with either the european union or modern economics . that the traditional left is so inert in the midst of today ’s economic crisis is more than odd . to varying degrees , this divide is paralyzing socialist parties across europe . in countries where they hold power , such as spain is now highly unpopular . where they are in opposition , as in france and italy , they are in disarray , as are germany ’s social democrats , despite their being part of the ruling grand coalition .
the reaction to 9/11 , and to dominique strauss-kahn ’s recent meeting with the all-girl at the new york hotel in france , has very little in common , other than one thing : once again , a cultural conflict has been invoked in misleading ways . one allegation , coined most recently by a well-known french publicist , is that france ’s arrest was the typical of america ’s puritanism . whatever happened between the international monetary fund ’s former managing director and its accusers , the fact that it was arrested and paraded before the press as a criminal suspects has been much criticized in france . one allegation , made recently by a widely read french publicist , is that the arrests were typical of america ’s puritanism . the reaction to 9/11 , and to dominique strauss-kahn ’s recent meeting with an african-american chambermaid in a new york hotel have very little in common except for one thing : once again , a cultural conflict has been invoked in misleading ways .
the targeted killing by the united states by one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . and that shift would occur at a time of heightened challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 that what will weigh on the present for many years to come .
the success of their acts of defiance shows the force of the idea , which bewilders outgoing president leonid kuchma and his acolytes : that democracy means assuming responsibility for one ’s fate in a single one ’s own hands . self-confidence among the governed and prudence among the rulers : these are the psychological springs of democracy and true freedom , and they can never be diverted again in our own homeland . nobody ever doubted that ukraine had changed vastly in its twelve years of independence . yet , caught up in the sights of a gun barrel , nobody – not even the courageous men and women who camped in their hundreds of thousands in the snow before ukraine ’s parliament – knows with certainty whether those changes have wrenched ukrainians from their grip of fear and apathy . at the same time , they have reason to feel proud of them .
while previous prime ministers like menachem begin and yitzhak shamir have not been averse to lecturing , they have lacked a strategic cunning . moreover , netanyahu ’s unsentimental judging middle east does not line up for the fact that the obama administration , in thrall to his collapsing romanticisms , and his devoted supporters among jewish americans . israeli prime ministers are supposedly coming in two varieties : massively accented east european men and grizzled military officers who speak good game before acquiescing to the most recent american or international requirements for concessions , talks , and aid . netanyahu ’s unwillingness to compromise disconcerts , to confuses , and to enrages americans . his relentless disquisitions on israel ’s strategic environment , security imperatives , red lines , and jewish history are offset only by conciliatory talks that are immediately rejected by palestinians , who , like him , fear of showing weakness .
the british public , for example , did not regard winston churchill as the charismatic leader of 1939 , but a year later his vision , trust , and communications skill had given him charisma , owing to britons ’ anxieties after france ’s collapse and a dunkirk evacuation . his charisma failed to predict defeat ; the changing nature of his followers ’ needs has done so . in practice , charisma is a vague synonym for “ personal magnetism ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” churchill voted from office , too . followers would , more often than not , attribute charisma to leaders when they feel a strong need for change , often in the domain of personal , organizational , or social crises . and then , in 1945 , following the public ’s focus from winning war to constructing the welfare state , churchill voted out of office .
at the same time , the government has secured eu-wide agreement that , rather than reducing the size of the european commission , ireland will be allowed to retain its permanent seat on the commission table . this negotiating success has given the government considerable breathing space to conduct of a more effective referendum campaign . this combination of legal guarantees and changed economic circumstances helps to mobilize majorities in the treaty ’s favor . but the picture is far from clear-cut . opinion polls conducted over the last few weeks indicate that the yes party commands a strong majority from 62 % to 23 % , with about 15 % undecided voters .
eu member states already have such practices , and so should the eu . the solution is not meddle with rules of competition , but rather to give those in charge of security some say in the decision-making process . finally , the eu must do more to develop its own financial toolkit and promote international use of europe . a decision to reject a merger or authorize investment that rewards a politically motivated foreign competitor could make economic sense while raising eyebrows in foreign-policy circles . to this end , in a forthcoming paper that i co-authored with foreign-policy experts and other economists , we propose that the eu high representative for foreign affairs and security be given a prerogative to object on safety grounds to the european commission ’s proposed mergers or investment decisions .
whereas the west lost no time in imposing sanctions on president vladimir putin ’s russia following its annexation of crimea , it did little to punish israel ’s occupation of palestinian territories . ngos focused on human rights and peacemaking are scrutinized as foreign agents . for israel , a parliamentary democracy has always been a strategic asset , because a democratic israel was a natural fit for a western alliance . the more israel embraces putin-inspired practices , however weaker , becomes its link to its strategic rearguard operations in the west . a newly passing bill , clearly targeting israeli arabs in the knesset ( parliament ) , would allow the stationing to be dismissed for disloyalty to the nation-state .
to what extent should us political leaders see their role narrowly in promoting their citizens ’ interests , and to what extent should concern people ’s welfare everywhere ? in kosovo ’s restriction of intervention to aerial bombardment has made that strategy an overall success : nato forces have suffered not as a single casualty in the fighting , but around 300 kosovar , 209 serb , and 3 chinese civilians . norwegian prime minister romano prodi , the eu ’s former prime minister and italy ’s larry summers , has responded to president barack obama ’s most early statements by saying that “ if one wants to be a global leader , one must know how to look after the whole earth , and not just american industry . ” this attitude to the duty of a national leader – stated bluntly and honestly – forces the us to consider a fundamental ethical issue . but the question is not just one for those aspiring to be world leaders .
on both sides of these fronts , the eu ’s lack of strategic vision has created the impression that europe is repeatedly out-maneuvered by russian president vladimir putin . indeed , the situation in ukraine represents a tactical victory for russia , with its fragile but enduring truce – and the accompanying legislation granting aid to donetsk and luhansk sizeable political autonomy – thereby enabling russia to entrench the conflict near the eu ’s borders . in europe , the kremlin has been able to pursue a successful divide-and-rule strategy , particularly in view of hungary ’s decision to suspend gas flows to ukraine . moreover , delayed implementation of key elements of the eu ’s association agreement with ukraine signals that , at present , russia dictates eu-ukrainian engagement terms . ukraine increasingly seems set to become locked in a “ frozen conflict ” – russia ’s foreign-policy malaise .
with the weaker dollar hanging like the sword of damocles over the global economy , almost everyone laments america ’s spendthrift habits . at a time when was already the last such thing to happen ? owing to america ’s gaping trade deficits , the biggest headache of every developing country ’s finance minister nowadays tries to keep his or her country ’s currency from going up too far against the us dollar . the chronic debt-distressed countries , from mexico to russia to brazil , are all battling capital inflows from investors looking for the exits as the us dollar collapses . but have that ever occurred to strange how tough americans must work to force everyone else to look good ?
new york – hurricane harvey has left in its wake upended lives and immense wealth damage , estimated by some at $ 150-180 billion . to be sure , it is ironic that an event so connected to climate change would occur in a state that is home to so many climate-change deniers , and where the economy depends so heavily on the fossil-fuel industry that is driving global warming . to be sure , none of the specific climatic events can have to be related directly to the rise in greenhouse gases in the atmosphere . but the rains hammered out in texas for a better part of a week , together with a hurricane hitting south florida , also raise deep questions about the united states ’ economic system and politics . but researchers have long predicted that such increases would spur not only average temperatures , but also weather variability – and , especially , an occurrence in extreme events like hurricane harvey .
the eu was founded on a mechanical notion that interdependence would reduce conflict . by linking european means of production together – first through the european coal and steel community , and later through the common market and europe , the eu hoped to bind european states together so closely that the war between them would no longer be an option . pro-europeans need to associate themselves with the sources of discontent , and to rethink the forms used to voice europe ’s ideal . rather than banding together , each new challenge has divided the eu into ever-smaller groups . europe has divided north and south ; ukraine and the refugee crisis have divided east and west , respectively .
in nigeria today , the key question nowadays is not whether president olusegun obasanjo will quit after his second ( and final ) term expires next year , but who will succeed him . given nigeria ’s history of sit-tight military dictatorships , that seems to be real progress . unfortunately , that is not necessarily a president who does . attempts by obasanjo ’s supporters to persuade the national assembly to amend the constitution to allow obasanjo to continue in office beyond two terms have met a robust wall of opposition . government and business activity virtually ground to halt this spring , as democracy activists , in an alliance with policymakers and legislators opposed a third term , battled obasanjo ’s ally to thwart the proposed bill .
parfit ’s reaction to this line of argument leads him to make the argument that , perhaps , is bolder than his defense of objectivism in ethics . when parfit is right , there is much less disagreement among apparently conflicting moral theories than all we thought we could . consider three leading theories about what we propose , one deriving from kant , one from the society-focused tradition of hobnobbing , locke , rousseau , and contemporary philosophers , john rawls and t.m. scanlon , and one from bentham ’s utilitarianism , arguing that kantian and social-contract theories must be revised toward defensible . he then argues that these revised theories coincide with a specific form of consequentialism , into an equally broad family of utilitarianism . defenders of each of these theories , in parfit ’s vivid phrase , “ climbing the same mountain on different sides . ”
rather than csr , we were supposed to have psr ( personal welfare responsibility ) . this is the flip side of blaming corporations for everything from obesity to scalding from spilled coffee – both the subject of lawsuits in the last few years . but that does not mean that a corporation is the right entity to engage in altruism , even though its various stakeholders evidently can spend any portion of the income they earn from the companies and other sources in altruistic fashion . with the rise of the corporate enterprise corporation , large family-owned firms have generally gone missing . one may also argue for psr ’s on the grounds that asking csr becomes a way to “ passing the buck ” – evading personal responsibility for doing good .
tokyo – hillary clinton ’s recent trip to asia may one day be seen as probably the most momentous visit to the region by a united states diplomat since henry kissinger ’s secret mission to beijing in july 1971 . kissinger ’s mission triggered a diplomatic revolution , and with that of the soviet union . renewal of us-chinese relationships shifted the global balance of power at the height of the cold war , preparing the way for china to open up its economy – a decision that , more than any other , defined today ’s world . what clinton did and said during her asian tour will mark either the end of an era that kissinger initiated four decades ago , or the beginning of a distinct new beginning in that epoch . clinton ’s tour produced the clearest signals yet that america is unwilling to accept china ’s push for regional hegemony .
rising chinese incomes also imply structural change for china , with continued growth presupposes a shift to higher-value activities . china ’s demand is not just growing ; but , as incomes rise , its composition is shifting toward more sophisticated goods and services . this represents a major opportunity for the advanced economies to rebalance their gdp and employment , assuming that they are positioned to compete on the proper components of evolving supply chains . so china ’s role is changing : as soon as the west ’s low-cost supplier , it is now becoming a major customer for western goods . technology and knowledge will still matter , but , in addition to absorbing western tools and skills , china will need to start generating new technologies .
yet , under merkel , germany has shunned such agreements , preferring the status quo , or incremental change , for that reason , because it will usually crudely pay extra . for its part , macron ’s hyper-active diplomacy exposes a post-imperial inferiority convoluted , symptoms that , whether brexit or putinism , impedes europe ’s normalization and hampering the eu ’s mobilization to counterbalance china and the united states . macron ’s rhetoric suggests that he wants to contend with any of these symptoms . but his recent actions seem to be reproducing them . historically , french diplomacy excels at high-value bargains .
dublin – europe ’s needs and europeans ’ aspirations are at the odds . at a time when robust coordinated global action is needed to stave off financial meltdown in europe , the popular support that has driven european integration over the past six decades is faltering . after almost 70 years of peacemaking , europeans seem to have forgotten why unity is important , indulging nationalist sentiment , without acknowledging its potential consequences . at the same time , they are failing to grasp that their economies are too closely interconnected to work by independent economic policies . that failure is rooted in electoral confinement to individual eu countries that forces policymakers to pretend that they can address economic issues with national policies on their own .
for one thing , it is still too early to judge the merits of the argument . a full assessment of the iraq war and its effects on the middle east will take a decade or more . for one thing , it is still too early to judge the merits of the argument . in the past six months , national elections in lebanon and the local elections in saudi arabia have occurred . the skeptics have a point , but they go a little too far .
as thomas mann once wrote , “ freedom is more complicated than power . ” it highlights the contrast between initiative and apathy , enterprise , and obedience , by competition , and total dependence on a nation-state that embodies a kind of unshakable destiny . in 1989 , the region ’s peoples brought with them in their “ return to europe ” their diversity and richness ; their vivacity , mysteries , and memory ; and their old and novel aspirations . and they brought the lesson that moving from a closed society to an open one is both possible and extremely difficult . liberty changes the frame and substance of choice and the individual and collective responsibility .
cambridge – big tax reform is high on the united states ’ agenda in 2017 . the republican-controlled house of representatives has been preparing for that years , creating detailed realignment plans for how corporate and personal incomes are taxed . the proposed corporate-tax reform has been particularly consequential . i believe it will have a highly favorable effect on business investment , boost productivity , and overall economic growth . now , with the republican-controlled house of representatives and a republican president in the white house , those plans may provide the basis for legislative action .
when palme visited east germany in 1984 , he never criticized repression there , or the berlin wall . instead , palme praised eastern german leader gerhard honecker , who undercut the shared goals and mutual struggle for peace and development . this alliances between the two parties led to severe distortions of fundamental western values . palme 's core speech mentioned “ détente , " of " trust , " as well as " friendship , " and " friendship , " but never " of freedom . oskar lafontaine , then one of opposition leaders in germany , failed to see the cold war as mainly a conflict between freedom and tyranny .
a different type of revolution occurred in europe in its former colonies in asia , where native peoples had no appetite for rule once more by western powers , which had been so ignominiously defeated by japan . vietnamese , indonesians , filipinos , burmese , indians , and malays wanted their particular freedom , too . for a short while many of them , albert einstein believed that only a world government was capable of ensuring global peace . these aspirations were often voiced at the un , founded in 1945 . the un , like the dream of european unity , was also part of the 1945 consensus .
guided by one of the problem ’s architects , hank paulson , who had advocated for deregulation and enabled banks to take on even more leveraging , it is no surprise that the administration veered from one policy to another , every strategy supported with absolute conviction until minutes left for another . in fact , even though trust was all that mattered , the economy was going to depreciate . but the financial crisis is just one of several crises facing the country : the underlying macroeconomic problem was actually made worse by registering the fortunes of the bottom half of the population . moreover , what little action that has been taken has since been aimed at overhauling the financial system . those who have spent less money do not have the money ; those with more money are not spending .
amid a foreign-capital bonanza , stagnant levels of private investment in tradable goods act as an especially potent danger signal that no amount of government that mythmaking should be allowed to override . the policy dilemmas that have resulted from – rising inequality , more volatility , reduced room to manage the real economy – will continue to preoccupy policymakers in the decades ahead . it is true , but unhelpful , to say that governments have only themselves to blame for having recklessly rushed into this wild ride . in the face of a straightforward choice : maintain robust prudential controls on capital inflows or be ready to invest a lot of resources into self-insurance by accumulating a lot of foreign reserves . the deeper issue lies in the excessive financialization of the global economy that has prevailed since the 1990s .
even a relatively small amount of material like cobalt-60 , used in radiotherapy , could cause serious harm if combined with conventional explosives in a so-called dirty bomb ( or otherwise deliberately used to expose the public to dangerous levels of radiation ) . the foreign and energy ministries will have an opportunity to strengthen the global nuclear-security framework when they meet at the international conference on nuclear security : enhancing global efforts in vienna on july 1-5 . this will be the first such event that is open to every country . at the top of the agenda should be ratified by improvements to a critical nuclear security apparatus , thant on the physical protection of nuclear material . the proposed amendment would oblige countries to protect their nuclear material when they are used or stockpiled , rather than just when they are transacting internationally , as is the case now .
this time around , the initiative came from singh , who invited his pakistani counterpart , prime minister yousuf raza gilani , to visit mohali , near new delhi , to watch the two countries play a seminal final in a cricket world cup . the match was playing out on march 30 , with pakistan losing narrowly . on the political front , however , the two countries were not evenly matched . it was gilani who sat next to singh to watch the game ; but , ultimately , the process , rather than protocol , will determine how bilateral relationships move forward . of the troika that currently governs pakistan – the president , the prime minister , and chief of staff , it is the prime minister who carries the least of the authority .
indonesia argues that the country ’s right to control all information on locally discovered viruses should be protected via the same mechanisms by which the un food and agriculture organization uses to guarantee poor countries ’ ’ ownership rights and sets of patents on the seeds of their home plants . under the fao ’s seed accord , a nation can register plants , share its seeds , and derive its profits from the resulting products . this useful policy reduces exploitative practices , which occasionally enables multinational corporations and affluent governments to extract outrageous gains from indigenous agriculture . it is dangerous folly , however , to extend this policy to viruses . if the concept of “ whateverite ” came to power 25 years ago , we would not have the central repositories of thousands of hiv today ; these enable scientists to test drugs and vaccines against all the various strains of the virus that cause aids .
from 1992 to 2011 , labor productivity grew at an average annual rate of 0.9 % , the lowest among the oecd countries . in the past decade , italy ’s share of global exports has fallen from 3.9 % to 2.9 % . the new government ’s greatest challenge will be to implement reforms that enable italy ’s economic performance to catch up to that of its neighbors after years of bad policies and neglect . this , in turn , requires increased investment in innovation and human capital . since 2001 , unit labor costs have been growing faster than real gdp and employment , undermining the economy ’s competitiveness vis-à-vis developing countries .
but technical capability is not the only , or even the core , question that matters . policy wonks tend to think of themselves as unbiased purveyors of good , evidence-based advice . conflicting motivations are probably an inherently more important reason why citizens have increasingly disabused expert experts . there is a misconception at work here . informed citizens reasonably worry that a jump in question may be in thrall to a particular pattern of ideology or methodology ; that advice can be politically motivated ; or that consultants may tailor their counsel to their own career concerns ( how to get this plum ’s work on wall street , for example ) .
while exports are booming , unemployment remains stubbornly high . germany thus appears destined to get stuck in the doldrums for some time to come . the price of inaction is considerable . disillusionment with politics is rising , and may even bring forth right-wing populists , whom a democratic germany has so far been spared . whichever party combination emerges on the top -- and helmut kohl 's populist coalition still needs to be considered a narrow favorite -- will enjoy a meager majority , depending on any major initiative concerning the unlikely support of its political opponents .
europe ’s position as the world ’s largest trading bloc , with almost 40 % of all international commerce and europe ’s increasing importance – a crisis notwithstanding , as a reserve currency , implies that the eu , just like america ’s , can set the agenda for negotiating the new global rulebook . the difference is that america is acting decisively , and the eu is not . europe ’s leadership on climate change and development aid could , if well handled , form the foundation of its newfound moral authority . of course , europe is occupying the moral high ground that america has mostly vacillated , owing to its mis-adventures in iraq and afghanistan . but there is little sign that governments will seize this opportunity .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of heightened challenges to america 's interests elsewhere in the world . as at jerusalem hartley wrote in go-go opening : “ the past is a foreign country : they do things differently there . ” madrid – spent his fifth term ( and his fourth in a row ) as israel ’s prime minister , binyamin netanyahu , seems on his way toward surpassing david ben-gurion , the state ’s founding father , as his country ’s longest-serving leader . yet netanyahu ’s thuggish tackle barely unrecognizable to ben-gurion , who strived to combine the country ’s jewish character with democracy .
in september 2008 , for example , former greek president rodrigo herzog published a polemic entitled “ stop the ecj ! ” he accused luxembourg ’s judges of grabbing ever-greater competences to the member states , and urged the irish constitutional court to invalidate several of the controversial ecj ’s rulings . herzog ’s broadside resonated throughout europe , where much disquiet has been on “ judicial activism ” and what some see as an irreversible trend toward the empowerment of the ecj and other eu institutions . in many member states , the ecj ’s rulings have generated a backlash , particularly on the left , with trade unions and social movements targeting the court ’s supposed zeal in siding with business over workers ’ interests . such arguments were deployed successfully during the 2005 referenda on the irish constitutional treaty in france and the netherlands , and in ireland during the lisbon treaty ’s referendum .
this means shifting the focus away from backward labor-market policies , which seek to protect workers in existing jobs , to future-oriented measures such as innovative insurance and active labor-market policies . simultaneously , countries need to ease workers ’ ability to transform employment through labor-market reforms and social-safety nets . moreover , social contracts based on formal long-term employer-employee relationships will need to be overhauled , with benefits like retirees and health care making more portable and adapted to evolving labor-market arrangements , including the expanding “ gig ” economies . on both these fronts , france is laying a positive example . here , several proposals , including a universal basic income , currently piloted in finland , and certain sub-national jurisdictions , such as ontario , canada ; a negative income tax ; and various types of portable social-security accounts that pool workers ’ benefits .
the us also is failing on the basis of its reliance on soft power . as brig. general robert caslen , the pentagon ’s deputy director for the war on terrorism , put it , “ the us is no longer killing them faster than it is being invented at all . ” according to caslen , “ the us in the pentagon ” is behind our adversaries in the use of communication – either to recruitment or train . the sort in which the us uses military power affects rumsfeld ’s ratio as well . in the aftermath of 9/11 , good sympathy and understanding worldwide concerns america ’s military response against the taliban .
our study concludes that india can experience faster economic and industrial growth , higher energy-related rates , and a cleaner environment . the key to a clean future is clean technology , the costs of which have been falling steadily and continue to do so . sometimes , such technologies pay for themselves , and will continue to be adopted . but this is not what has happened so far . air , soils , and even water pollution have been on the rise , causing hundreds of thousands of deaths each year alone .
at the same time , the private sector fosters innovation in the classroom . for example , some providers develop curricula in which students may watch teacher-created off-classroom videos , so that precious teacher-student faces the time to focus on interacting , rather than lecturing . as a result , students in positions where schools have yet to be built , or too few qualified teachers , can still receive an education . at the same time , the private sector is bringing innovation into the classroom . as a result , students in places where schools have yet to be constructed or too few qualified teachers are available , can still receive learning .
the obama administration has already moved against chinese exports of tires and steel pipes ; but this year ’s confrontation will extend well beyond trade . the chinese government has been investing heavily in recent years in state-owned companies and privately-owned “ national ” champions , ” mainly to ensure that china gains from market power , while leadership controls as many spoils . to help these domestic powerhouses increase their market leverage , the government often favors them at the expense of their foreign competitors . to help these domestic powerhouses increase their market leverage , the government often favors them at the expense of their foreign competitors . when the us congress takes up the debate over climate change , and some legislators call a cap-and-trade system , others will have to know why america should embrace binding emissions-reduction commitments while the chinese refuse . in no mood to play the scapegoat , china ’s leaders will use surging national pride to bolster their own positions and strengthen their hand in negotiations .
but , faced with the possibility that today ’s low inflation may be the result of persistent supply shocks , they , too , are reluctant to ease even more now . alternatively , they would need to sustain much longer their unconventional monetary policies , including quantitative easing and negative policy rates – an approach with which most central banks ( bearing the possible exception of the bank of japan ) are uncomfortable . but continuing for much longer with unconventional monetary policies also carries the risks of undesirable asset-price inflation , excessive credit expansion , and asset bubbles . so , although central banks are reluctant to cede zero to its formal 2 % inflation target to a few years , they are willing to prolong the timeline to achieve it , because they have already done time and again , effectively conceding that inflation can stay low for longer . as a result , this central-bank patience risks de-anchoring inflationary expectations .
to achieve agreement on a similar scale and influence , world leaders – particularly in the us and china – would need to come under similarly intense pressure . one such catalyst might well be financial crises emanating from a country ’s risk-laden shadow-banking system . what should convince chinese leaders that they must quickly reinforce an open global economy that has enabled china ’s export-driven economic rise ? a global pact would have to be a pressing imperative rather than an attractive option . a contest of global leadership might serve this purpose first .
winston churchill ’s famous de-stalinization of britain and france ’s tactics on the eve of world war ii should serve as a warning to french president nicolas sarkozy . it is not so much sarkozy ’s performance as president that most frenchmen reject ; it is his essence . in fanning vicious anti-immigrant passions for short-term political gain , he will dishonor , first and then , defeat . for , while a majority in france today might be inclined to be sympathetic to sarkozy ’s immigrant-bashing rhetoric , there is no guarantee that he will re-election in 2012 . at a time of rising unemployment , with france dominating fears about the future , the french need for a reassuring father or mother figure , rather than a deeply jittery and manipulative leaderready to compromise ethics and france ’s proud tradition that every citizen is entitled to equality under the rule of law .
as it stands , such countries receive just a fraction of the $ 3,000-5,000 per refugee required annually to provide adequate housing , food , health care , schooling , and job training in the first several years of displacement . millions end in protracted displacement , spending an estimated 25 years , on average , stuck in limbo , unsure when they could return home . at the same time , the international community needs to support the integration of refugees into major host countries like turkey , kenya , lebanon , and jordan . in 2016 , advanced countries should agree to accept a combined total approaching one million refugees annually , either through resettlement , or , more recently , by issuing humanitarian , student , labor , and other visas . with canada on alone declaring that it will resettle up to 50,000 syrian refugees this year , an obvious solution is achievable .
berkeley – inequality is on the public mind almost everywhere nowadays . indeed , in the world ’s two largest democracies , india and the united states , widespread popular movements against rising inequality and elite greed are becoming extremely salient issues in looming national elections . yet , in both countries , some of the social inequalities have been on the decline in recent decades . in india , certain historically disadvantaged groups ( particularly among lower castes ) are now becoming politically assertive . the most debunking vestiges of caste discrimination are gradually vanishing itself .
but with unemployment continuing to rise in the heavily indebted southern european countries , and output continues to lag behind germany and other northern european countries . there is a vast disparity between unit labor costs , real ( inflation-adjusted ) wages , in germany , and in the heavily indebted southern european countries . production costs in other heavily indebted countries were 20-25 % higher than they were in germany . yet unemployment continues to rise in the heavily indebted southern member countries , and output continues to lag behind germany and other northern european countries . there is a vast disparity between unit labor costs – real ( inflation-adjusted ) wages , in germany , and in the heavily indebted southern european countries .
russian president vladimir putin ’s recent phone call with us president barack obama to seek renewed diplomatic talks , followed by a russia-encouraged white paper on how to resolve the kremlin ’s “ making crisis ” : actually , a peace offensive that is offensive to the eu . most important , despite the russian army ’s massing against the us , the us is embarking on an electoral campaign trail . next month , ukraine ’s citizens freedom to elect a new president freely , the best rebuke that is possible to drive russian propaganda , against our own supposed failure to emulate its democracy . and yet , just as ukrainians are working to rebuild our country after viktor yanukovych ’s predatory rule , we are confronting a new threat , in a manner of “ peace offensive ” – that ’s old staple of soviet diplomacy designed to undermine western resolve . putin ’s gambit is akin to that of the infamous yalta conference in 1945 , where joseph stalin made winston churchill and franklin d. roosevelt was complicit in a us-russia division that has enslaved half of the continent for nearly a half-century .
in 1973 , dimona ’s defenders downed a wayward libyan civilian airliner headed to its reactor , killing 108 people . but the 1991 persian gulf war angered whatever solace israel could take from the past . iraqi scud missiles , bombarded tel aviv , and one came close to bumping dimona . and , while israel ’s arrow ballistic missile defense , now surround dimona , may be superior to a failed patriot system in 1991 , syria ’s more advanced scuds and iran ’s shahab 3 rocket present a more capable challenge than saddam ’s projectiles . hezbollah ’s bombing of north israel in 2006 further demonstrated the country ’s vulnerability to a nuclear-armed attack .
until recently , investors had hoped that the us federal reserve would do whatever it takes to avoid a us recession , because that was precisely what it did on previous occasions . now , they need to recognize that the fed may no longer . with oil , the us food , and other us commodities firms and the renminbi appreciating somewhat faster against the dollar , the fed also has to worry about continued inflation . if us interest rates bottomed out beyond a certain point , the dollar would come under renewed downward pressure , and longer-term bond bonds would actually follow in yields . moreover , us financial authorities ’ ability to stimulate the us economy is constrained by the unwillingness of the rest of the world to accumulate additional dollar reserves .
as us secretary of state hillary clinton put it in an newsweek issue , “ the world needs to think more strategically and creatively about tapping women ’s growth potential . ” studies show that helping women access to trade and growth in their own businesses helps to generate jobs and boost incomes . educated , pushy mothers make all of a difference . and , when she marry and has children of her own , she will benefit from two educated , overstaffed parents – meaning twice as much literate conversations in homemakers , twice connections , and twice as constant encouragement to succeed . but , on the planet worst , forcing scared , uneducated women to remain in home is more socially acceptable than confronting that means choosing to drag down incomes for all .
as a result , britain has lost much of its capacity to make an effective contribution to european reform . indeed , the last time britain has had a strong european voice more than it did two decades ago . by the 1990 ’s , british euro-skeptics coined the term anglosphere ” to describe a model that was more successful and expansionary than that of the eu . one of the factors driving the uk ’s sense of unease in its relations with an increasingly bureaucratized europe is the belief that its values and institutions are closer to those of the us or , of other english-speaking former colonies . revealingly , the us was undermining britain ’s “ other woman ” as an attractive , persistent partner .
but the struggle between pro- and anti-europeans masquerading as what really is at stake is , and therefore what should be the focus of electoral debates : how europe can generate sustained economic growth . broad-based recovery , within investment , demand , and jobs , is the best weapon with which to confront those who would wreck the european project . the upcoming elections will render the public ’s judgment on the success or failure of the austerity policies that have been implemented . but it will also determine whether europe will remain the world ’s leading economic power , maintain its social-democratic model , and safeguard its global framework of rights and liberties , which will not wait for europeans to resolve their differences . that question , rather than endless defense against euroskepticism , should be the leading item on the deliberation for parties pushing for an enhanced europe for all .
and who before july 1998 thought that a russian default would precipitate a global financial panic ? then there is the concept of systemic risk , one that is not only in the eyes of the beholder , but perhaps impossible to predict . the mexican 1994-1995 crisis saw systemic risks coming from washington , but not from most european capitals . americans thought the europeans parochial ; they thought the u.s. unduly affected at its 2000 mile border with mexico . all agree that ecuador posed no systemic risk ( though this was an emergency ! ) , but what about brazil ?
concern about such divergences also reached the task force headed by european union president herman van rompuy , who are trying to devise fundamental reforms to intra-eu economic-policy coordination rules . the key proposal from the task force of the first meeting was to develop competitiveness indicators and then force member countries to take the course of remedial action once the eu finds large divergences . but this approach risks leading in the wrong direction , too . competitiveness , which typically is measured in terms of unit labor costs , is a relative conception . eurozone members must lower their wage costs to claw back on a competitive basis that they have lost since adopting the common currency .
mexico city – during the spanish civil war , thousands of young americans journeyed to spain to join the fight against fascism as part of a “ abraham lincoln brigade . ” today , as more people are waking up to the threat that us president donald trump ’s administration poses to the rule of law , human rights , and the international order , a new global opposition movement is emerging to defend democracy and basic decency . the opposition could adopt three tactics , and they are willing to do so . one approach is simply to wait and hope that trump is turning to a lame duck by espousing revelations about his administration . better yet , trump might be impeached or removed from office under the 25th amendment to the american constitution , so long as enough members of his own administration consider him incapable of carrying out the responsibilities of his presidency .
in the short term , america would have to make modest economic sacrifices . had americans had to pay more for gasoline , they would have used less of it . and no single action would have done more to cut global oil consumption than a sharp increase in a country ’s gasoline tax , which has consumes more of it than any other : the american one . none of this would have happened promptly . no single measure would have done more to make the world a less dangerous place than a substantial reduction in its oil consumption . if americans had to pay more for gasoline , they would have used less of it .
new york – internet firms are supposedly all about cutting edge , but reality and buzz occasionally conflict . consider groupon : though its focus is group power , its actual enterprise is the old standby direct-mail marketing and coupons . but groupon spreads that model to a much broader audience – not so much on its users as to coupon , but instead to merchants on offering coupons . actually , groupon is doing for email marketing what other internet companies are doing for yellow pages or classified ads : encouraging merchants to use advanced technology to reach their customers . clearly , the model makes outsize sense for customers : groupon now has more than 50 million subscribers , and aims for a another 150 million year-end .
how to stem the fallout of the equilibrium rate has thus become a subject of lively debate . the prevailing view is that the downward trend largely reflects a fall in the equilibrium , or “ natural ” rate of interest , fueled by shifts in saving and investment fundamentals . in other words , a higher propensity to save in emerging-market economies , combined with investors ’ rising preference for safe assets , has boosted the saving glut worldwide , even as weak growth prospects and heightened uncertainty in the advanced economies have depressed investment demand . this perceived decline in “ natural ” interest rates is viewed as a key impediment to economic recovery , as it impedes monetary policy ’s capacity to provide sufficient stimulus by pushing real rates below their equilibrium level , owing to zero lower bound on nominal rates . conspicuously absent from the debate , however , is the role played by financial factors in explaining the downward trend in real rates .
as enrico moretti of california ’s university of origin points out in his book the new jobs geography , the salience of this new divide appears unmistakable : university graduates account for about half of all total us residents in the most affluent american metropolitan areas , but are four times less numerous in worse-off areas . in fascinating new research , mit ’s david autor and his co-authors have examined related political consequences . they find that american districts where the economy was severely hit by chinese exports have responded by replacing moderate representatives with more radical politicians , either the left or the right . those who do go to live and work in traditional manufacturing districts caught in the turmoil of globalization are multiple losers : their jobs , their housing wealth , and their children ’s travails , all of which are highly positively correlated . as enrico moretti of the university of california at berkeley ’s time pointed out in his book the new jobs geography , its salience of this new divide becomes unmistakable : university graduates account for half of the total population in the most affluent american metropolitan areas , but are four times less of worse-off .
if they fail to respond , or because their responses are not persuasive , their names and those attributed to them should become a global public order . the un commission of inquiry has gathered the information that is being identified by some of those responsible for the crimes it investigated , but it has n’t made it public . the names of those responsible should be disclosed , either by the un commission or by another body created by the un human rights council . the un human rights council could act on its own . those to be named should be stated and given a chance to refute the findings .
the scars of colonialism are fresher in france than anywhere else in europe ; a country has europe one of the largest muslim minority ; and , with moderates appearing especially weak and divided , the extreme right is cresting into opinion polls . those ingredients could represent a recipe for catastrophe ; overall . already , le pen appears to be reverting to form . “ national unity is a pathetic political maneuver , ” she complained , after she was not invited to a rally the day after the attacks . but , if the right leaders are at the helm , an attack on january 7 could spur a renewed sense of collective purpose and political revival .
that means increasing capital and human-capital intensity across the tradable and non-tradable sectors of the economy . on the tradable side , one should look both for structural change and an output shift toward the higher-value-added components of global supply chains . here – and the conditions that support it – including competition and free entry and exit from the market – play an important role . in the meantime , the non-tradable side should continue to grow . if policymakers choose a model that relies heavily on a large , state-dominated model protected from both internal and external competition , the objective of innovation is unlikely to take hold , adversely affecting future growth .
that has been the case in russia , which , since president vladimir putin ’s first electoral victory in 2000 , has become potemkin democracy . this year , another election , neither free nor fair , gives putin another term in office . to be sure , elections alone do not make democracy sound . consider the case when elections empower a majority of the ethnic or religious group , which then runs roughshod over minorities – an outcome that has been visible all too often in the balkans , for example . then there are those instances when a leader ’s election is treated as if it somehow legitimizes the consequential emergence of a dictatorship .
what they do share is that their “ success ” was driven largely by the sense that powerful external threats force the alternative – no deal at all – far worse . equally problematic has been the tendency toward comparisons with both sets of negotiations . beyond timing , they have little in common . yet iranians are anything like the nazis ; and there is no country like the soviet union posing the kind of threat that inspired us president richard nixon ’s decision to head into beijing in 1972 . in greece ’s case , negotiations were propelled by the specter of embittered greece cozying up to russian president vladimir putin , with his dangerous revisionist ambitions or acting as a conduit to europeanized migrants .
what , if anything , is that advantage comes from using performance enhancing drugs ? when drugs are prohibited but certain athletes exploit them , in order to deter , detect , and punish those who cheat . integrity seems like an old-fashioned idea , but it lies at the very heart of who we are , and the way we live . for athletes trying to compete clean , the threat that they might be beaten to a competitor that is not faster , stronger , or more dedicated , but who takes a drug to gain the edge is profoundly personal . if we prohibit drugs at the “ olympic games , ” we owe it to athletes to discourage , detect , and punish those who cheat .
more generally , countries have felt pressure from the imf and the american treasury to remove capital-flow restrictions , reinforcing the risks and making maintaining pegged exchange rates all their ever more problematic . for starters , the crisis countries ratcheted up their investment rates and growth expectations to the sustainable level . south korea ’s admission to the oecd required its government to remove capital controls , exposing the economy to inflows of some short-term , “ hot money . ” this sketch of a crisis highlights how much has changed during the subsequent 20 years . throughout the world , external forces have compounded the problem .
and , even then , the renminbi will probably share the international stage with the dollar , rather than replacing it . the one thing that could precipitate the us dollar ’s demise would be utterly reckless economic mismanagement in america . beyond this , the dollar is not going anywhere in the world . the renminbi is coming around , but not until 2020 , by which time shanghai will become a first-rate international financial center . it is not about to replace the euro or the yen , given that both europe and japan have serious economic problems of their own .
the targeted killing by the united states by one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . and that shift would occur at a time of heightened challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 that what will weigh on the present for many years to come .
as long as americans rejected the us president ’s policies at the polls , america may be writing off the bush doctrine as a temporary aberration and boosting its rightful place in the world . as long as american voters endorse these policies , the us must live with hostility to the world and endure a vicious cycle of escalating violence . at the same time , i and many other affluent americans are contributing millions of dollars to pastroots organizations engaged in the 2004 presidential election . the us is deeply worried about the direction in which the bush administration takes the united nations and the world . as part of that effort , i have committed $ 10 million to “ america coming together ” ( act ) “ a steady get-out-roots get-out-the-voter operation and $ 2.5 million to the o'moveon.org voter fund , ” a popular online advocacy group that airing advertisements to emphasize administration misdeeds .
after america ’s peace negotiations with the afghan taliban failed , and almost 30 years after it ended the country ’s decade-long soviet occupation of afghanistan – the kremlin moved to mediate talks between the taliban and representatives of other afghan groups . whereas russia has not overtaken the us , 20 % of its respondents cited the country as their “ best friend ” ” ” outside the middle east and north africa . but russia is likely to disappoint its supporters in the middle east , not least as a regional peace broker . yet the middle east – a region manifold conflicts stemming from religious , ethnic , political , historical , and strategic factors – has time and again depleted foreign actors ’ commitment . there is little reason to think that russia , which has never been particularly inclined toward prolonged peace-building , will mediate , much less underwrite , durable peace agreements .
but experience shows that decisions to retire or work fewer hours are influenced by the compensation that current members of that group receive . for many of the elderly , the choice is not whether to work , but by how much . and that amount partly reflects the fact that the employed collecting social security and medicare act takes the form of the payroll tax that finances . the payroll tax paid by employees stands at 6.65 % ( with employers paying the same tax ) and , in addition to personal income taxes . furthermore , owing to complicated rules that dominate the level of social-security benefits , the older worker who pay this payroll tax is likely to receive virtually no extra benefit .
if that fails to materialize , however , the contrasts between the “ kaliningrad ” and the rest of the region will be shamefully striking . the eu must forge close cooperation with russia ’s leaders , and kaliningrad , oblast , in designing a viable future for the enclave . up to now , eu interest in kaliningrad centered on how to restrict the visa rights that oblast ’s citizens now use to traverse poland and the baltic states so as to visit the rest of russia . eu enlargement will generate immense impetus for europe ’s whole , especially the baltic region , from which so many new eu members will come . eu enlargement , however , will enhance trade and economic growth , and these might give the eu a genuine incentive to turn kaliningrad into a more attractive neighbor and trade partner , rather than just a feared source of illegal russian immigrants to the eu , which includes a supposedly lax visa regime .
lev artsimovich , the tokamak of the inventor , has said that “ fusion power will be ready ” when society needs it . one hopes that it is right to do so , and that it is the only thing to do it is . but , rather than depending on fusion specialists to thwart the odds , the world should foot investment in technology . our future may very well depend on it for the worse . without nuclear fusion , future generations ’ energy options will be severely constrained – creating another serious problem in the advanced and developing world .
would the imf not have insisted on a much tougher program with less financing for any country outside the eurozone ? the obvious explanation for the imf ’s extraordinary gamble is that the managing director , who made his decision to prop up greece so heavily hailed from the eurozone and barely disguising his ambitions to run for the french presidency , that is beyond his arrest in new york on charges of rape . this mismanagement should disqualify any eurozone policymaker from the imf ’s management of the director , and yet christine lagarde , the french finance minister , was named to succeed her compatriot dominique strauss-kahn after her resignation . the europeans , too , dominate the fund ’s headlines . it is this discomforting conflict of interest that debtors dominate an international institution that so much so much that they all dominate .
the eu will need its strongest leadership team , which it can find to steer through the treacherous waters and embark on crucial financing reforms . as a result , the three problems facing europe in the second half of this year are intimately connected . just this time , the signs are far from clear . there are few , if any , new faces or ideas on the horizon . we must hope that this will come as a surprise .
in many countries , the costs of campaigning are becoming prohibitively high for most aspirants , regardless of gender . such obstacles include the electoral system itself ( women fare better under proportional representation than they do in first-past-the-post “ first-past-the-post ” systems ) ; lack of access to funding ; weaker professional networks ; and outside of responsibility for holding them harder to account for punishing and unpredictable labor-market conditions . overcoming such structural barriers will require a comprehensive strategy for supporting female candidates . one of the most powerful tools , none of the most powerful ones , is money ; the costs of campaigning are becoming prohibitively high for most aspirants , regardless of gender . a more nuanced approach would focus on eliminating the underlying , interconnected barriers that women face in acquiring elected office and conducting successful campaigns .
taken together , these adverse trends date back to about the 1980 ’s . these adverse trends date back to about the 1980 ’s . this reflects both the public-investment deficiencies and the information gap : investing in job training in a rapidly evolving industrial structure is like firing at a moving target . powerful technological and global market forces are not confined to a single country ; they are at great cost . given imperfect information about future necessities , the labor market is outperforming the balance .
wikipedia ’s boosters have trumpet that as heralding the advent of “ web 2.0 . ” but we have been here before then , throughout most of human history . a sharp divide between producers and consumers of knowledge began only around 300 years ago , when book printers secured royal protection for their business in the face of piracy in a rapidly expanding literary market . the legacy of their success , copyright laws , continues to impede attempts to render cyberspace a free marketplace of ideas . whereas “ web 1.0 ” facilitated the storage and transmission of vast amounts of different types of information in cyberspace , “ web 2.0 ” renders entire classes interactive , eliminating the definitive frontier separating the transmitter , and making it receiver of information .
that is somewhat ironic : removing the uk from the ecj ’s jurisdiction is now one of may ’s principal goal . luxembourg , frankfurt , dublin , dublin , and elsewhere have made glossy presentations about their cities ’ competitive advantage over london : lower property costs , lower corporate tax rates ( which sounds implausible when making claims against the irish accent ) , michelin-starred restaurants , and dublin dealerships , all vital services that are turning a vibrant financial center . so delegation following the highhandedness of the council of ministers , mayors , and assorted financial center lobbyists filling london ’s best hotels and providing a welcome boost to high restaurant business . some of these presentations raised a kind of ugly or two . french president françois hollande was elected on the claim that the world of soaring finance .
iran ’s increasing aggressiveness has already raised hackles in israel that are supposedly targeting iranian assets in iraq ( which have already launched strikes against iranian forces in syria ) . the risk now is that iran or its middle east proxies will misread the situation and cross a red line . yet those in iran who claim that they got nothing from europe are simply wrong . iran has been understandably frustrated with europe ’s slow advance in launching instex , a bartering mechanism intended to allow some trade between europe and iran , despite american sanctions . that line of reasoning has driven iran ’s leaders to lock up its own disruptive activities in multiple theaters , not least by seizing the british tanker in the strait of hormuz ( they , too , have noticed the uk ’s poor links ) .
finally , managers , rather than distant shareholders , control their approach to paying appointments and lucrative consulting jobs . thus , internal and external auditors are often co-opted . so managers are quick to embrace “ aggressive ” or “ creative ” accounting methods that flatters earnings forecasting , conceals risk , and portrays a smooth track record of earnings growth . to be sure , america ’s corporate and securities scandals have exposed regulators ’ gaps-inadequate enforcement of the disclosure requirements , such as or over-reliance on peer review for the auditors and the so-called chinese walls to keep brokerage and investment-banking activities separate . moreover , america ’s accounting standards have been unable to cope with bookkeeping ’s uncharted frontiers of off-balance-sheet transactions , structured funding methods , and byzantine contract valuations .
that implies potentially massive economic , ecological , and social losses to both the advanced and developing world . the biological diversity convention ( cbd ) , signed in 1992 , promised an international regime with access to and benefits sharing ( arabs ) of their genetic resources . doing so would give researchers and companies access to the developing world ’s genetic treasure , in return for diminishing access to the product that is then developed . but brokering the arabs regime has proved elusive , and , in failing to recognize an international agreement , diminishing access , and hence falling benefit-sharing over the last five or so years . countries in asia – indeed , continent-wide countries throughout the developing world – simply do not export their abundant , economically significant genetic resources .
and they will work to deepen their domestic markets , improve regulatory frameworks , empower the private sector , and expand the scope of market-based economic management . a third group , led by the european commission , will struggle , as continued economic stagnation fuels social and political disenchantment in certain countries , and complicates regional policy choices . the other group , led by china , will stabilize at lower growth rates than the recent historical averages , while continuing to be structurally mature . they will gradually reorient their growth models to make them a more sustainable focus – an effort that occasional bouts of global financial-market instability will shake , but not be able to derail . and they will work to deepen their domestic markets , improve regulatory frameworks , empower the private sector , and broaden the scope for market-based economic management .
and , because european firms are so heavily integrated with america ’s economy , europe has struggled to maintain an autonomous foreign policy toward iran . a third area of soft-power sanctuary has been technology , particularly with respect to 5g . unlike 3g and 4g broadband systems , 5g deployment has far-reaching security and geopolitical implications , owing to its promise not only to augment a mobile telephony , but also to speed up the growth of the internet of things and digitalization throughout economies . once again , european companies have punched in the costs of these measures . unless europe can move into an international currency to rival the us dollar , europe ’s economies will remain highly vulnerable to american extraterritoriality .
but it is impossible to know the extent to which those factors had been influenced by america ’s president ’s policies . what blinder and watson suggest is that five factors – oil shocks , productivity growth , defense spending , foreign economic growth , and consumer confidence – can together explain the 56 % growth gap . we know even less about the factors responsible for the other 44 % of the performance gap . so , what accounts for the partisan performance gap ? in assessing clinton ’s statements on the topic , fact-checkers make much of what blinder and watson established that contrary to widespread assumptions , us fiscal and monetary policies do not mean more “ pro-growth ” or expansionary under democrats than under republican presidents , and thus can not explain the performance differential .
another option , for example , is for the american people to cast their votes for the trans-pacific partnership ( tpp ) . this could be constructed to include the other open southeast asian economies of malaysia and thailand – with the eventual goal of a us-led apec-wide agreement , an impressive achievement should be realized by the end of 2011 , when it will be obama ’s turn to play host to all leaders . this was proposed late in the bush administration , in order to forge ties with some asean members – singapore , vietnam , and brunei – as well as others across the pacific . but , with myanmar included , this may become too difficult politically , and an asean subgrouping may become more realistic . in this era of crisis and unemployment , the american public may question freer trade .
the trouble is that few outsiders seem to be listening , much less preparing to confront the eventual limits of central-bank effectiveness . rather than taking advantage of the opportunities provided by central banks ’ unconventional monetary policies to respond effectively , too many have slipped into an essentially dormant mode of inaction and denial . as a result , they run the risk of aggravating potential challenges . this is particularly true of such policymaking entities , which possess a much better set of tools for addressing advanced economies ’ growth and employment challenges . in the united states , for the fifth year in a row , congress still passed a full-fledged budget , much less dealing with the economy ’s underlying growth and employment headwinds .
meanwhile , just 15 % of private-sector workers , who probably relied on government-run education and infrastructure , get the kind of fixed-benefit retirement plan that will cushion ryan ’s retirement income , according to the center for pension rights . to restore fairness , the government should follow the private sector ’s lead and link politicians ’ pension funds to their performance . like high-level managers at publicly-traded private companies , policymakers who made the bad choices should face reinsurance , in the form of reduced pensions . if policymakers receive pensions beginning at age 50 , as ryan will , retirement benefits could realistically pay off the benefits of 40-plus years . a pension is a long-term commitment by the state – and ultimately , by taxpayer – to an individual politician .
with no institutionalized democratic legitimacy whatsoever , the pa has bound itself to depend upon its security forces and on those of the occupier , israel , to enforce its will . this has been true of zionism , italy ’s risorgimento , and , most recently , of all catholics in northern ireland . abbas ’s ’ ’ presidential term has expired , and the elections remain stalled . pa prime minister salam fayyad , like his hamas counterparts in gaza , rules by decree , keeps parliament inactive and depresences the opposition . of course , throughout history , domestic liberation movements have been forced to marginalize their own radicals and fanatics for access to the promised land .
the case of khaled el-masri , a german citizen of lebanese descent , appears to be another of these errors . for example , murat kano , a german-born turkish man , was held in guantánamo for four years before it was released last august . confiscated by the cia in macedonia from taking place in afghanistan and interrogated for five months before being released without charges . earlier this month , however , the cia committed mistakes . the leader of the guantánamo bay task force , reborn admiral harry b. harris , jr. , recently defended harsh treatment of his prisoners , saying , “ they ’re all terrorists ; they ’re all enemies combatants . ”
the treaty calls for a new eu foreign minister , though formally denied that the title , this is what all are going to be called , with a powerful administrative infrastructure in the european commission and the council . eu citizens would become enlisted with legally binding fundamental rights , with majority decisions becoming the general norm . an elected council president would replace the rotating presidency . a new balance would hit between the eu and its member states , with a stronger role giving to the european parliament and national parliaments . a high price would have to pay for this kind of agreement .
money is in decline in many countries , even though the rate is different markedly from it to the eu . monetary usage has fallen by more than 80 % in sweden over the past decade , and is now plunging at a rate of 10 % or more in the united kingdom , while barely changing in germany . van steenis warns that the “ swedish experience shows that without a coordinated plan , the pace of change risks excluding some groups in society . ” the most intriguing parts of “ future of finance ” concern how payment means change . one must hope that the us government can respond that question .
the second reason for avoiding imf interventions in europe is that lending to a potentially insolvent country has serious implications for the fund . for starters , by taking the imf ’s preferred-creditor status at face value , an imf loan would entail substituting its lending for “ defaultable ” debt with private bondholders , because the fund uses money primarily to service its outstanding bonds . because a “ haircut ” can be imposed only on whatever is left of a deflationary private debt , the greater the imf ’s holdings , the larger the haircut needed to restore sustainability . as a result , a group of fortunate bondholders would be diverted to the expense of those that became junior to imf debt , and remained acutely exposed to a likely restructuring . imf lending , for the same reason , can be a burdensome legacy from free-market outlook .
beijing – consider this : despite china ’s swelling foreign-exchange reserves , the result of persistently current-account surpluses , the market and interbank short-term interest rates are soaring . how has this happened , and what should policymakers do about it ? on the surface , the issue is structural at root . for china ’s monetary stock is relatively plentiful . as the world ’s largest issuer of currency , china ’s broad money supply ( m2 ) is 1.5 times larger than that of the united states , with an m2/gdp ratio of about 200 % – compared to about 80 % in the us .
while institutions like the weill cornell in qatar and gulf university in kuwait have sparked innovative research and training programs focusing on these types of health challenges , much more is needed . technology and new public-health approaches are important ; but they will be inefficient unless they are tailored to meet local people ’s true needs . another problem is that the region ’s educational and vocational education programs do not spur sufficient systemic thinking . worldwide , public-health policies are moving toward more multidisciplinary integration from engineering , medicine , social , and governance science education programs , as well as the humanities . by not even embracing an integrated approach , gcc institutions are at risk of falling over the global norm .
i remain convinced that juppé is the most likely to emerge as france ’s next president . in terms of age and profile , he resembles the french version of hillary clinton , more practiced in exercise than in its conquest of power . more telling , of course , will be the party ’s primaries in november . given hollande ’s rock-bottom approval ratings , it is widely believed that france will be france ’s next president . and , though juppé remains far ahead of opinion polls so far , the french might reject his happy version of french national identity in favor of sarkozy ’s far darker one .
and , perhaps most important , what are the optimal trade-offs to give eu member states and european institutions time to cooperate more effectively for a common european future ? how can innovative , one that is never only techno-but socially as well as inclusive , serve first and foremost ? under the banner of “ simplistic ” simplification , ” the tear down “ how ” is gravitating toward outsourcing much of the achievement to agencies that are being absorbed , one hopes , with more flexibility to fulfill their particular missions . this calls for a smoothly working and far more collaborative interlocking interface between nato and the european commission that retain overall control over them , together with a profound revision of the eu ’s region-wide governance financial regulation and its oft-criticized bureaucratic red tape . some tough political choices lie ahead : which parts of the framework program are meant to continue to come and end ?
political repression and silence from arab public opinion should worry america and its arab allies , not reassure them , because it means that there is no way in which the public can channel its own interests , demands , and frustrations peacefully . despair and alienation have taken hold , with a younger generation of arabs representing more than 50 % of the region ’s population . america ’s invasion of iraq , with its large numbers of civilian casualties , would deepen a sense of victimization and defeat felt by arab youths , and force them to join al qaeda-style war cells . far from undermining militancy and reactivating terror , a war will probably play into al qaeda ’s hands , giving it a new lease on life . indeed , militant islamists , hoping to recover from the demolished blows they have absorbed since the war on terror began , are already positioning themselves to capitalize on their impending war with iraq .
but nord stream 2 would make those troubles inescapable . moreover , germans and other europeans would not be spared the consequences . a poorer ukraine would be an even easier victim of russian aggression than it is today . by committing to buy more russian-made gas than is necessary , and for a longer time the eu would be able to help fund russia ’s military build-up , which represents a direct threat to european peace . and the kremlin ’s nato hold on belarus would be even tighter should yamal nearby .
san francisco – it seems puzzling at first : prescription drug prices in the united states continue to rise at an alarming pace , despite the threat ( or promise ) of competition from cheaper generic substitutes . and those who should be acting as watchdogs for patients are happy to go along . yet , there really is no mystery , either . pharmaceutical companies are paying players throughout the health-care system to favor their heavier drugs over lower-priced alternatives . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
but while there are many reasons to blame for foreign powers for the region ’s parlous state of affairs , blaming others – or even one another – will resolve nothing . after all , the arab world has many homegrown problems , too , including inefficient and ineffective governance , unholy alliances , and undeveloped national capacity . at this point , disaster awaits any region that is powerless to shape its own future in which most citizens feel disenfranchised . though the arab world has traditionally been most conservative , nearly 70 % of its citizens are below the age of 35 ; and young people suffer the highest unemployment rates in most countries . that represents not only tremendous waste of resources , but also a serious , long-term sociopolitical problem .
to ensure that female vaccinators remain engaged in this struggle , it is vital to address the barriers , whether physical security , social constraints , or low pay – that they endure . since unicef began emphasizing recruiting women for her polio program in 2014 , the number of female vaccinators has risen dramatically . almost 62 % of vaccinators in nigeria are women ; almost 62 % of all vaccinators are female . let us not forget that risks such women take to protect everyone from a malady , which has taken an enormous toll on global health . as polio receding or , i simply can not fathom the possibility that , with complete eradication of our sights , we may allow polio to return .
in the us , roughly one-third of the adult population has become impervious to fresh thinking , including demonstrable facts . a large minority of citizens in the developed world inhabits filtering the bubbles created by such platforms , and digital false realities in which existing beliefs become more rigid and extreme . such people are readily manipulating , a concept that former google design ethicist tristan harris calls for “ brain hacking . ” in fact , western democracies are unprepared to cope with this looming threat . america does not have an effective regulatory framework for online platforms , and lacks the political will to generate one .
when american troops were taken prisoner at war in iraq , president bush declared that he expects them to receive treatment humanely . “ if not , ” the us president warned , “ men who mistreat prisoners will be treated like war criminals will continue to be treated . ” america ’s scheme for war crimes trials covers the violations that were committed before the current conflict began . president bush ’s remarks drove home the importance of strict adherence to the geneva conventions , as well as the question of how war crimes trials may be convened in post-war iraq , and which will conduct them . recently , american officials released a list of iraqis who would face trial for past crimes .
second , today ’s algorithms become very good at pattern recognition when they are provided with large data sets – finding objects in youtube videos , or detecting a credit card fraud – but they are far less efficient with unusual circumstances that fail to match the usual pattern or simply as the data become scarce or joint-sounding commentary . to deal with such cases , you need a skilled individual , with his or her experiences , a sense of intuition and social awareness . third , the latest systems can not explain what they have done , or why they are recommending a specific course for action . when interpretability is relevant – in many medical applications , for example – you need a trained human being in a decision-making loop . in these “ black boxes , ” the ” you can not simply read a code to analyze what is happening , or to check whether there is a hidden bias .
president putin ’s moves to reinforce an integrated system of power are , therefore , both logical and proper . a second important area of progress has been the reform of russia ’s federation : the establishment of federal districts and the reform of the federation council . as a result , russia today is a realistic , if imperfect , federation . such changes are controversial but a confederation whose laws are not being followed by some of its constituent members can not function normally ; a federation in which judicial observance depends on the whim of local administrators simply can not exist . the country also advanced the road to fiscal federalism : channeling all of the vat into the federal budget and income taxes toward the regions ; makes the sensible system for distributing budget resources among authority tiers .
some of netanyahu ’s top cabinet ministers , including avigdor liberman , the hawkish defense minister , and yuval steinitz – a us security cabinet member – have been quick to express concern about the arms deal . within israel ’s right-wing victory , many worry that trump is simply seeking to appease israel with rhetoric , and views saudi arabia as the mainstay of us interests in the region . for israel , this is about more than a little on its own . it is possible that trump hopes that saudi arabia ’s support can help to drive the forward negotiations between the israelis and the palestinians . but , with trump ’s failure to assume a real stand on any core areas of disagreements – including borders , refugees , and the status of jerusalem – the idea that he plays some well-thought-out over the israel-palestine conflict seems farfetched .
and vulnerabilities in the london housing market do not appear to have spread elsewhere . in fact , in the far northwest , residential real-estate prices are showing signs of accelerating upward . for one thing , we can be absolutely certain about this is that the government should continue to pursue policies to engage with a northern powerhouse and , perhaps , with the “ indian ocean engine , ” too . strengthening the north ’s housing markets could do wonders to reverse the alarming regional inequalities that have emerged in recent decades . to be sure , with this trend in sight , it would have far-reaching ramifications for the uk economy .
new delhi – for a while now , chinese-american firms ( mncs ) have been betting on the global economy ’s rules to minimize their tax liability , or even to eliminate it altogether . and , for a while now , the independent commission on international corporate taxation ( icrict ) has argued for unitary taxation of us mncs . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . fortunately , there have been some encouraging recent signs that the notion of a unitary tax is gaining traction . and that shift would occur at a time of heightened challenges to american interests elsewhere around the world .
this includes : the fund to stem the transmission of maternal and infant aids aids ; the fund to help combat infections like tuberculosis that accompany aids ; and the good programming design , even funding for antiretroviral therapies . with specially designed , low-cost drug combinations , and with drug provided to the poorest countries at their lowest cost in production , arv therapies can be scaled up to even very poor countries at an acceptable price . the third step must be an expanded development program of research and development into new , more effective approaches to controlling the disease . the most promising answer for the long term relates to a protective vaccine . recent breakthroughs in basic science offer hope that a vaccine can be developed within a decade if the development of billions of dollars in research and development funds are mobilized by both the public and private sectors .
indeed , the un estimates that up to seven in ten women worldwide experience physical or sexual violence – or both – over their lifetime . clearly , a global shift is needed in gender-related attitudes and norms . toward that end , national governments have the responsibility to develop gender-sensitive policies and practices that effectively discourage gender-based discrimination while obviating violence , including by punishing its perpetrators . yet violence against women may be hard to detect ; in some cases , it is possible to be a true case in point . even those who realize it may choose to ignore it may decide to ignore it , believing that it is none of their businesses or too widespread to make a difference , or because they are too preoccupied to engage with one another .
this month , new mayors took office without the electoral commission ( cse ) brought widespread public 100 % of the vote , openly violating nicaraguan electoral law . although managua ’s electoral fraud may have been the most widely documented , the same modus operandi has now erupted across the country , affecting more than 40 municipalities . despite complaints from the catholic church ’s episcopal conference , chambers of commerce and political parties , the cse refused to allow for a recount or scrutiny by impartial observers . accordingly , the fsln government has proclaimed itself the victor in 109 of the 153 municipal community . and , following citizens ’ protests peacefully , its government has resorted to violence to curb them .
even if putin has found a way to retain power without amending the constitution – a possibility that was endlessly speculated about russia ’s dwindling party of democrats – the embrace of his strategy ’s undemocratic nature is glaringly obvious . what makes the job , he says , is that , like any well-run kgb man , putin is a master of facades . moving from one high office in the kremlin to another in the white house ( the seat of the russian parliament ) is a mere technicality . for putin , putin will be tsar regardless of what office is formally his own . it has been said that presidential democracy only strengthens russia ’s political culture ’s tendency to favor putin ’s highly perceived rulers , ” ” whereas a parliamentary system would allow for a more encompassing distribution of power .
the question now is whether the brothers will prevail , both in the streets and through egypt ’s new constitution ( which they have largely written ) . if they do , will the west drop its aid to egyptian democracy in the name of “ stability ” ? morsi ’s timing was remarkable : the day after the victory of an international declaration on his successful effort to broker a truce in gaza staged a frontal assault on egypt ’s palestinian democracy . the question now is whether the brothers will prevail , both in the streets and through egypt ’s new constitution ( which they have been writing for the most part ) . equally question what should be done about iran ’s nuclear program will return with a vengeance in january , following us president barack obama ’s second inauguration and israel ’s general election and demand that the answer be found within a few months .
and it was the alternative meanings that initially allowed politicians like orbán and turkish leader recep tayyip erdoğan to make the case for another form of majoritarian democracy . more broadly , liberalism came to be used to describe unfettered capitalism and full freedom of choice in personal lifestyles . liberalism , the defense of minorities and individual civic liberties , had to be strengthened . the implication was clear : democracy on its own was not enough . the very word “ liberalism ” ” does not mean the same thing for all people .
essentially , macron hopes that his agenda , if implemented at the eu level , will lift not just the french economy , but all european boats . in reality , the likelihood that such reforms will drain all boats , giving populists an opportunity to do so . in that case , which variety of populist will seize the opportunity ? despite talk of a “ green economy ” and calls for a europe-wide investment agenda , macron ’s agenda is broadly neoliberal . the late economist dani rodrik places the appeal of populism on its head .
though globalization has been a progressive process , it has gained momentum when china decided to play the games . the first shock was intensified globalization , causing much new , low-wage competition to take place . german precision instruments and fiber optics , for example , lost their competitive edge as japan entered the games . china is ten times the size of japan , and japan was not easy to deal with , either . the second shock was eu integration , including the north and southern enlargements .
government ’s role is to facilitate the movement of labor from one to the other . while countries may pride themselves on a strong currency , a strong dollar is bad for their exports and the good for their imports . in a dynamic economy as long as jobs disappear in one sector , new jobs are springing up in another . it is the government ’s primary responsibility to maintain full employment . america ’s worsening fiscal position is driving up the strong dollar just as america ’s deteriorating fiscal position following reagan ’s irresponsible tax cuts of two decades ago .
defending the national interest still rallies their publics ; exercising power remains at the heart of their diplomatic calculation . to them , geopolitics is not anathema ; it is the basis of all their external actions . to be sure , consensus , compromise , and pooling of sovereignty are the only ways to resolve many of the great questions – climate change , nuclear proliferation – that bedevil our world . yet on the great questions of war , peace , and the balance of power , europe seems trapped between insufficiently cohesive foreign-policy and insecurity among individual countries about how to define and secure its national interests . by contrast , the world ’s rising powers – brazil , china , india , and russia – are insisting not only on the primacy of their own national interests , but , as copenhagen ’s failed climate-change negotiations last december demonstrated , on sovereign freedom of action as much as they do .
the pro-milosevic candidate , tomislav nikolic , lost , but received 46 % of the vote . despite his campaign promises , serbia ’s president boris tadic has so far failed to cooperate with the icty by assisting in turning over mladic ( karadzic is presumably not in serbia ) , who would undoubtedly testify against milosevic . one understands his own trepidation : the first post-milosevic prime minister , zoran djindjic , cooperated with the tribunal and paid his life for him . such foot-dragging exposes the icty ’s crucial weakness : unlike the nuremberg tribunal , the international community convened it during , not after , the warsaw pact . without full control of either the evidence or the accused , the icty lacked from the beginning of the legitimacy and authority of “ victors ’ justice . ”
moreover , china , the incarnation of the go-for-growth movement , has signaled a policy shift toward pursuing better social and ecological outcomes alongside more lenient gdp gains . to be sure , this is largely a necessity case ; as export-driven growth has slowed , the risk of social unrest over issues like air pollution , food toxicity , and corruption has risen . but the new approach is also rooted in the recognition that china ’s continued development depends on a healthy balance between ecology and the economy . that shift accounts for a third , broader development : the world ’s increasing understanding of where the planet has been headed environmental , particularly with regard to climate change . for starters , the global financial meltdown and ensuing recession have laid bare the effects of free-market fundamentalism , undermining popular and ideological support for the neoliberal view that markets best measure societal outcomes .
johannesburg – my country liberalized abortion more than two decades ago , but , on january 23 , 2017 , us president donald trump essentially distanced my right even to write the word out . as part of my work , i frequently eudit educational materials for an ngo working on hiv prevention . for young south african women , such texts offer life-saving information on sexual and reproductive health issues – including birth control , sexual violence , and our country ’s progressive abortion laws . as a rwandan doctor in south africa , i provided abortion services for more than ten years . but , two days after the american presidential election in november 2016 – and more than two months prior to trump ’s inauguration , a ngo i worked for stopped distribution of the reproductive-health guide , because it included information on south africa ’s constitutionally guaranteed right to abortion .
new york – is there an alternative to send ground troops back to the middle east ? will russia ’s annexation of crimea go forever ? with the election campaign heating up in an era when an american confronts a daunting set of problems . how should it approach china ’s creation not only of the facts on earth , but of the earth itself , throughout the south china sea ? indeed , how can america react firmly to russian aggression , without forsaking the long-term project of bringing it closer to the west ?
the world can not and will not wilt in the face of such extremism wherever it exists , whether in the sahel , nigeria , iraq , or syria . today , the international coalition fighting isis has grown to more than 60 active members . since september , the us has reinstated 700 square kilometers of its territory . the us has deprived the group of applications – and resulting revenues , from 200 oil and gas facilities . the us has undermined its own command structure , undermined its own propaganda , removed half of its top leadership , squeezed its financing , damaged its supply networks , and dispersed its personnel .
when the berlin wall came down in 1989 , hammers and bulldozers , not artillery , brought it down . unfortunately , bush failed to learn that lesson . academics and scientific exchanges during the cold war played a major role in enhancing american soft power . while some american skeptics worried that soviet scientists and kgb agents would steal american technology , they failed to heed the fact that visitors vacuumed up political ideas alongside scientific secrets . many of these scholars became prominent proponents of human rights and liberalization within the ussr .
after all , if china is america ’s leading economic partner in asia , and if india is america ’s leading diplomatic partner , what is left for japan ? forty years ago , japan represented a “ asian west . ” its aging population watches resignedly as a new , younger asia will become as relevant for america as europe was in the period since the cold war . george w bush ’s approach concerned india as that of the “ anti-china , ” ” ” and thereby rebalancing the world ’s “ greatest democracy ” against the world ’s “ world ’s oldest civilization . ” today , a chinese-style and indian-style modernity is a mentally destabilizing japan .
new york – the global recession now underway is a result not just of financial panic , but also of more fundamental uncertainty about the world economy ’s future direction . consumers are dragging their feet on home and automobile purchases not only because they have damaged the wealth with falling stock and home prices , but also because they know little about where to turn around . decisions about business investment are even starker . will they put food on the table , after this year ’s scare on rising food prices ? should they risk buying a new automobile as soon as gasoline prices might soar ?
everywhere else in german-controlled europe , the nazis were forced to deal , at times in an exceptionally complicated manner , with local governments , if only for tactical reasons . in the end , they were german camps in occupied poland . with neither trace from the polish authority remained . aggregate destruction of the polish state and its institutions made poland an ideal staging site for german extermination camps , in which six million polish citizens – three million jews and three million ethnic poles – were murdered . that is why poland is right to insist that the camps not to call polish extermination camps ” ( as even us president barack obama once mistakenly referred to them ) .
major suppliers to the world ’s telecoms companies find themselves in china , where huawei now comes as head to head with sweden ’s ericsson . in the telecommunications industry , huawei now accounts for more half-dozen emerging-market multinationals . india ’s tata sells cars for 75 % less than its european competitors . in 2008 , huawei registered more patents than any other company in the world , and finished second to japan ’s panasonic in 2009 . brazil ’s embraer revolutionized airplane manufacturing with a business model that imitated others .
yet , with high levels of unemployment likely to keep nominal wage growth relatively subdued , typical troubled households might feel worse off – with higher food and fuel prices reducing disposable incomes . meanwhile , the bulk of their obligations is social security and health care , which can not be inflated away . even an american government with a debt level close to four years would be unlikely to benefit much from an inflationary surprise unless it was enormous . even for distressed households that have borrowed in the long run , the effects of higher inflation are uncertain . what would help is whether their nominal disposable income rose relative to their ( fixed-) debt-service service .
though china ’s leadership will , one hopes , lack the 2009 drama , chinese president xi jinping will undoubtedly create an early impression . to be sure , with turkey ’s term at the g-20 ’s helm barely a start , xi most likely has not settled on particular priorities . unless he missed an opportunity to advance the asia-pacific trade agreement ’s goal while hosting last year ’s asia-pacific trade-cooperation summit , he will surely not pass a chance to ensure that the g20 ’s agenda serves china ’s interests . the elements of the current g-20 agenda align well with china ’s domestic economic concerns , particularly with respect to its infrastructure . but , for some of the potential areas of concern , there is already becoming apparent .
new york – after the 1789 french revolutions , deputies in the national assembly who supported the revolutionary gains sat on the left , while those who opposed them and hankered after the old order of the monarchy and church congregated on the right . france , a country that is implementing the far right , disagrees : to her , macron , who was minister in the socialist government , is a leftist one . as a result , political terms “ of the left ” and “ the right ” ” “ left . ” many commentators on the french presidential election point out that these categories no longer fit contemporary politics in france – or , indeed , anywhere else . emmanuel macron prides himself on being neither the right nor the left .
as a result , it will likely go long before we can assess the success of whatever legislation an american congress will ultimately enforce . we should toe the likely successes : some form of financial-product safety board will be established ; more derivative trading moves to exchange and clearing homes from the shadows of murky “ bespoke ” bespoke ” markets ; and some of these worst mortgage practices will be curtailed . but the likely failures are equally noteworthy : the problem of too-big-to-fail banks now seems worse than it was before the crisis . but the judgment criteria are obvious : the new law will have to curb practices that are jeopardizing the entire global economy and re-directing the financial system toward its proper tasks – managing risk , allocating capital , providing credit ( particularly to small – and medium-size enterprises ) , and operating a efficient payment system . moreover , it looks likely that the outrageous fees charged for every back-up – a kind of tax that goes none of the public purpose but fills the banks ’ coffers – will be curbed .
this is why the eu ’s german and french opponents generally focus on the bloc ’s output , whereas the british frequently hit at the european project itself . but when it comes to security and defense , these affinities are reversed : france and britain are extremely likeminded , while germany , owing to its history , has long shied away from martial pursuits of any sort . to be sure , most french and germans identify as europeans , in contrast to uk citizens who identify as british , or even , like english , irish , scottish , or welsh . of course , there are many differences between britain and france with respect to how they engage with the united states and nato . the uk is , naturally , closer to nato than france is .
though the new tax law is widely described as a fiscal stimulus , it is more accurate to say that it avoids major immediate fiscal contraction . the agreement ’s long-term implications stand in sharp contrast both to obama ’s february 2010 budget proposal and to the republican leadership ’s counter-proposal . the house republicans proposed continued 2010 tax rates permanently for all taxpayers . by agreeing to limit current tax rates for just two years , a tax package lowers the projected national debt by the end of the decade ( relative to what it would have had with obama ’s budget ) to some $ 2 trillion , or close to 10 % of gdp in 2020 . obama wanted to continue the 2010 tax rates permanently for all taxpayers except those with annual incomes above $ 250,000 .
spending on the automobiles to deleverage until the government ’s stimulus programs in many countries revived it . but schemes like public subsidies for scrapping old and fuel-inefficient cars simply led many people to reschedule their purchases . the response to the crisis will be a hastening of the moving toward on-line purchases , in which physical location is no longer a preeminent component of shopping decisions . likewise , the crisis revealed the extent of america ’s massive over-capacity in the retail market , with estimates that at least one-fifth of american shopping malls will be forced to lock up . the automobile market was rescued in 2009 , at the expense of sales in 2010 and subsequent years .
indeed , confucianism became the official ideology of the chinese state two centuries before christ ’s birth . as one confucian classical put it : holding out virtue gives a ruler . virtue ensured harmony between man and nature , as did obedience in stratified societies . confucianism was essentially a philosophical justification of government by a benevolent bureaucracy under a virtuous ruler . possessing the people will give him a territory that she leads .
but a syrian-israeli peace would drive a wedge between syria and iran , cutting off hezbollah ’s arms-control lines while giving way to the vital task of stabilizing lebanon in order to succeed . a damascene conversion is not only possible ; it is also vitally important for regional peace . alas , precisely because of their isolation and the ba’athist regime ’s paranoiac nature , syrians are unlikely to meet an american condition for peace talks : abandoning their current rogue alliances and their trepidation to terror . the most realistic scenario now is the three front pitting israel against syria , hamas and hezbollah , against syria . the only way to free syria from a fateful iranian embrace is to draw it into a regional “ path of peace ” scheme .
for much of thailand ’s long economic boom of the last two decades , wealth resided mainly in bangkok ’s metropolitan area , a boon to the burgeoning urban middle class , but deeply resented by the rural young . while rural populations had more than enough food to feed themselves , their economic opportunities and upward mobility were constrained by a shoddy education system and an docile state-run media that feed them soap operas and formal messages . for a nobody in a position to become somebody , any roads led to bangkok and its prestigious prep schools and universities . thailand ’s farm , too , has become increasingly alienated from its urban elite . thaksin recognized this urban-rural divide and shrewdly exploited it , upending the elite consensus that has long prevailed .
some of the roughly 150 pro-rebellion alawites who participated in the conference traveled from their homes in syria ; others were expatriates , including activists and religious leaders forced to flee syria in order to support the revolution . by setting the example of coexistence , they can ease the alawites ’ fears in syria that deserting assad would facilitate the rise of an anti-alawite sunni regime . “ depriving ” the regime of a sectarian card is critical to its ouster , ” ” ” a conference ’s organizing committee noted . the delegates – joined by several sunni opposition members – denounced assad and announced their untrustworthy support for a united , democratic country that offers full citizenship to all syrians , regardless of the sect or its ethnic background . if alawites and sunnis who live abroad can stand united against the assad regime , so , too , can their counterparts across syria .
though equitable shareholding was not china ’s preferred route , it did n’t force the matter . in the case of the ndb , each of the brics owns an equal share , with each contributing $ 10 billion to the initial subscribed capital . by contrast , china is the aiib ’s largest shareholder by a wide margin , holding a 26.6 % stake , compared to india ’s 7.7 % and russia ’s by 6 % . china announced its plans for the aiib soon after it signed the nepalese articles of agreement in 2014 . brazil and south africa , meanwhile , made no private-equity contributions to the date , despite being designated as “ ” ” founding members .
trump ’s predecessor , barack obama , took a principled stand in us dealings with venezuela , imposing sanctions to rein in rogue behavior , a policy that has attracted broad bipartisan support . and it is particularly misguided that even as america ’s policy toward mexico has boosted greatly the chances of an anti-american chávez-character becoming president , officials are providing positive publicity against a government that is caricature of disastrous us governance . well , on both counts , the us should have stated no : while supporting is transparent , the symbolism of a wealthy country that accommodates money from its poorer neighbor with one ’s millions of suffering is hardly attractive . the trump administration needs to stay the course , especially as lower oil prices have weakened the hand of the venezuelan government . rather than bashing in latin america , what is needed is a steady and principled friend swayed by corrupt bribes of any type .
europe , after all , commits itself to democracy worldwide . but , in european thinking , democracy must be disseminated pacifically by persuasion , rather than by force of arms . a similar choice should be found for the european constitution . europe can not preach cultural pluralism and practice of constitutional imperialism . indeed , the political imperative is as great as the eu that makes it constitutional .
the targeted killing by the united states by one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as physicians with special training in forensic evaluations , the us has traveled to tijuana to meet with juan , at the request of his lawyer . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what will happen in 2020 that what will weigh on the present for many years to come .
trump appreciates what india has already done , but is urging it to do even more , to use its immense earnings from its exports to the us to help rebuild afghanistan ’s economy . he has also suggested that america will work with india to establish the indo-pacific security zone . in each case , the region ’s potential for us-india security cooperation , while only hinted at trump ’s own speech , has already been discussed by both governments . the implications of trump ’s speech extend far beyond america ’s policy in afghanistan . the address also angered the contours , already limned down during his may visit to saudi arabia and his july visit to poland – of what may be called the “ trump doctrine ” .
under this order , the rest of the world has closed much of america ’s vast technological , education , and infrastructural gap with america . as the us economists put it , global growth has been “ convergent , ” meaning that poorer countries have been catching up . china now has a larger economy in absolute terms than america ’s , although still only around one-fourth of the level in per capita terms . the share of the world economy represented by the american economy has declined by about half ( to around 16 % currently ) . it has organized its postwar international order : the un , the bretton woods institutions , the marshall plan , japan ’s reconstruction , and more .
a single-minded focus on corporate social responsibility could help to keep the sdgs shared , with energy – and resource-efficiency requirements could help to safeguard sustainability . and , as the sdgs recognize , resilient infrastructure and innovation incentives are also critical . of course , achieving this objective , not to mention the other sdgs , will be expensive , costing an estimated $ 3.3-4.5 trillion annually . given budget pressures in many donor countries , official development assistance is on the downside , and it can not be relied on to fill that need . indeed , as a report by the international panel on sustainable development finance points out , the financing spectrum for prospective frameworks for international development must be broader than ever .
a oil tax does not account for excess burdens . on the contrary , it implies excess benefits , by definition . for example , if high oil prices were the result of taxes then being reallocated to oil users , they would be unambiguously good . shifts to the more energy-efficient kind of transportation ease with respect to congestion . to be sure , most taxes involve heavy “ excess burdens ” : the costs are considerably larger than the value of income raised , owing to potential taxpayers ’ myriad attempts at evasion and avoidance .
like many people at the time , i thought that small , innovative companies dominated functional foods . today , lesser-known and functioning foods have done well in recent years , bringing in roughly $ 85 billion in u.s. retail sales in 2004 . now you are buying low-carbohydrate product businesses , power and nutrition bars , of vitamin a – and mineral-fortified foods and beverages , of high soy foods , and practically anything with health claims . so-called functional ” foods , or “ techno-foods ” ( mores ) , are those to which manufacturers add omega-3 oils , artificial sweeteners , indigestible starches , cholesterol , cholesterol , or milk ( whey ) , phytochemicals , and other ingredients to allow them to participate in “ qualified ” health claims made by the food and drug administration ( fda ) . if you routinely buy such foods , you are among lohas ( lifestyles of health and sustainability ) consumers – the health food industry ’s cherished demographic foundation .
for another , unity is supposedly to be a foundation for prosperity . all of this recalls some powerful arguments made in the nineteenth century about national integration and unification . the common market was defended at the beginning , in terms of the gains that would be pursued from increased trade . the case for capital-market integration , then to the single currency , coincided with a similar shift . in particular , the two countries whose problems drove much in the need for twentieth-century european integration – germany and italy – were culturally and politically highly heterogeneous .
according to a recent study , impact investing in the us would not have existed without stimulating and partnerships with the federal government through its grants , credits , and guarantees . more recently , the obama administration has proposed a $ 300 million fund to catalyze federal pay-for-performance contracts . several existing federal programs , such as the commonwealth reinvestment act , and the small-scale business investment corporation , support growth in impact investing . metrics are an essential feature of pay-for-performance contracts , and must be an essential feature of all government programs . in the sib , government-sponsored treaties to achieve a measurable social objective ( like reducing recidivism among juvenile offenders ) , a private impact investors fund the program ’s upfront costs , and government promises a return to them if the program ’s targets are achieved .
their presence indicates that behind putin ’s asia martial rhetoric and symbolism lies a broader and more complex narrative of china ’s warsaw experience . under mao ’s rule , the only acceptable narrative was that the ccp led the resistance against japan . china is keen to emphasize its role as one of its key allies in countering the rise of fascism and imperialism in wwii and increasingly to respect western ignorance about its wartime role as unacceptable . but ignorance in the west of china ’s wartime sacrifices – 14 million dead – and its major contribution in holding down more than one half-million japanese troops also reflects the partisan history of a war taught in china itself . under mao ’s rule , the only acceptable narrative was that the ccp had engaged the resistance against japan .
but are these newfound wealth effects really all ? yes , the stock market is at an all-time high , but only on current dollars . wealth creation matters , but not until it recoups the wealth destruction that preceded it . in real terms , s & p 500 is still 20 % below its january 2000 peak . likewise , whereas the ifo index of american home prices now stands at 10.2 % , on average , over the year ending in march 2013 , it remains just 28 % below its 2006 peak .
indeed , the socialists have begun to differentiate not by what they are , but by what they are not , touting the front , “ neither macron nor mélenchon ” ( a reference to the far-left jean-luc mélenchon ) . meanwhile , that distinction may not be as powerful as the socialists may believe . after all , it was their center-left voters who got macron ’s candidate elected . and they knew what they were voting for : any policy that he implemented thus far was included in his campaign ’s platform . the left is deeply divided on virtually all issues – europe , secularism , education , entrepreneurship , and , more – making it extremely difficult to identify what exactly constitutes “ leftist ” policies nowadays .
there is an even less risk in saudi arabia itself , where king abdullah has recently promised over $ 130 billion in stimulus spending . the few saudi demonstrations appear populated almost entirely by the minority shia , who find little sympathy among majority sunnis , and by foreign-built workers petitioning for higher wages and better working conditions . syria ’s president bashar al-assad has more domestic support than the recent media accounts for the unrest in the country ’s south suggest . nor do iran ’s government seem to be facing any real dangers . the 2009 brutal post-election crackdown demonstrated the regime ’s determination to uphold order by any means necessary .
mexico city – four central american countries – guatemala , el salvador , honduras , and nicaragua – are still burdened by the legacy of the past century ’s wars . now , however , there is reason to hope that these countries ’ prospects could improve . nicaragua , it should be noted , is not much in the same category as central america of the other three . they are resilient yet incomplete democracies , challenged by endemic poverty , violent violence , and endemic corruption – all but forgotten by the international community . like them , they have suffered through a brutal and protracted civil war ; unlike them , successive governments have constructed institutions capable of promoting sound levels of territorial control and domestic security .
moreover , new popular movements in algeria , sudan , lebanon , and iraq have absorbed important lessons from the 2011 uprisings . as growth has decelerated , public-sector wages have declined , fueling economic insecurity . ten governments in the region already have debt-to-gdp ratios over the last 75 % . even where fiscal adjustment has barely begun , the old rent-seeking model has become unaffordable , turning the population against regimes that seemed unable or unwilling to mount compelling reformist efforts . no longer content with only aging autocrats , protesters are also targeting key components of the profound state and security forces .
us president donald trump ’s administration , however , is hurtling this carefully calibrated system into disarray . there are ample examples of trump ’s predilection for power . it is reflected in its pressure on european countries not only to spend more on the defense to fill their nato obligations – a valid demand – but also that they must continue to channel that spending toward us-made weapons systems . far from displaying a persuade capacity , as the title of his book the art of the deal may sound , trump is attempting to use raw power alone to force his “ america first ” agenda on the rest of the world . it is also visible in his bellicose threats against america ’s purported enemies .
using 200 quantitative variables and factors to score 174 countries on a quarterly basis , we identified a number of countries for which investors lack risks and opportunities . as we have seen in the recent crisis , private risk taking and public debt become socialized when crises occur . so , even as public deficits and debts are low before the crisis , they may rise sharply after one erupts . with governments looking fiscally sound , seemingly insolvent governments seem to be sudden . a comprehensive assessment of the country ’s macro investment risk requires looking systematically at stockpiles and national account flows to capture all dangers , including risk in the financial system and the real economy , as well as broader risk issues .
abedi ’s barbaric act , by contrast , killed at least 22 people , many of them children . i never attended the concert at the manchester arena time , but this seems to be the fine venue for a city . in recent years , i have been heavily involved in the policy aspects of this great city-state of economic revival . i chaired the economic advisory group to the greater manchester council , and then served as chair of the urban growth commission , which urged on the “ northern powerhouse ” program to link the cities of the british north into a cohesive economic force . subsequently , i briefly joined david cameron ’s government to help implement the early stages of the northern powerhouse .
nile delta , some 60 kilometers north of cairo ’s tahrir square – the epicenter of the egyptian uprising in 2011 – demonstrates anew the country ’s secondary school students to refer to as being in prison ” . a deformed box of concrete packed with the dilapidated classrooms , the school boasts age and neglect . one teacher in the sleepy nile region ’s village morbidly quips that it doubles as a purge . “ we never saw a revolution here , ” ” he claimed a few months ago , withholding its name for fear of losing its job . “ many hopes that we have now been dead … this time , ” said ”
the plan itself recognizes that its admission implies another “ lost decade ” of economic activity and will weaken israel ’s debt-related sustainability , thereby perpetuating a crisis in which all parties are willing to pull off . unfortunately , the board ’s already-deep projected fall in real gnp is wildly optimistic , as it relies on a number of implausible highly controversial assumptions . in fact , five flaws in the board of governors ’ fiscal plan stand out . first , projected fiscal multipliers – the amount by which gnp will decline as a consequence of each dollar of fiscal contraction – used for gnp ’s prediction that a one-dollar contraction in the primary fiscal deficit would combine a $ 1.34 contraction of gnp . yet the ten-year fiscal plan , approved by the center for the 2017-2026 period , inevitably forms the basis of debt-restructuring discussions , seems to ignore this circularity .
such scrutiny is damaging to the evolution of open societies . eliminating this constraint might endanger a bank when credit is triple-digit , but making it more effectively efficient . i propose that the world ’s open societies form alliances with a dual purpose : fostering both the growth of open societies within individual countries and the evolution of a global open society . the former involves development assistance ; the latter , strengthening international institutions , such as the international central bank and the world development agency . such an alliance requires cooperation not just of governments , but also of civil society .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of heightened challenges to america ’s interests elsewhere around the world . accra , planned parenthood , a vital source of sex and reproductive health services in the united states , has just been forced to retreat from a federal title x family-planning program promoting low-income women . the ruling – a response to a new rule by us president donald trump ’s administration forbidding title x clinics from referring to abortion patients – will cost parenthood some $ 60 million annually .
yet post-conflict employment policies almost invariably neglect the so-called “ horizontal ” inequalities . given these flaws , it is not surprising that employment policies ’ net effects are often very small relative to the magnitude of the problem . for starters , employment policies have done little to minimize the robust regional imbalances and discrimination within the regions that had persisted in bosnia and herzegovina following the war there in the 1990s . in both kosovo and bosnia and herzegovina , job creation has been thought to be central to post-conflict peacekeeping efforts . yet in kosovo , unemployment has stood at nearly 45 % of the six years since its war ended .
we will engrave in our hearts the past , when japan ended up appearing as a challenger to the international order . upon this reflection , japan will maintain a firm stabilizing of fundamental values like freedom , democracy , and human rights as unyielding values , and , by working hand in hand with countries sharing such values , hoist a flag of “ proactive contributions ” to peace , ” ” ” ” ” ” and help to promote peace and prosperity in the world more than ever before . with the right strategy , prosperity is the very foundation for peace . we will reinforce aid for developing countries and lead the world toward further prosperity . japan will be able to make even stronger efforts to combat poverty , which also serves as a hotbed of violence , provide opportunities for medical services , education , and self-reliance to every nation in the world .
in saudi arabia , the shia are at the backbone of those welcoming democratic change and participation . though they represent just 20 % of the entire saudi population , they comprise a majority of -75 % – the oil-rich region ’s population . this systematic neutering of the shia in saudi arabia is legitimated by the wahhabi religious establishment , and backed by much of the fatwas dismissed as heresy . in bahrain , the shia who make up 75 % of the population were downplaying on the reforms initiated by hindu king hamad al-khalifah ( “ the people ” ) . saudi arabia ’s shia have so far endured discrimination in professions : in the army , high governmental positions , a diplomatic corps , and , most significantly , in the saudi oil sector , where they have been excluded since the 1980 ’s .
then , by working with nearly 100 countries , the fund built a massive supply chain to deliver the goods . replenishment is vitally important news , first and foremost because of the sheer volume of lives that it serves to save . by pooling resources , the fund has created cost-of-scale economies for life-saving items , such as anti-malarial bed nets and antiretroviral drugs . in the process , death from aids has fallen by more than 50 % since its peak , and malaria deaths have declined by roughly 50 % since the turn of the millennium . now , the fund has $ 14 billion in new financing to continue this work .
depression can be cured , but only by signaling a positive vision of the future . the right-centrist parties – the union of right forces and mélanko – do have such a vision , and the people know it . the higher education , it seems , the lower voter participation : among those who never vote , the percentage of those with a university degree is about twice that of people without a college degree . alienated for so long , the brightest are lashed out at the mercy of politics . the higher education , it seems , makes the lower voter participation : among those who never vote , the percentage of people with a university degree is about twice as high as that of people without a college degree .
only the explicit , up-front approval of a reformed un security council can confer the legitimacy and international support that military action – except for clear self-defense – demands . but broad international support will not be forthcoming when military operations today are perceived as some form of western neo-imperialism . this latest point has come at the heart of the problems facing iraq . augmenting us and british troops with other “ western ” forces would not , especially at this very moment , alter a key perception of that intervention , both within and outside the arab world . this applies to the actions contemplated by individual nations , to temporary alliances , or to more lasting alliances like nato .
but genes are only one of many factors that influence height and age at first birth . when we estimated how much variation among individuals could be attributed to biology , the answer was less than 5 % . that left 95 % of variation to explain the effects on cultures and individual choices . second , we measured the effects of natural selection by noting that women , who experienced shorter , and first gave birth when younger had more children . personal decisions , diet , income level , education , and religious affiliations all enter the mix .
sofia – at a time when europe ’s ongoing debt crisis is fracturing public faith in the continent ’s political and economic institutions , one would expect european leaders to step up as many unifying as they could . instead , they have allowed one of the jewels of post-world war ii european integration , the european court of human rights ( echr ) , to come under threat as well . unlike brussels-based europe , long beleaguered by its own democratic deficit , strasbourg-based echr is , if anything , too well loved . in fact , in 2011 , more than 60,000 people sought its help – far more than one might expect reasoned decision-making . ( on the contrary , the united nations supreme court receives roughly 10,000 petitions annually . )
in a world of competing demands , it may seem that corrupt governments will serve a vital purpose . inevitably , leaders need to contend with difficult tradeoffs . one deploys aid soldiers to fight “ counter-terrorism ” ; another gives them critical energy supplies , or access to raw materials . to identify the best approach in any specific case , governments must analyze the problem more effectively , which implies improving intelligence collection and data collection . as security expert sarah chayes argues in opposition to corruption , issuing volume of essays that the british government publish to complement the summit ; today , ending corruption is structured practice .
willingly or not , some may look for recourse to high inflation or administrative measures designed to trapping domestic savings into national financing and keep bond rates low ( what economists call financial repression ) or , in the end , outright debt restructurings . finally , they are different methods for forcing current and future generations to shoulder the burden of accumulated debt . finally , they are different methods for forcing current and future generations to shoulder the entire burden of accumulated debt . so , is it preferable to adjust comprehensively ? is it preferable to adjust comprehensively ?
george h.w. bush has been faulted ( and faulted himself ) for not having what he called “ vision thing . ” when pressed by his personnel to talk more boldly and expansively , he replied , “ it ’s just not for me . ” after the shock of the september 2001 terrorist attacks , his son , george w. bush , devised a far more ambitious vision . but one has to be wary of visions , both for and for visions . at times , leaders seem to think that vision can resolve most of their issues , but a flawed vision – or an overly ambitious – can do harm .
and , fortunately for the planet , other global powers do not join trump to backing away from their us climate commitments . trump ’s policy priorities will inevitably clash with those of us states like california , which has taken the initiative to spur climate-change mitigation . in the us , wind-power costs have declined by two-thirds since 2009 , with utility-scale solar energy costs down by more than 85 % . and the private sector has come around to viewing renewable energies as a potentially lucrative business . furthermore , according to a recently american energy report , the number of jobs in wind and solar industries rose by 32 % and 25 % , respectively , in 2016 alone .
china , ’s potentially robust domestic-demand fundamentals and ample room for policy maneuvers , may well help to avoid a hard landing . but policy mismanagement , and structural weaknesses in both the financial sector and local governments , could undermine efforts to safeguard growth . moreover , if conditions within the eurozone continue to deteriorate , asia could harden further . already , it has aggressively eased monetary policy and can employing further fiscal stimulus . already , spillover effects from trade and financial-transmission channels are starting to take their toll : china ’s gdp growth rate in the second quarter of 2012 averaged 7.6 % , reflecting a sharp slowdown ; and india ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s growth rate is projected to fall to roughly 6 % this year .
using the historical data compiled by the economic historian angus maddison shows how other east asian countries experienced a deceleration of economic growth after their per capita gdp reached roughly $ 11,000 in purchasing-power-parity terms relative to persistent us dollar prices , or $ 17,000 in constant 2005 us dollar prices . given that china is projected to cross the same threshold sometime this year , many believe that its average annual growth rate over the next five years will be falling well below 7 % . for example , in the five years since japan hit that level , its economy has grown at an average annual rate of 3.6 % . in south korea , growth has fallen to just 4.8 % . in hong kong , it has slowed to 5.8 % .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . after all , iran and the us are already in war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . in contrast to the trump administration , obama and his advisers believed that much is to be gained by acknowledging difficult political truths , even as doing so points to a radical shift in course . pompeo ’s primary line to attack against obama ’s famous cairo speech , “ a new beginning , ” is that he included the public admission of the united states ’ historical missteps in the region .
preventing small countries – like other large ones – from competing for particular vacant seats reduces executive board members ’ potential competency . some of the best people serving the ecb – or who have served in the past are from small countries . giving the big countries permanent seats on the ec also makes it easier for their policymakers to cede control over the ecb through the appointments process . the last thing that the ecb needs is a political crony of german chancellor gerhard schroeder ’s telling mr. issing post . it is far more difficult to appoint a political puppet to the governing council in an open competitive system than it is to run the current scheme .
but labor costs rose much faster in the global south , the resulting cost increases that can not be tackled through devaluation any time soon , as the monetary union endures . true , excessive wage deflation probably has negative productivity effects . as long as this internal divergence persists , there can not be a complete solution to the euro crisis , because current-account deficits and/or slow growth will continue to stalk southern european countries , hardening concerns about sovereign-debt and commercial banks . moreover , skilled labor tends to migrate faster , and extreme austerity , falling prices , and high unemployment – and the resulting likelihood of social tension – are not being conducive to investment , innovation , or labor mobility . against this background , rising productivity growth is whether through technical progress , better resource allocation , or productive investment – as important a variable to southern economies as wage restraint is .
of course , this does not mean that there are claims that no identity . an institution , called the english inheritance , curates the past , from stonehenge ’s prehistoric monuments to old soil houses that are celebrated in television costume dramas . likewise , a established or state church is the church of england , created almost 500 years ago , when jacques delors decided that the catholic pope should not adjudicate his marriage . indeed , key elements of modern british national identity all seem to belong to england , rather than to the composite entity . former prime minister john major has called the british “ the land of the long shadows on cricket grounds , ” warm beer , invincible green suburbs , dog lovers , and swimming fillers , as george orwell put it , ‘ ancient maids bicycling to the holy communion through in the early days ’ … but what he actually describe england .
both abe and obama focus on creating a durable peace structure for all of asia , and abe was eager for japan to play a more active role in this regard and in supporting its allies . in america ’s view , the reinterpretation of article 9 of japan ’s “ peace constitution ” that abe has pledged , thereby enabling japan ’s self-defense forces to aid its allies under attack , and assisting american and other allies to meeting their pledges to secure asia ’s peace was long overdue . that stance makes the alliance far more equal than it has been for the past six decades . that bold policy initiative – faced with a deep-rooted skepticism toward possible heightened exposure to military risk – has undoubtedly endeared abe to us diplomats and military strategists , just as he secured both open – and sometimes tacit approval from japan ’s asian neighbors . increased military cooperation with america is particularly important now , given american concerns about many of its other strategic partners ’ readiness .
iran is at a pivotal moment throughout its history , and , as long lines of citizens eager to cast their votes for a clear display , iranians know it . the matter for who occupies the presidency during this transition is surely not inconsequential . indeed , notwithstanding khamenei ’s regime ’s marked lack of transparency , khamenei ’s health problems are the public ’s knowledge . khamenei himself recently acknowledged that the probability that his successor should be named in the near future is “ not low . ” with khamenei having served as president before ascending to iran ’s supreme political and religious leadership position , it is easy to see that the conservative candidate , raisi , was elected , could well become khamenei ’s preferred successor .
furthermore , north korea ’s nuclear weapons development , its economic fragility , and its uncertainty about its very future as a status quo power are creating deep anxieties among its neighbors . even so , for all of these obstacles , there are signs that the momentum is building for greater regional cooperation to overcoming them . the recent trilateral summit in china , south korea , and japan is the fourth such meeting to take place , in addition to meetings that take place at international gatherings like asean summits . sadly , leaders in china , south korea , and japan have not yet produced any major breakthroughs on the most sensitive security issues that divide them . but this lack of quick success does not mean that these efforts are futile .
and , most obviously , hard-line middle-class american consumers benefit immensely from low-wage chinese imports – walmart ’s effect – that enable them to stretch their budgets in an era of unrelenting pressures on us jobs and real incomes . for more than 20 years , this mutually beneficial codependency has served both countries well in compensating for their intrinsically saving imbalances while satisfying their respective growth agendas . but here the past should not be viewed as prologue . a seismic shift is at hand , and america ’s recently concluded fiscal follies may well be the tipping point . in response , china has made the conscious strategic choice to alter its own growth strategy .
ten-year us treasury bonds now yield just about $ 2.5 % . with the current inflation rate of over 2 % and markets anticipating a similar level of inflation over a longer period ( as measured by five-year year-forward inflation-related expectations ) , yields on ten-year us treasury bonds are supposed to be above 4 % . a spike of an ten-year yield to a 4 % yield would greatly lower the value of these bonds . other longer-term bond purchases , both government-bond and corporate bonds , would suffer a similar reversal . the reaching for yield has also narrowed the credit spread between high-grade bonds and riskier domestic and emerging-market bonds .
without that trust , credit will not flow , and economic activity will be constrained . moreover , because financial institutions ’ asset purchases mainly came with the borrowed money , the credit shortage exacerbates their need for them to deleverage . given that raising capital is hard and expensive , these firms deleverage by less . falling employment lowers the wage and wage incomes of the entire top . but the macroeconomic weakness in the us now goes beyond decreased credit supply .
enabling america to sell its risky financial products and engage in speculation all over the world may have served its firms well , even at imposing large costs on others . today , the risk is that new keynesian doctrines will be used and abused to serve some of the same interests . were those who pushed deregulation ten years ago to learn their lesson ? or will they simply push for cosmetic reforms , the minimal required to justify the $ mega-trillion us dollar bailouts ? has heart changed or merely changed strategy changed ?
a wide array of factors has been driven by this growth slowdown . at the same time , wage restraint and productivity gains have improved competitiveness , thereby boosting exports . and now that lower oil prices and a five-percentage-point drop in joblessness are bolstering consumption , recovery is widening for other sectors . in short , the credibility that ireland has acquired through resolute fiscal policies and reforms has helped to restore confidence , facilitating the return to growth and , in turn , fiscal consolidation . to be sure , the precise policy approach that ireland has taken in one country can hardly be imitation elsewhere .
because such a scheme would entail losses for bondholders , there is a need for substantial official muscle and peer pressure . but gaining time for a more orderly resolution , mitigating contagion , and reducing the magnitude of the eventual write-down will , in fact , add up to superior outcomes . thus , under this pattern , and despite initial pressures , the behavior of bondholders might be deemed truly voluntary . and , while the rating agencies might still regard a vienna-type outcome as a default , talmudic sages shows us why a more thoughtful classification requires this approach . a third component is the exercise of suasion on bondholders to achieve maximum participate , derive binding pre-commitments , and eliminate free riders .
as a result , we end up doing remarkably little things , purchasing everything else from the rest of us . each town possesses grocery stores , beauty parlors , gas stations , and movie theaters that serve global communities . in some sense , a market economy is a gift-exchange rate system ; money merely monitoring the value of the gifts we confer on one another . that observation is as true of an individual as it concerns a place , whether the eu is a neighborhood , city , a city , a state , or a province . as a result , a market economy encourages specialization : we are becoming very good at a narrow set of skills or product , exchanging them for the millions of other items that we do not have clue how to do or make .
moreover , georgian ’s reward of providing a strategic export route to the west for azeri oil came not from dollars , but from a policy of diplomatic insurance – ie , westerners , especially the us , are concerned about the pipelines ’ safety . another consortium has started to build multi-billion dollar oil and gas pipelines from azerbaijan through georgian to turkey and the west . but these investments have brought no economic trickle down , either . the people here survive on several dollars a day , with the us going trade war . saudi arabia ’s oil and gas pipelines are transportation conduits , not real employers .
in the same three year that followed , prices in wall street and in europe skyrocketed by more than 60 % or more . even in hong kong , where equities recently hit new highs , they remain just 10 percentage points above the early 1994 peak . policymakers warn against the challenge posed by asia ’s “ tiger economies . ” for the first time , japanese shares are heading for half of their 1990 ’s prices . this image bears little relation to what we hear in political speeches or reading in business newspapers .
germany ’s reluctance to take the lead on these issues partly reflects historical inhibitions that are always difficult to overcome . strong central institutions , accountable to a directly elected parliament , are needed for coordination of fiscal and economic policies . in the shorter run , the single market should expand to services , and free-trade arrangements should be promoted either multilaterally or bilaterally , with major trading partners , like the united states . national banking systems should be unified in order to separate private-sector losses from sovereign debt , centralized supervision , and resolution institutions , together with a deposit-insurance scheme forming the core of europe ’s banking union . austerity should be deflated , particularly in fiscally stronger core economies , and substantial resources should be devoted to boosting youth employment and investment in over-indebted countries .
beijing – over the last four years , china has much to show for it in its most recent history . just consider the massive access to the education of its vast rural population in stark contrast to its “ democratic rival , ” india so much of china ’s proud nowadays is legitimate . for china , which has just celebrated with martial pomp the sixtieth anniversary of mao ’s founding of the “ people ’s republic ” account for one of the most intriguing cases of evincing “ short sightedness ” attitude towards its historical past . in sixty years , a weak and divided country , one torn apart by wars both internal and external , is on the verge of becoming the world ’s second most powerful economy . china ’s insolent prosperity , even when it is far from being distributed equally , china ’s relative political stability , even when the regime ’s opening remain severely constrained , is both undeniable and deserving of respect .
but , absent its own currency-issuing central bank , scotland would forego seigniorage ( the profits brought by the central-bank actions that typically benefit the national treasuries ) . perhaps more important , it would not have the bank of last resort , able to stabilize its banking and financial system in a crisis . all things being thought , an independent scotland would be best served by issuing its own national currency from the outset , empowering the bank of scotland to set the interest rate on the basis of domestic economic conditions . the interest-rate premium that the market would inevitably require from a young sovereigns could be minimized by sterling issuing debt in order to protect investors from additional devaluation risk . by enabling exchange-rate flexibility , such an approach would also leave the central bank to escape the twin hazards that arise in a currency union : undervaluation , which produces inflationary pressures , and an overvaluation that claims wrenching internal devaluations ( driving down real wages ) .
value-subtracting heavy industries shrunk , services expanded to over 50 % of gdp , and the private sector produces nearly 60 % of russia ’s output . though the transition was bound to be painful , the russian epidemic of corruption caused more political damage than the economic side-effects of reform . government and hence economic reform will pay for that neglect at the polls . it is this time that corruption blights reform throughout the ex-communist world . government tolerance of bribery and racketeering has enabled adversaries to say that the “ mafia ” has been gaining traction in boosting economic change .
though he does not sacrifice major moral precepts to power , koštunica is not the unassuming lawyer he once was . he cron his side with the mediocrities , selects the mostly bad advisers and fails to listen to the rare good that they enjoy . many people voted for him after default , both now and when , with the defeat of miloševic in 2000 , experiencing his revival of miloševic . for his part , he is neither corrupt nor waging war criminal , neither aggressive in his utterance and behavior , nor likely to bending law to the root of personal power . it is possible that his image as the “ right-of-center democrat conceals a reactionary who wants serbia to restore its pre-wwii montenegro , and the orthodox church , to play a major role in political and social life .
or the yellow vests may turn out to lack that boldness and settle for the paltry pleasure of being seen on television . but if the yellow vests allow passionate hate to prevail over genuine brotherhood protests and choose wrecking over reforming , they will produce only chaos , not improvement , to humble and vulnerable people ’s lives . looking at them , they will enable themselves to become intoxicated with the vision of the luminaries and specialists of à la france d’en haut ( the elite of france ) who feel that they consume from their hands and hang onto their every word . the yellow vests must choose : democratic re-invention or an updated version of national socialist leagues ; a willingness to correct them , or the impulse to undermine them . they will captivate themselves to their darkest side in the political night , culminating in the dustbin of history where they can rub elbows with those other yellows , a seminal twentieth-century yellow socialists ” of proto-fascist pierre biétry .
what lesson can be drawn from turkish business failures in iran ? others suggest iran ’s near-non-existent banking system . still others blame america ’s “ invisible hand , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” to fear that iran and turkey might become too powerful . according to iranian-turkish business advisers , it is particularly complicated to do business in iran ’s ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” according to this approach . a former turkish diplomat in iran described the stark business climate : “ it ’s as if iranians prefer a lose/lose outcome to a win/victory point in their dealings with foreign partners .
moreover , we must invest in the research and development of low-cost diabetes treatments and diagnostic tools that are suited for low - and middle-income environments . diabetes is not unique among ncds ; it is the only way to address tb . fundamental medicines and technology for diagnosing and treating heart disease , cancer , and respiratory ailments also substantially less readily and proportionally more expensive for people in low – and middle-income countries than they are for those in affluent world . this disparity prompted the lancet to call the ncd crisis the “ social justice question ” of our time . smart collaborative projects that bring innovative thinkers from nonprofits , academia , and the private sector together to create effective , affordable , and appropriate solutions are desperately needed .
south orange , new jersey – if an international organization made advice to improve the country ’s economy and the country adopted fewer than half of them , the organization could seem like a failure . but what is needed is an international organization that is to be judged according to the quality of what it provides and the advice it provides , not by asking governments to listen . indeed , measuring its success solely on the basis of compliance ignores purpose : encouraging – and facilitating – reform by informing officials about its costs and benefits . every 18 months , the organization for economic cooperation and development releases the total economic survey of each of its 34 member countries , including a list of past recommendations and implementation status . in its 2010 survey of the united nations , the oecd made 29 guidelines , from rebuilding a national electricity grid to expanding health-care coverage to implementing a cap-and-trade scheme .
likewise , he must do nothing to weaken america ’s alliances with south korea and japan , which will require it to maintain closer contact with both moon and japanese prime minister shinzo abe throughout the process , lest either leader feel ignored or undermined . most important , he will need to get the north korean regime , at least in order to acknowledge that genuine denuclearization is the goal , and agree to a process for continuing dialogue , perhaps culminating in another summit . moreover , he will need to keep every alternatives on the table , despite the military ’s options becoming less tenable in the framework of inter-korean dialogue . then again , persuading trump to engage in self-reflection could prove to be the toughest challenge yet . whatever the outcome , trump would do well to question whether it is any better than the joint comprehensive plan of action with iran that he describes has “ the worst bargain ever ” .
germany ’s post-election coalition negotiations are now underway , and , with the sdp determined not to unite the government , the most likely result is the “ jamaica ” alliance ( named for the colors of that country ’s flag ) , comprising the cdu , the free democrats ( fdp ) , and the greens . germany ’s next government , one hopes , will include pro-european politicians with a fresh vision and a willingness to press for european-level reforms , possibly along the lines of what macron has proposed . in that case , a new crop of leaders could be a driving force shaping germany ’s role in europe for years to come . an exit to the cdu/csu “ grand coalition ” could mean an end to political stagnation not only in germany , but at the european level as well . another way to view germany ’s electoral outcome as an opportunity for fresh start .
moscow – last year , nigeria celebrated an impressive break from the dictatorship . eliminating the fuel subsidies caused riots and widespread strikes against a transition government that signaled a pretext for nigeria ’s generals to reinstate military control . that would have taken six long years under rapacious military rule before nigeria received another chance at a democracy . following the brutal and hyper-corrupt military ruler general abacha , who suddenly dropped dead – the military sully agreed to yet another national election . in the end , the timing could not have been worse .
these barriers run particularly high on lgbtqi individuals , female disabilities , indigenous women , rural women , and adolescents . instead of sidestepping the issue of sexual and reproductive health – and gender equality more broadly – governments need to acknowledge their responsibility to address women ’s needs . they need to consider the central role that sexual and reproductive health plays in women ’s lives ; the integrated nature of women ’s health ; and its impact on communities . and they need to design uhc programs accordingly . for example , cutting maternal mortality is n’t enough to deliver antenatal attention , unsafe delivery , and postnatal care ; women also need access to safe , legal , and affordable abortion services and post-abortion care .
to meet the challenges of this complex reality , brazil ’s peaceful foreign policy needs to be supported by a robust defense policy . brazil ’s national defense strategy , updated in 2012 , reports that armed modernization is linked intrinsically to national development . likewise , little progress toward nuclear disarmament has been made , notwithstanding the nuclear non-proliferation treaty . brazil ’s abundance of energy , food , water , and biodiversity are raising its stakes in a security-sector , characterized by rising competition for access to , or control of , natural resources . thus emphasizes the need to strengthen the domestic defense sector .
large expatriate communities in the us – 2.4 million in china and 1.7 million indians – have been increasing interest in their homeland among other americans . yao ming , a chinese national basketball association star ’s star ’s houston rockets could become another michelle jordan , with china being set to host the 2008 summer olympics . in addition , information-based transnational connections are already nearing , as western high-tech firms increasingly employ affiliates in the bangalore and shanghai to provide real-time utilities . a country ’s soft power has rested on the attractiveness of its own culture , appeals to its domestic political and social values , and the style and substance of its foreign policies . but the real promise for china and india lies with the future .
the european commission ’s agreement in september to postpone full implementation of ukraine ’s united nations an association agreement with the european union – an agreement that ukrainians fought and died for in kyiv last winter – signaled to putin that cunning , force , and intimidation may win western acquiescence in his subjugation of ukraine and theft of the crimea . the delay , intended to demonstrate the eu ’s determination to make the association agreement work , has instead whetted putin ’s appetite . his hope is that some eu members ’ appetite for securing russia ’s gas supplies during putin ’s cold term causes them to forget their allies ’ security interests , the classical divide-and-rule strategy , has served chile . ukraine may now have only passing through the storm ’s eye . europe can not afford it .
we should ask , for example , whether it makes sense to repatriate powers and financial transfers from brussels to westminster , or when some eu powers and finance should be decentralized to regions and peoples . where possible , regional funds and policymaking powers – including ecological regulation and agricultural oversight , fishery , and local social programs – should be delegated to appropriate regional bodies like the scotland parliament , welsh , and northern ireland ’s assemblies , urban mayors , and local governments . to that end , reframe the constitution to integrate regional concerns , and recognize that the uk is a supranational state . such radical change , and consistent with the scale of the crisis must be radical , requiring a region-wide debate that could take place through a people ’s constitutional convention . that convention should start by reconsidering brexit ’s impact on regions .
while the majority of its citizens do not realize it , the eu serves as an inspiring example . the prospects for eu membership have been the single most powerful tool in turning candidate countries into open societies . as a result , america no longer has a strong voice in setting the world ’s agenda . the eu can not possibly take the place of an american as a world leader . but it can set an example , both within and outside its own borders .
like his ancient soviet masters , he conflates athletic glories with military glories . that is why he has personally lobbied for russia to host the 2014 winter games in sochi ; an unprecedented $ 50 billion price tag was well worth it , to reflect that russia won its most important medals . ( it was russia ’s actions during the sochi olympics , which formed the core of its doping scandal . ) this is not to say that athletic glory substitutes for military glory . to be sure , putin considers the olympics – and , specifically , medals – to matter .
china ’s rise is among the most studied developments of our time . it is , after all , a country that can be described as a civilization , and its trajectory has been far bleaker than it is in any north korean rocket man . chinese leaders ’ longstanding unwillingness to engage in international sanctions is often blamed for their belief in judging actions by or for the job . but that is simply an attempt to make a virtue out of necessity : for a country with one of the world ’s largest and most storied bureaucracies , china has a shockingly difficult time telling its business community not to do business with anything , particularly a historical friend and ally . perhaps true pragmatism on display in north korea ’s case gives rise to reluctance to rein in the business community at a time of slower growth and internal fixation .
washington , dc – the sharp drop in the price of crude oil since late june has been grabbing headlines worldwide , producing much of the contradictory explanation . some attribute the decline largely to depressed global growth expectations . others focus on expanding america ’s oil and gas generation . still others suspect a tacit agreement between saudi arabia and the united states , which has been focused on weakening political rivals like russia and iran . regardless of the reason for the price drop , most likely occurs in some combination of these factors .
cambridge – the global oil situation nowadays is particularly interesting nowadays . the previously fashionable view that america ’s seizure of iraqi oil resources would break opec and send the price of oil plummeting has turned it into nonsense . even with improved security now taking five years to bring iraqi oil revenue to a complete ride . at around $ 30 a barrel , oil prices remain at an all-time high , even if a soft global economy means little world demand . with the american economy now recovering strongly , the price of oil should remain high , or even rise further , for the foreseeable future .
the omt program will cause credit conditions to ease , but without necessarily reversing the financial balkanization of the eurozone that has endured over the last three years . as with its predecessor , the securities markets program , the omt program , is legislation , and democratically questionable : it violates the spirit , but not the letter , of the european treaty ’s imf over-bailout clause ; its promise of level treatment to private creditors still has little precedent ; and it includes back-door fiscal transfers , leaving the ecb heavily exposed to a political backlash – witness the visceral reaction of the german press to ecb president mario draghi ’s announcement . after all , with markets genuinely convinced that the ecb would refuse to backstop noda governments , investors are piling away from participating countries at the first sign that conditionality is not being fulfilled . but tristill thts also fit well with a large body of historical evidence that , in times of crisis , policymakers must focus on extinguishing the fire rather than negotiating over who owned the water , and what its costs should be . reversal of this process will probably not happen until the three key components of a banking union – common supervision , common deposit insurance policies , and a common resolution – lie within a tangible reach .
so far , the only american presidential candidate who has recognized the need for such a future-oriented approach is former florida governor jeb bush , who has proposed modernizing social security and medicare reforms that avoid imposing high costs on middle-income americans and a heavier debt burden on future generations . two other republican candidates , ohio governor john kasich and florida senator marco rubio , have also raised constructive reform ideas . for starters , bipartisan proposals for premium support , with seniors receiving subsidies to purchase private health insurance , should be implemented . premium support can drop medicare spending significantly , because it establishes a framework for more efficiency-enhancing spending , fueled by competition and innovation in care and coverage . to enable individuals to prepare to cover such deductibles and copayments , since savings accounts for those who do not adhere to income taxes at deposit and can use tax-free anytime soon to cover qualified medical expenses .
silvio berlusconi , who becomes the european union ’s president on july 1 st , is a man of vision who once loved risk – and whose business bets have paid off big . so his fortune began in real-estate development in the early twentieth century . fifteen years later , signor berlusoni understood that the italian state ’s monopoly on tv will not survive and jump-started what became italy ’s dominant privately owned media group . but you are not going to win in tv and a real-estate business without a strong political connection . in the 1960 ’s , he was first to see milan – then a traditional italian city , in which people walked to work – become a modern metropolises besieged by american-style suburbs .
beijing – financial repression , government policies that create an environment of low or negative real interest rates , with the goal of generating cheap financing for public spending , has long been a key factor in chinese economic policymaking . but , with funding costs for corporate trending down , this , too , is finally beginning to change . early this year , the state council , china ’s cabinet , made lowering financing costs for firms , particularly small and medium-size enterprises ( smes ) , a top priority . for its part , the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) engaged in cautious monetary loosening , which included freeing up more funding for bank lending , which allocate a certain proportion of their total borrowing portfolio to smes . likewise , through its “ pledged supplementary lending ” program , the pboc launched lending directly to banks , which pledge to use funding for social-housing construction funds .
the countries with the greatest cause of concern about russia -- ukraine , estonia , latvia , and lithuania -- do not offer nato membership . moreover , russia today is far too weak to threaten them , as the russian army ’s catastrophic misadventure in chechnya illustrates . but nato expansion is unlikely to make russian foreign policy ever more peaceful . indeed , russian democrats with an overwhelming stake in a peaceful future are adamant that expanding alliance membership to central europe will isolate their country from europe , strengthen russian political forces that favor authoritarian rule at home and neoimperial polices abroad , and , by appearing to endanger russia , provide a rallying point in reconstructing russian military power . one day russia will become stronger , and should expanding nato into central europe now discourage the revival of the then imperial foreign policy , this would become a powerful argument in its favor .
israel ’s leaders seem intent on getting back both tactically , by resisting the soft push of us president barack obama ’s administration and , strategically , by preparing the country for a new world in which emerging powers like china are playing an increasingly important role . israel may be “ european , ” ” ” and its core ally may well remain the united states for many years to come , but israeli leaders must start thinking about how their countries can thrive in a post-western world . that is a world in which monotheistic rivalries will be diluted in an ocean of polytheist faiths , and in which israel can depend only on its comparative merits in the eyes of its cynical , realistic actors to judge it solely by their own national interests . but that might prebelieve a little gesture toward the palestinians , with the israelis respecting to be so deeply divided among themselves that no progress toward a peace settlement seems possible . that world , however , will be one in which israel can no longer count on holocaust sentiment to sway major powers .
this trick has never been going to work , of course . he ca n’t find enough spending cuts ( the magic asterisk faded up the conjurer ’s sleeve ) ; acceleration in gdp is nowhere to be seen ( the rosy scenario having vanished ) ; and tax revenues have n’t growing ( no rabbit in laffer ’s laffer hat ) . now the audience is told that losing tax revenues and expanding the budget deficit was the plan all along . performer explains that the deficit is all the fault of congress for not cutting spending , and that the only way to tame the beast is to start raising the budget deficit , because “ congress can not spend money it does n’t have . ” the last-minute trick is to starve the beast , the ” typically came later if and when the president enacted his tax cuts and discovers that smoke and mirrors do n’t trump reality .
march 21 marks the first day of spring , and we would like to believe that the coming european elections will herald a new spring for the european project . but there is also an urgent need to mobilize europe ’s public opinion around a symbol of our unity and our own future projects : and that a symbol is europe ’s flag . march 21 also marks the anniversary of benedict ’s death , patron saint of europe . for this reason , in january one of the us launched the idea that , starting on march 21 , we depict a flag on our houses , factories , and office . in one of the darkest hours of the roman empire ’s demise , benedict issued a stirring calling for tolerance and piety to renew a sense of community in the face of nihilism and barbarity .
in the united states , right-wing extremists have been carrying out far more attacks than islamists . according to the 2018 world terrorism index , the death toll from terrorist attacks linked to far-right groups or individuals has risen steadily since 2014 . this fits into a broader trend , in which attacks by perpetrators of muslim backgrounds are instantly categorized as “ acts of terror ” and addressed in a well-resourced and systemic manner , with violent attacks perpetrated in the name of other would-be ideologies being treated like a “ isolated incident . ” but there is nothing isolated about such incidents , either . the attack in christchurch drew a direct inspiration from the 2011 far-right terrorist attack in norway , of which i am one of the few fortunate survivors .
the intellectual leadership provided by frenchmen like jean monnet and robert schuman as the founding fathers of the european project is a fading memory , because germany has yet to generate a comparably robust strategy for reviving eu prospects and popularity . the fruits of the franco-german partnership have included the european single currency . after its birth in 1999 , germany ’s government , by redirecting from bonn to berlin , contented itself once more with a lower european profile . that modest , unassuming role belongs firmly to the past , though german power remained aligned with imagination . indisputably the strongest and most dependable of the eu ’s 28 member countries , it lacks a vision on where beleaguered europe should be headed .
in fact , meeting the challenge of restructuring china ’s economy away from exports and resource-intensive goods requires stimulating consumption . while the rest of the world struggles to raise saving , china – with its saving rate exceeding 40 % – struggles to get its people to consume more . providing better social services ( public health care , education , and nation-wide retirement programs ) would minimize the need for “ precautionary ” saving . china was engaged in what might be called the vendor form finance , ” ” ” ” ” providing the money that helps finance america ’s vast fiscal and trade deficits , allowing american voters to purchase more of their goods than it sells . but this is an odd arrangement : a relatively poor country helps to finance america ’s war on iraq , just as a massive tax cut for the world ’s richest people , while vast spending at home imply ample room for expansion of both consumption and investment .
sales of five-rupee sachets of shampoo to impoverished consumers are viewed as clever marketing , but lending of 5,000 rupees to a high-interest peasant at high interest rates is viewed as exploitative . both activities , after all , are funded by investors seeking returns on their capital and motivated more by profit than by compassion . but one is obviously less socially acceptable today than the latter . a very high salary earned by the cosmetics or soft-drink manufacturer attracts no attention ; one paid to the ceo of a company thriving on lending to the poor seems unsuited to them , if not immoral . yet pmfis have succeeded by meeting their genuine need .
berkeley – advances in artificial intelligence and robotics are fueling a new wave of advances in automation , with machines matching or out-performing humans in a fast-growing range of tasks , including some requiring complex cognitive capacities and advanced degrees . this process outpaced expert expectations ; not surprisingly , its potential adverse impacts on both the quantity and quality of employment have raised serious concerns . to listen to us president donald trump ’s administration , one might think that trade remains the primary reason for the loss of manufacturing jobs in the united states . trump ’s treasury secretary , steven mnuchin , has declared that workers ’ possible technological displacement is “ not even on [ the us administration ’s ] radar screen ” ” ” ” ” ” ” . among economists , however , the consensus nowadays is that some 80 % losses in america ’s manufacturing jobs over the past three decades were attributable to labor-saving and productivity-enhancing technological change , with trade approaching a distant second .
berkeley – back in the late 1980 ’s , japan seemingly could do no mistake in economists ’ eyes . they saw an obvious edge in japan ’s competitiveness relative to the north atlantic across a wide range of high-tech accuracy and mass-producing labor-intensive industries like manufacturing tradable goods . they also saw an economy that , since reconstruction began after world war ii , greatly outperformed the predicted growth of europe ’s economies . and they saw an economy grow greatly faster than the north atlantic economies had when they possessed the same absolute , relative economy-wide levels of productivity . the safe bet in the late 1980 ’s appeared to believe that mechanization , computerization , and robotization would continue .
amos oz , one of israel ’s best known writers , argues that the current palestinian-israeli war really means two wars : the “ unjust ” war against israel and the jews to establish a fundamentalist islamic state in an “ arab palestine , ” and the palestinian people ’s “ just ” war for an independent state worthy of the name . conversely , israel fights two wars : simply a war to defend its right to exist ; embraced in its own integrity and security in the middle east ; and an unfair and futile war to perpetuate its occupation of the west bank and gaza strip and jewish settlements located there . israeli state support for expanding settlements is substantial . there are roughly 220,000 israeli settlers in the west bank and gaza excluding roughly 190,000 people live in jerusalem ’s neighborhoods , extending beyond the pre-1967 borders of the ancient , divided jerusalem . despite the intifada , the number of settlers has decreased in just a few months of 144 settlements , and over 7,000 settlers in gaza strip alone , in 16 communities occupying 20 % of impoverished lands already suffering one of the world ’s highest population .
meanwhile , financial fragmentation within the eurozone continues ; spain and , to a lesser extent , italy suffers a seemingly irresistible rise in borrowing costs ; and the political strains grow more equitably . contrary to some perceptions , europeans have not been left inactive in every year during the last year . the market ’s reaction has been to send spanish government bond rates an even higher share of gdp . but , as a result , they have been losing their touch with each other . like aging headlines , they continue to attempt tricks to impress upon , but that fail to deliver results , or , worse , to prove counterproductive .
with asia riven by territorial disputes and historical tensions , retaining a steady security balance will be no easy feat . but the levers here lie in place that could help . in the 1990s , when us president bill clinton ’s administration debated how to respond to china ’s rising economic might , some urged containment policy . clinton rejected that advice : to forge an anti-china alliance would have been impossible , given china ’s neighbors ’ enduring desire to maintain good relations with it ; more important , such a policy would have guaranteed future enmity with china . instead , clinton chose a policy that could be construed as much “ integrated and insure . ”
the image of an irresistible populist “ wave ” ” wave ” was always misleading . but that identity – and how its adherents frame their own interests – could change again . farage has not brought about brexit all by itself . for example , no doubt trump has succeeded in convincing some americans to see themselves as part of something like a white identity movement . interests and identities are formed dynamically as politicians make offer of both representation and citizenry responding .
the resulting opportunities to expand beyond traditional product markets will enable pharmaceutical firms to evolve into companies offering multiple health-care solutions . these will include not only prescription medicines , but also diagnostics , branded generics , and technologies that promote personalized medicine , as well as so-called neutraceuticals ” and other “ wellness options . ” in facilitating interactions across their networks , they will help to spur the development of innovation ecosystems . though the scale of many r & d organizations is bound to halve such reforms , the governance complexities and maximizing the impact of this externality of relationships will challenge new skills and capabilities over and above those of excellent science . developing and rewarding employees who possess such skills will be the additional , but welcome , challenge .
the point is not “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ to reach the consensus ” about which model is right , ” as romer puts it , but to establish which model applies best in a given setting . and doing that will always remain artisans rather than science , especially when choices have to be made in the real world . economics is not the kind of science in which there could ever be one true model that works best in all contexts . the social world distinguishes ” from the physical world , because it is man-made and therefore almost infinitely malleable . so , unlike in the natural sciences , economics advances them scientifically not by replacing the old , but by expanding its model ’s role in society , each shedding light on another social contingency .
equally important , indian workers – particularly their young people – need opportunities to upgrade their skills continuously . india ’s structural transformation and sustainable growth will hinge on its efforts to build a flexible , labor-intensive manufacturing sector , centered on easing obsolete and more complicated job laws . legal protections for india ’s formal sector far exceed those in most advanced countries , as well as in china , with mandated requirements rising as the number of personnel rises . as jagdish bhagwati and arvind panagariya have pointed out , excessive labor-market regulations are discouraging indian entrepreneurs from rewarding unskilled workers and developing labor-intensive manufacturing , which means that india ’s government should redouble its reform efforts in this area . today , the agriculture sector accounts for only a third of china ’s total employment , compared to its less than one-half in india .
taken together , this holistic approach is something new for china . despite considerable political uncertainty in a number of countries in latin america , governments in the region seem keen to meet china ’s reform efforts with change of its own . brazil ’s government , for example , has promoted a program of “ investment partnerships ” ” ” ” ” to coordinate investments in the finance and transportation infrastructure sectors . new policies explicitly encourage chinese firms to work with local firms in sectors like logistics , electric power , and information systems , thereby fostering interaction among the business , community , and government leaders . equally important , the policies also expand the availability of chinese financing , credit , and insurance to investors .
from this perspective , there is good reason for optimism , especially in view of the accelerated growth of china ’s service sector – one of the key building blocks of consumer-led rebalancing . in the end , of course , gdp ’s composition will provide the high test of whether china has succeeded . but the key word here is “ “ ” in the end . for now , exploring trends in the potential determinants of chinese consumption is far more important . it is far too early to expect major shifts in major sources of aggregate demand .
to be sure , the presidency grants trump considerable power to shape us trade policy , so one can not ignore the possibility of pursuing protectionist measures to appease his supporters . but , ultimately , there is no broad-based support within the us for a return to closed borders . europe , meanwhile , has been moving in the opposite direction . many europeans view trade as an opportunity rather than a job-threatened ; and even europe ’s staunchest anti-globalizers are showing little appetite for more protectionism . european multinational corporations also hold large stakes in the chinese economy , with eu manufacturing exports to china and other emerging markets now nearly double what america does .
at the time he took the job , manafort was indebted to the russian oligarch oleg deripaska , an aluminum tycoon close to president vladimir putin ’s administration , to the tune of $ 19 million . manafort also offered to brief deripaska about what was going on in the trump campaign . deripaska , who is subject to american sanctions , had previously maintained a $ 10 million annual deal with manafort . like the other russian oligarchs , deripaska is not known to deal gently with the people who displease him . after taking the job , manafort emailed a ukraine-based employee , “ how are we to use [ that ] to come of their life ? ”
kyiv – from snowy in kyiv , i have watched successful revolutions in cairo and tunis with glee and admiration . but , like someone who led a peaceful revolution , i hope that pride is tempered by pragmatism , because regime change is but the first step in establishing a besieged democracy backed by the rule of law . indeed , like my homeland , ukraine , is now demonstrating , following the path of revolutionary euphoria and the return of normality , democratic revolutions can be betrayed and reversed . the first lesson of ukraine for the egyptian and tunisian democrats is that elections will not make democracy . egyptians and tunisians are right to feel proud of their desire to overthrow despotic governments peacefully .
above all , biometrics can protect against theft of our identities on our own . that is the argument behind the world ’s largest biometrics project , a multimodal solution ( iris , fingerprinting , to confront ) affecting more than one billion indians . nandan nilekani , the chairman of infosys , who left his work to develop a system known as aadhaar , continues to save india ’s government roughly $ 9 billion by eliminating duplicating and making false identity in its government beneficiary lists . increasingly , we use our fingerprints or our face to unlock our smartphones , pay for shopping , and board airplanes . guarding against theft is obvious : what uses are a phone , a car , or a ticket that operates only for its legitimate owner ?
pittsburgh – almost six months ago , at a time of great alarm about the global financial and economic crisis , g-20 leaders met for a historic summit in london . their collective commitments to stimulate , regulate , and restructure global economic activities helped calm nerves around the world . and many of the problems that spurred the london summit remain real . anxieties levels may have come down , in portfolios , and stock markets , but the daily drama for survival continues . the un and world bank predict that , over time , the direct and indirect effects of an economic meltdown will be felt in the developing world .
were we to come up with the appearance of someone with intimate knowledge of the catastrophes yet to arrive ? or was she just one of the outstanding girl in the party at the time , the avid adolescent seeking to dance and then held on tightly ? now , the world is collectively writing a new novel , and yet more easily . the first includes the sovereign people who poured into the streets of every large city in the country with the knowledge content of its behavior that comes with having a total vote , not trump , who won an election . roth , skillfully distilled the tragic and the comic elements of the process , with us talked about forces that might one day rise to a dark tide of vulgarity and violence under trump .
and it is not as though congressional republicans think that they owe enough chants to him to swing a single vote in either chamber of the us legislature . maybe simpson has had a change of heart ; that is , a reson of heart . even in that case , however , naming those who misbehave to important positions of high trust and acclaim them as bipartisan statesmen give the next generation truly lousy incentives . perhaps he traveled his own path to damascus , come face-to-face with what he and to whom he was , repented , and wanted to correct some of america ’s damage and its long-run economic-growth prospects as he came . obama officials reassured me that simpson had , indeed , changed heart ; that she was clever men with a ingenious understanding of issues ; that she could sway reporters and get them to describe the commission ’s advice as “ bipartisan ” ( even though it could not sway actual legislators ) ; and that she was a genuine asset to the substantive work of the commission .
what demographers call the total birth rate , after all , is the average rate of living per woman above her lifetime . the oecd average is up in about 1.74 , yet some countries , including germany and japan , generate fewer than 1.4 children per woman . in the longer term , what makes the population said is stable if the tfr comes at a replacement rate that averages just above 2.3 for the world as a whole and somewhat lower , at 2.1 for advanced countries , reflecting their lower infant-mortality rates . the tfr for most developed countries now stands well below replacement levels . yet the largest tfr declines in recent years have been in developing countries .
contrary to the simplistic view that regulation becomes inevitably bad for business , in reality has three important channels , through which regulation can actually benefit an economy . one is the market-making and market-growing role illustrated by the standard of gsm . the global reach of regulation implied gigantic economies of scale in eating handsets and network hardware , which is why prices have fallen rapidly , making interoperability among networks and across countries far easier to achieve . numerous regulations are playing this standard-setting role . by 2004 , more than one billion subscribers were to gsm services globally .
laguna beach – when i consider the prospects for the global economy and markets , i am taken aback by the extent to which the world collectively places a massive bet on three fundamental outcomes : a shift toward a materially higher , more inclusive global growth , avoidance of policy mistakes , and avoidance of market accidents . while all three outcomes are undoubtedly desirable , the unfortunate reality is that they are far from certain – that bets on them without some hedging could prove exceedingly risky for current and future generations . the first component of betting – a more inclusive global growth rate – anticipates continued economic recovery in the united states , with a 3 % growth rate this year bolstered by robust wage growth . it also presupposes china ’s annual gdp growth rate of 6.5-7 % , thus enabling the risks posed by pockets of excessive leverage in the shadow-banking system to constrain consumption gradually , even as the economy ’s engines of growth continue to shift away from exports and public capital spending toward domestic consumption and private investment . another , more uncertain assumption underpinning the bets on more inclusive growth is that europe and japan will be able to escape a low-growth mire of low-growth and avoid deflation that , by impelling households and firms to postpone purchasing choices , will undermine already weak economic performance .
many worried that impeachment by clinton would damage the us presidency , but his principal effect on presidential power was precisely the opposite . in the end , republicans acquiesced in the democrats ’ charge that the debacle lay with kenneth starr , an independent attorney whose investigations of the house of clinton ’s real-estate dealings early at the end of his term at the end of which him took him to lewinsky . the two parties allowed the democratic attorney ’s statute to lapse , freeing the presidency from a potent form of oversight , much to trump ’s benefit a generation later . clinton ’s popularity rose after the impeachment proceedings stopped . a majority of americans believed that impeachment was a mistake .
though establishment parties have been criticized by the eu , for the most part , they have not lost sight of the benefits of membership . indeed , in the uk ’s june referendum , both major parties backed the brexit campaign , even though they were internally split . to be sure , establishment leaders have long sought to salvage their own skins by lumping their criticism of the eu , blaming it for demanding that national governments pursue unpopular or failing policies . but that merely put ideas for alternative policies out of reach , while causing electorates to direct their opposition to the eu on its own . most recently , in may 2015 , huge numbers of traditional labour voters deserted their party into voting for the uk independence party ( ukip ) , at the forefront of the brexit campaign .
and other emerging economies are not likely to pick up the slack . to cap it all off , expansionary monetary policies , adopted by the major economies , are fueling instability . brazil , touted as an “ emerging aid player in 2010 , ” is now mired in an economic and political crisis , as is south africa . weakening developing-economy incomes further is a global demand slowdown and commodities crash , a response that , as nobel laureate angus deaton has shown , was catastrophic for much of the developing world . for developing countries , these challenges are compounding the problem by new financing rules in advanced-country economies that are hampering investment flows and financing toward the developing world .
pakistan has a major nuclear-weapons program , and is facing an expansionist jihadi insurgency that has previously attacked military outposts suspected of housing nuclear assets . while pakistan has not experienced a nuclear breach and the us government insists that safeguards remain robust , the country – ’s increasingly frequent and severe laboratory of instability – raise serious questions about its future . while north korea ’s nuclear arsenal is far smaller , persistent doubts about the regime ’s sustainability make the issue of grave concern . in the event of a regime collapse , a distinct possibility , preventing the diversion of its assets would be difficult , or even reliance on its weapons . for its part , iran seems relatively stable , at least relative to its neighbors .
but global momentum to tackle climate change can and must be sustained . those powers should make it clear that they will not re-impose sanctions , and that any us effort to impose its will through extraterritorial measures – say , by using their access to the dollar clearing systems as a foreign-policy tool – will be resisted through coordinated action . for the uk , especially the us , this may require a willingness to disagree head-on with america ’s foreign policy in ways that some devotees of our own “ special relationship ” will find uncomfortable . with regard to climate change , the election of a man who purport to believe that global warming is a chinese hoax created to damage american business is manifestly bad news . but this was not a us-iran agreement ; it was negotiated with six leading powers , and endorsed by the un .
paradoxically , in a pessimistic scenario , iran ’s new government , ruled by conservatives and hardliners , actually fits the region better than the incumbent . after all , saudi arabia , egypt , and many other arab states , too , are ruled by arab authoritarian hardliners , with little inclination to engage in de-escalation regional conflicts . this would make a resurgence of reform-minded leadership in iran extremely difficult . to be sure , the most likely scenario involves a combination of both dynamics . but , taken together , it is in everyone ’s interest to ensure that the developments hew more closely on the reform-oriented path , all that the diplomatic work with respect to iran is far from complete .
in the aftermath of lehman brothers ’ collapse in september 2008 , italy ’s then-president , giulio tremonti , famously endorsed the well-being of the country ’s banking system . as a result , a major recapitalization of italian banks , and the creation of a “ bad bank ” to absorb the npls , were viewed as unnecessary . ten years later , italy is no longer that imagined land of a prosperous bank and happy savers . an implicit pact between the bank and the savers broke out at the end of 2015 , when four troubled local banks bailed in and shareholders took the hit . a prolonged recession and economic malaise has dented the individual saving rate , while banks no longer have the resources to provide peace to many retail investors whose trust has been severely eroded .
kwasniewski 's strategy of seduction appealed to large numbers of both the young and the middle class , but most of all to peasants , the unemployed and those left behind by poland 's rising economy . this correlation will dog kwasniewski 's presidency . many poles remain wary of churn 's equivocal attitude towards democracy and are allergic to his aggressive presence in politics . so the guy who has spoken out extensively about the future riding in power saddled himself on the votes of the past . it is a sad paradox , indeed , that for many ex-communists , in opposing the church , pose as defenders of liberal democratic values that they once persecuted with unremitting reformist zeal .
a consensus has now been reached on the need to assist the smallholders , but the obstacles remain . perhaps the main risk is that the organization of aid bureaucracies now trip over each other to try to get the hands of the $ 20 billion in order to get the big meetings , expert consultations , overhead , reports , and further meetings . if donor governments truly want results , they should take the money out of the hands of 30 or more separate aid bureaucracies and pool it in one or two locations , the most logical being the world bank in washington , and the international monetary fund for agricultural development ( ifad ) in rome . one or both of these un agencies would then have an account of several billion dollars . “ partnerships ” of donors can become the expensive end in themselves , only delaying genuine action .
after all , by and large , the brics economies are probably the most important sources of future global growth . at its new delhi summit , brics leaders will discuss creating joint institutions , particularly a common development bank , capable of helping to mobilize savings among countries . currently , the brics countries constitute a loosening , informal bloc . the brics may , indeed , be dubbed r-5 , after its members ’ currencies – the real , ruble , rupee , the renminbi , and rand . they constitute more than one-quarter of the earth ’s landmass , more than 41 % of its gdp , nearly 25 % of world gdp , and almost half of all foreign-exchange and gold reserves .
between now and may , cameron needs to convince voters that the british economy will continue to perform strongly , fueling a rise in real incomes . as a result , many resent welfare recipients and fear competition for jobs , a sentiment fueling the rise of populist , anti-eu , and anti-immigrant parties across europe . on the contrary , he needs to change the conversation in order to reassure voters that their economic future is bright . as it stands , britons , like their european counterparts , feel over-taxed to spooked public services that continue to be slashed , and are angry that their incomes have been falling for the past five years . a key difference in the uk is that ukip gains ground with voters , despite rapid economic growth ( over 3 % annually , the eu ’s highest rate ) .
it is subject to what milton friedman called “ long and variable ” lags . thus , policies aimed at boosting employment by the end of , say , this calendar year had to be introduced about a year ago to have their full effect . others , like the united states , did not , and so do the unemployment rate , which remains at around 10 % . this is not to say that the obama administration has not tried to boost employment . some countries – china , for example – have done , indeed implementing such job-creation policies a year ago , and are already seeing the benefits .
for more advanced goods , the eu ’s value added ( where the intangible parts of its manufacturing process are in europe ) is rather steep . imposing trade defenses against such goods , while legally warranted , are probably just creating problems for more globalized european companies . but , even if the actions work as intended , most trade defense measures are probably not directed against anti-competitive business practices . sectors with higher human capital content – electronic consumer goods , for example – have far higher r & d costs than the shoe sector , which firms onto the assembly lines in a low-cost country are probably not very expensive when compared to r & d and other intangible costs . many have declared that these problems cause the price to fall for ensuring that firms do not engage in anti-competitive behavior or receive trade-distorting subsidies .
motivating corporations to do the right thing is an even bigger obstacle . america ’s legal system is confident that firms generating a defective and , especially , unsafe product , are holding liable for the consequences . similarly , environmental law forces firms liable for their toxic wastes , and numerous countries , including america ’s , have enshrined the principle that “ polluters pay , ” which is that companies have to pay back the harm that they cause . firms are at a far better position than consumers to assess the safety of their product ; all have benefited knowing that our legal system has given corporations an incentive to heed the safety of what they produce . after all , corporations have no conscience ; it is only the conscience of those who run companies ; and , because america ’s recent corporate scandals have made all too clear , conscience often takes their backseat to profits .
the case for acting on a massive scale to tackle climate change has been made in europe , and even in china . why has there been so little , if any , debate taken place now ? we do not have to look far for such an mission , either . is this because those who oppose such discussions reject climate-change science ? or do they deny a science , because accepting it would legitimize an economically activist state ?
once again , irish voters are poised to vote yes or no to the treaty of nice . enlargement is the most important item on the european agenda , and the treaty of nice is its cornerstone . all the while , forgotten by what that treaty is all about , is that ? well , it is one of those all-too-frequent late-night compromises reached by eu heads of state and government that are searching for slither and by for some practical problems , while postponing others . the compromise reached in july four years ago is important because it includes , among other provisions , all the technicalities of voting balances and power sharing among eu institutions that must be firmly in place before the union can admit new members .
with the proverbial asset ( and embarrassment ! ! ) of hindsight , it is clear that the growth patterns that emerged over the last half-century had little understood and rarely ( if ever ) to predict by economists . a key point here is not just that economists got so much wrong , but that almost nobody got things right . at the very moment in the 1960s , when asia ’s tiger economies were starting to take off , for example , the nobel laureate gunnar myrdal wrote his asian drama to diagnose the causes of asian poverty and explain why its poverty appeared to be ineradicable . simultaneous pursuit of this is a strong consensus among economists and policymakers that has favored import-substitution policies then pursued by countries including india , argentina , brazil , egypt , and turkey . after they beggaring their adherents , these policies are now utterly discredited .
on january 28 , a peaceful but unauthorized ” showing by opposition parties was brutally repressed by the police , and three of the presidential candidates were arrested for the day . just two weeks ago , there were almost everyday debates about the chances of a presidential election being postponed indefinitely . only 64 % of citizens who registered had won their voting cards , compared to one million for two years . yet wade has postponed legislative elections periodically scheduled for june 2006 , first to february 2007 , and later by a presidential conviction in june 2007 . now comes a presidential election , but will be fair ?
princeton , the nj – the intersection of genetics and intelligence lies an intellectual minefield . harvard ’s former president larry summers touched upon one explosion in 2005 , when he tentatively suggested a “ genetic explanation ” for the difficulty that his university had , in recruiting female professors in math and physics . now one of our time ’s most eminent researchers has blundered much more clumsily into the same minefield , with predictable results . ( he suggested not to suggest that men hold more talented in these fields than women , but that there is some reason for believing that men are more likely than women to find at both the top and lower ends of the skill spectrum in those fields – and harvard , of course , only to appoints people at the lower end of the day . ) in october , james watson , who shared the 1962 nobel prize covering his description of dna structure , passed in london to promote his memoir , avoid dull people , and other lessons from lived in science .
mugabe ’s first visit to china in 1980 , just six months after independence ; he made 13 more during his years in office , and high-level visits by other zimbabwean officials have been even more frequent , occurring roughly once every two years during mugabe ’s rule . by contrast , kenyan presidents traveled to china just six-fold over the same period , most recently during may 2017 . indeed , state visits to the other direction have been further uneven . china ’s current president , xi jinping , visited zimbabwe in 2015 . zimbabwe ’s leaders made the most of their visits to the press for trade and military cooperation , and probably engaged directly with private chinese firms .
geneva – the world ’s refugee crisis is most often measured in numbers . of the 17.2 million people that the united nations high commissioner for refugees ( the un refugee agency ) responsibility for protecting , roughly half are below the age of 18 , which means that an entire generation of young people , already robbed of their childhood childhood , could lose out on a future once again . yet , for young refugees missing out on schooling , the crisis can also be tracked on an irreversible metric : the passage of time . in late 2016 , an estimated 11.6 million refugees experienced “ protracted displacement ” : having been out of their homes for more than five years , and having no immediate prospects ” ” of return . school-age children constitute a major share of the world ’s displaced population .
but how serious are these policy-induced crimes to which greenspan now brought to the verdict ? in my view , too , they are misdemeanors , and we need to prove right ? against them , one must set up what former treasury secretary larry summers calls greenspan ’s own “ golden gauntlet of management at avoiding and minimizing recessions during his years in the fed . ” the “ felonies ” of which greenspan stands accused are the following two charges : that he was supposed to do more to backstop the late 1990 ’s stock market bubble , and that he was supposed to do more to stem the housing bubble of the early 2000 ’s . here , greenspan holds his ground , and he leads no culprits .
to activists of good faith who may have been taken over by duplicitous representations of the movement , i would say only that it is far too many noble causes in need of aid to enable oneself to be enlisted on a dubious basis . those worthy causes include fighting the jihadist decapitators , saving the women and girls enslaved by boko haram ; defending the middle east ’s imperiled christians and arab democrats ; and , most obviously , vying for just peace between israelis and the palestinians . the truth is that the sdgs are nothing more than a sinister caricature of anti-totalitarian and anti-apartheid struggle . it is a campaign whose instigators have no aim other than to discriminate against , de-legitimize , and vilify an israel that , in their mind , has never stopped wearing their yellow star . and it is preferable to recognize that history is headed for the time being if we really wish to avoid repeating its ugliest scenes .
indeed , the 2012 nobel prize in medicine was awarded to john gurdon and shinya yamanaka , for revolutionizing scientists ’ understanding of how cells develop by reprogrammatic and cells without altering their genetic structure . over four decades later , in 2006 , yamanaka discovered ways to trick the complex adult cells in mice into their regressing into its immature state , shaped by stem cells . prior to this , stem cells – which may potentially reprogrammed to develop into replacements for lost or corrupted tissue – might be capable of being able only from early-stage embryos , a practice that has fueled ethical controversy . in 1962 , gurdon search that nearly any cell in the body contains the complete code of dna enabled him to develop the tadpole by cloning an subcontinent . it is far too soon to discount genetics , however , because the sciences of “ epigenetics ” – the study of mechanisms for converting genes on and off , thereby altering how a cell develops without altering its genetic code – gain traction .
the crisis in the mediterranean can not be piecemeal . the financial costs of patching its waters , and of rescuing those adrift , are exorbitant . the losses of lives are inexcusable , carrying out the prospect of a loss of lives . but we need not wait until the root causes of displacement – state failure and civil war – are addressed . assertions could be prioritized and processed fairly regularly , and the refugees could arrive in europe healthy and ready to work or study .
that is roughly the same type of divide that existed between america and japan in 1951 , singapore in 1967 , taiwan in 1975 , and south korea in 1977 – four economies that are also ranked among the more than 13 successful economies studied by the growth commission . harnessing their latecomer ’s advantage , japan ’s average annual gdp growth rate has soared to 9.2 % over the subsequent 20 years , versus 8.6 % in singapore , 8.3 % in taiwan , and 7.6 % in south korea . to realize its potential growth as a latecomer , it is that china needs , first and foremost , to deepen its market-oriented reforms , address its different structural problems , and develop its economy according to its comparative advantage . according to a novicarier estimate by the late economic historian angus maddison , china ’s per capita gdp in 2008 stood at $ 6,725 in 1990 , equal to 21 % of per capita gdp in the united states . if the latecomer ’s advantage implied by the “ four nies ” income gap enabled america ’s nies to realize average annual gdp growth rates of 7.6 % -9.2 % for 20 years , china ’s annual growth potential should be equivalent to a similar 8 % for 2008-2028 .
the signatories agreed to pool biological diversity , by saving species and their habitats , and deploying biological resources ( such as forests ) sustainably . the treaty ’s signatories went further in 2002 , committing themselves to “ substantially reduction ” of the current pace of loss of earth ’s surface by 2010 . unfortunately , like so many other international agreements , the un convention on biological diversity remains fundamentally unknown , un-championed , and unfulfilled . that continued neglect is a human tragedy ; it is only a threat to the world ’s natural history ; it is part of the world ’s human history . for extremely low monetary outlay – and perhaps none at all on the balance – we could confound nature and , in turn , safeguard the basis of our own lives and livelihoods .
netanyahu also knows that the arab side ’s setbacks have nurtured radical zionism . it remains to be seen whether abysmally dysfunctional the arab world , and powerful non-state agents are in its midst , such as hamas and hezbollah , will react the way that obama expects . it is because netanyahu is fueled by almost messianic determination to stop iran from acquiring the means to destroy israel ; that might be amenable to a fundamental change in his position on palestine , provided obama makes the visible headway in his drive to halt iran ’s nuclear program . in netanyahu ’s view , solving the palestinian problem would not remove the iranian challenge ; rather , it is the neutralization of that existential threat that goes the route to creating a palestinian state . as john kerry , the chairman of america ’s senate foreign affairs committee , put it , “ this peace process is n’t the one way of street ” at which the onus is put solely on israel .
just as the imemo economists predicted , most ( 66 % ) of those who responded to that question in moscow thought that it was unjust . but there was no surprise : new york yielded virtually identical results ( 68 % thought it was rather unfair ) . so , last year , we decided to see whether the same level of similarity between moscow and new york persists today , or whether , given the revival of authoritarianism in russia today , attitudes toward markets became more adverse . we administered the identical questionnaire in both cities in the us in 2015 . we presented the results at the american economic association ’s annual meeting this january .
in the former version , interest rates converge and implicit risks are nil , because , with the ecb backstopping its members ’ liabilities , as the us federal reserve does in the american case , a european becomes a local currency . like a dysfunctional family , the northern “ advanced ” countries ponder whether or not to bail out the southern , as the “ emerging ” economies have done . and how often are we to hear about sovereign-currency restructurings of local-currency debt ? prognoses on a single case vary starkly different . in the latter version of the eurozone , there is differential credit risk and , ultimately , bank runs , de-euroization , and default : the common currency comes at odds with member countries ’ needs .
republican obstructionism in the senate also put other levels of the federal judiciary at risk . during president barack obama ’s second term in office , the rate at which vacancies in america ’s entire district and circuit breakers were filled within 50 years . as a result , republicans have a good chance of forming a conservative majority on the nine-member supreme court that could hold back for decades , especially if they win the presidency again in march 2020 . that majority may erode the democratic checks , such as campaign-finance limits , which had been dealt a devastating blow to the 2010 citizens united decision . in a 5-4 majority , the court ruled that corporations are “ associations of individuals , ” and , thus , that any limits on the size of money corporations could be spent on political campaigns violated their first amendment right to freedom of expression .
lopez obrador and his supporters may be expected to work relentlessly to thwart his plans . but they are unlikely to derail his rule any time soon . whatever the potential for a leftward shift this year in some latin american countries , others , including mexico , chile , and brazil , are clearly less vulnerable to the kind of populist rule that we have seen in venezuela and bolivia . calderon ’s challenge will not be easy ; it will turn out to be left behind . the underlying stability highlighted by mexico ’s post-election crisis is also apparent elsewhere in latin america .
there is still time to react , by showing strong leadership and prioritizing growth over short-sighted policies , but shorting the time and the clock is ticking . it is here that political leaders should devote the effort of this time to take action . no one wants the eu to fail because of its citizens ’ disaffection . next year will be crucial , because it marks the end of the current political cycle , and the beginning of a fourth one . a new german government , european parliamentary elections , and next year will follow a new european commission president later this year .
colombo – as china ’s economy slows and growth in the developed world remains anemic , governments across asia are working to keep their economies on an upward trajectories . in sri lanka , where i am prime minister , the challenge is to find a path to accelerating our already steady economic growth . in sri lanka , where i am prime minister , the challenge now is to find a path to accelerating our already robust pattern of economic growth . today , we asians are witnessing , on a nearly daily basis , violent political assault on instruments and policies that have helped to lift hundreds of millions of our citizens out of poverty . one thing is clear : we can not expect the rest of the world to welcome us economic ambitions the way it once opened its arms to china ’s rapid rise as an economic power , or – in earlier decades – cheered on the growth of japan and the so-called asian tigers , including south korea .
more than 100 followers of ayad allawi , al sadr and others , have joined their ranks . this supra-sectarian platform calls for the central government ’s role in iraq ’s natural resources , delaying the looming referendum to settle the status of kirkuk . the change within the country ’s government also seems noteworthy . here is where sunni-shiite cooperation comes in . widely unnoticed , iraq ’s sunni and shia centralists have managed over the past few months to form a united states-led parliamentary platform that will leave sectarian tensions behind .
so the truth must lie elsewhere : the french are not hopeless in politics ; they simply wait for a genuine leader . yes , the french are incorrigible lovers of the welfare state . the french still expect more things from their rule than from an integrated european or boundless world . as matters stand , a case can be made that a french will never come to believe that the state lacks power , globalization , or , indeed , globalization . political fervor , it seems , has not vanished in rousseau and danton ’s landscape .
london – next week , governments will gather in warsaw , poland , for a crucial round of climate negotiations with both expectations and ambitions running at an all-time low . the warsaw talks amount to a staging post on the path to the 2015 united nations climate summit in paris , at which governments will seek to forge an agreement that prevents dangerous climate change , defined as global warming of more than two degrees celsius . failure would expose future generations to catastrophic climate risks , while infecting millions of people in poverty as a result of increasingly frequent , intense , and protracted droughts , floods , and storms . what basic carbon arithmetic illustrates is the scale of this problem ; it is the only way to address it . but it does n’t have to be this way : the warsaw meeting provides an opportunity to galvanize action on one of the most potent forces driving climate change , the billions of dollars spent by governments on fossil-fuel subsidies .
in a march 2015 letter to the g20 , a group of researchers , environmentalists , and opinion leaders warned that ramping up investment in megaprojects risks irreversible and environmental damage . “ every year , we are already consuming around one one-and-a-half of planets to resource worth , ” ” the authors explained . similarly , the intergovernmental panel on climate change ’s cautions that countries ’ infrastructure development and long-time affluent products that lock societies into gas-intensive pathways can be hard or extremely expensive to alter . and , indeed , the g20 has embedded few social , environmental , or climate-related criteria to a forthcoming wish list ” of the mega-projects that each member country will submit to its summit in turkey in november . what is needed is infrastructure choices that are meant to alleviate , rather than exacerbating , this situation .
the fed , for example , has pledged to keep interest rates low at least until the us unemployment rate falls to 6.5 % – a move that has arguably narrowed the cost of long-term borrowing . likewise , mark carney , in his first policy actions as governor of the bank of england , has announced forward guidance for short-term interest rates . perhaps the most telling of the central bank ’s recent example , using forward guidance effectively , was european central bank president mario draghi ’s july 2012 announcement that the ecb would do “ whatever it takes ” to ensure the euro ’s survival . that pledge alone stabilized borrowing costs and dramatically reduced interest-rate spreads for struggling eurozone countries . while the effect of such interest-rate policy on the economy can not be fixed without the additional data appears to be in its own favor .
indeed , just the opposite response is likely – efforts to tighten sanctions still further . first , the us should consider establishing us diplomatic relations with iran and placing diplomats on the ground . this would not be an easy process , and could well meet considerable iranian opposition . but iranians do have diplomatic relations with other members of their principal interlocutor in the talks on its nuclear program , the sanctions-minded p-5 +1 group ( china , france , germany , russia , the united kingdom , and the us ) , and the revitalization of iran-us diplomatic ties would shorten lines of communication and close the 444-day chapter of 1979-1981 . yet , just when america adopted a “ bomb ” and talk show an approach to dealing with serbs during the dénouement of the bosnian war , america must be willing to lift sanctions and discuss ” when it comes to iran , thereby creating more room for an eventual diplomatic strategy .
anyone watching the ipl nonetheless might be tempted to conclude that twenty20 cricket , the “ instant ” form of games – in fact , makes the american game intentionally rediscovered by indians . to keen observers , the ipl more than the sports league ; it signaled nothing short of a new india . in the frenchmen ’ glitz , glamour , and excess lay an antidote to the hidebound statist mentality that has shaped india ’s economic stagnation in the past . here was a venture that opened up new vistas for business , and fired young people ’s fantasies to emulate entrepreneurial energies shown by owners , promoters , players , and supporters . other countries followed suit , with tournaments modeled on the ipl springing world ’s cricketing world .
at the 20th century 's closing , romania ( like bulgaria , russia , ukraine , and other heavily sovietized societies ) looks more like a " neo-feudal " state than a modern society . at a whim of the state , for example , they can be exonerated in pay taxes or have their posts and worked made unchallengeable by law . this superficiality 's results from the fact that , although communism was a thoroughly `` modern '' notion , modernity in romania goes only a skin deep . for herein lies a state where groups , classes , even individuals struggle for privileges that are granted not by talent and work , but rather by the status of a group where one belongs . state banks approved public-sector entities ( trade unions , for example ) , big state enterprises , act little in romania today than feudal guilds behaved in medieval europe .
on the other hand , diplomatic means can bring the release of an israeli soldier and put a stop to hamas ’s firing of qassam rockets from gaza in israel – a daily occurrence that challenged the credibility of a new israeli government under prime minister ehud olmert . but the crucial problem is that , until now , at every historical juncture , the palestinians declined to accept a compromise and consequently a failed force in general . it was precisely this failing that brought hamas to power . in 1947 , they rejected the un partition plan , which called for the establishments of two states in british palestine . in 1993 , after the oslo agreements , the palestinian authority , established under yasir arafat , became yet another militarized authoritarian regime , very much as it was in syria and egypt , and did nothing to alleviate the suffering of palestinian refugees .
japanese elites , for example , tend to favor continuity over change . in their thinking , the hard power of the united states is more important than its soft power , and their vision of an america “ bound to lead ” is largely unchanged . otherwise , and for very different reasons , a majority of asian elites are awaiting the increasing possibility of obama ’s victory with some sort of bewilderment , and even apprehension . for them , the us is above all the strategic counterweight needed to balance china . in asia , indonesia may look “ europe ” at its obama craze , but that essentially represents an anomaly , easily explainable by obama ’s fast-bringing .
canberra – last year , north korea ’s kim jong-un and us president donald trump sowed kindergarten in each other ’s – “ rocket man is upon the suicide mission ” – trump told trump of kim ; “ mentally deranged us dotard , ” ” ” ” kim retorted , while threatening to tilt east asia to a post-atomic wasteland . now , in stunning and dramatic evolution , the two are to meet by may . kim reportedly is willing to denuclearize and eager to talk directly to trump , who has agreed . but optimism about this turning of events must be tempered with prudent realism . in part , north korea is the nuclear issue from hell ; today , it is the latest thing to satisfy the situation .
they tend to have proactive , assertive foreign policies and aspire to more than middle-power status and limited niche-style influence enjoyed by canada , sweden , or saudi arabia . south africa seeks a wider , more influential role , reinforced by its manifest standing as the regional hegemon . despite its domestic problems and the loss of global visibility that accompanied mandela ’s retirement , south africa remains perceived as an emerging power comparable in status and aspiration to , say , brazil , india , and nigeria . nepad , a new partnership for africa ’s development , an organization designed to promote decent and adequate standards of economic and political development throughout much of the continent , has found itself at the heart of such a policy . such powers seek an efficient , constructive regional role and , perhaps , global one .
indeed , turkey has never missed an opportunity to present itself as the regional broker . this year , as the american-led effort to mediate a middle eastern peace settlement began to falter , turkey picked up the task of mediator in both the israeli-palestinian conflict and the russia-israel conflict . immediately after the collapse of the soviet union , turkey proposed economic cooperation with the black sea . now , in the immediate wake of the anti-georgian crisis , turkey ’s leaders have stepped forward once again to assume a leadership role in the caucasus . it aspires to join the european union and would bring the eu into our three borderlands , even as we , too , aspire to join a single day .
indeed , throughout the region , apprehension is mounting that once foreign troops depart , afghanistan will again descend into civil war , ultimately bringing the taliban back to power . my fear is that we did not already see the eventual end of al qaeda or the taliban . like a neighboring country , india would face troubling consequences if it returned to power in afghanistan , because would iran , which will not sit by the time sectarian strife intensified and the shia become targets of a resurgent taliban . that is why “ bringing troops back home early ” has become the premier objective of western politicians engaged in the region . the west needs to get off ahead of the bloodletting begins again in earnest .
moreover , governments should guarantee insolvent banks ’ loans to nonfinancial corporations , just as private customers ’ current , fixed-term , and savings deposits by reforming nonperforming laws . and governments must respond to these banks ’ threats by declaring a willingness to let insolvent banks be judged on its own terms . a market economy needs to rest on the economic principle of profit and loss . the law that applies to all other firms as well should apply to banks . an economy with neither bankruptcies nor the rule of law that applies equally to all is no market economy .
from the perspective of international investors , banks that are “ too big to fail ” are the perfect places to park their reserves in the us , just as the sovereigns in question will remain solvent . but what , with these banks themselves , will these banks be doing with the funds ? when a similar issued in the 1970s emerged in the us ’s so-called “ recycling of oil surpluses ” ” ” – banks in western financial centers expanded loans to latin america , communist poland , and communist romania . that was not a good idea , because it led to the massive ( for now ) debt crisis of 1982 . but gross capital inflows follow from the emerging market into the emerging market , through the big banks now implicitly backed by the us and europe .
as they give way to health , despair , and death haste . the world bank calls aids off “ the foremost threat to african development . ” but transition plagues more than health crises ; signifying a deeper malaise . societies in south africa stagger from the loss of so many of their workers into aids . so , put aside the fact that these diseases are infectious and could easily spread faster , or the notion that a fortunate bear some of the moral responsibility for the well-being of the poor and ill , simply consider the economic consequences of the plagues of transition .
erdoğan ’s post-coup crackdown is far from the only source of tension between turkey and the west , particularly the eu . turkey insists that visa-free travel for turkish citizens visiting the eu , which eu governments pledged in january , should deliver on that year . yet , with turkey having so far failed to meet agreed conditions , including to re-launch its anti-terror legislation , that may not happen , an outcome made all the more likely by a coup attempt . that is why the coming months , when turkey and the eu hash out contentious issues , are so critical . but , while it would be a strategic mistake for erdoğan to enter putin ’s orbit , plenty of political leaders made ahead of them .
as long as the palestinians are oppressed and denied a nation-state , conflict will ensue . as long as the palestinians are oppressed and denied a nation-state , conflict will ensue . moreover , during netanyahu ’s recent electoral campaign , netanyahu pledged that , if reelected , he would impede the establishment of a palestinian state in the west bank by “ mastering ” around the region ’s entire region . moreover , during the recent electoral campaign , netanyahu pledged that , if reelected , he would impede the establishment of a palestinian state in the west bank by “ mastering ” whole areas . as well as knows , settlements amount to a physical roadblock standing in the path of contiguous , an independent palestinian state .
it failed to stop the money-supply channel from contracting in the early phases of the great depression . heedless of its responsibilities as an emergency lender , it allowed the banking system to crumble . given such incompetence , it is not surprising that subsequent reforms were far-reaching . but such reforms went in precisely the opposite direction from today ’s proposed changes : fewer limits on policymakers ’ discretionary power , more power to the board , and a larger role for the new york fed , all to enable the federal reserve system to react more rapidly and robustly to crisis . when financial stability hung on the equilibrium level in 1933 , the reserve-currency banks ’ failure to work prevented effective action .
were the doves nor the doves ( and everyone else ) expecting just that . were the doves really just the lucky thing ? the u.s. federal reserve board pumped up trillions of dollars into reserves , yet never had so many reserve currencies producing so little monetary expansion . pittsburgh – the wall street journal recently ran a front-page reporting that the monetary-policy “ doves , ” the fed forecasting low inflation in the united states , got the better of keynesians , ” ” ” who argued that the fed ’s monthly purchases of long-term securities , or so-called quantitative easing ( qe ) will unleash faster price growth . the report was correct but misleading because it utterly failed to mention why the u.s. has so little inflation nowadays .
reducing high-risk pregnancies , curbing unwanted pregnancies , and spacing out births have been shown to reduce maternal and child death rates . moreover , cutting the birth rate that is extremely high in many lmics would help reduce the strain on these countries ’ health-care systems by raising the costs of maternal and newborn care and immunization . by cutting rates of unwanted pregnancies , family planning is also reducing the number of deaths from unsafe abortions . the guttmacher institute estimates that fully meeting the need for contraception would prevent 600,000 newborn deaths and 500,000 infant deaths annually . it is not just good for mothers , but also good for their children .
the saudis also recoiling under a barrage of criticism of their wahhabi brand of islam , which is widely blamed for incubating extremism and inspiring terrorism . against this backdrop , the kingdom is taking its own struggle against its enemies . king salman bin abdulaziz al saud is the country ’s above-the-the-the-fray rulers , but his son , crown prince mohammad bin salman ali saud , currently wields much power . as defense minister , mohammad ’s continued saudi policy of boosting anti-assad rebels in syria in concert with turkey , while unleashing a war on pro-iranian tribesmen in yemen ( at an enormous humanitarian cost ) . meanwhile , saudi arabia ’s human-rights record – including denial of women ’s elementary rights – is under relentless scrutiny .
the answer to the first question is both yes and no . the american public is war-weary and us president donald trump ’s keen to declare the end of the longest international conflict in us history before the 2020 us presidential election . the american people ’s failure to eliminate the taliban from afghanistan , and fully rule the country ’s possibility becoming the haven of terrorists . the ongoing peace talks with the taliban , and america ’s impending reduction of america ’s military presence in the country provide a clear acknowledgement of this . at the same time , america has accomplished many of its starting core goals .
just five months ago , in london , we hosted the “ ppp days ” conference , with the support of other multilateral institutions , the g20 , and the united nations . we had plenty of specialists , some 50-50 from the public and private sectors of 30 countries , attempting to give an answer to a simple question : “ “ what is it going to double private-sector infrastructure investment in emerging markets ? ” the ebrd aims to encourage the training of a critical mass of experts from ten countries in our region , and we believe that the certificates could become as revered there as a chartered finance analyst or a co-run institute member . one useful tool in the effort is “ infrascope , ” the benchmarking index created by the economist intelligence unit that evaluates emerging-market countries ’ capacity across the asia-pacific region , latin america , africa , eastern europe , and the former soviet republics within the commonwealth of independent states to deliver sustainable ppps . emerging-market officials earning accreditation by demonstrating their expertise practically .
america ’s efforts , led by the special envoy , george mitchell , have shown clearly that the current ruling coalition in israel is incapable of doing the minimum required for peace . the obama administration has staked its reputations on acquiring israelis and palestinians to agree , at least on security and border . the obama administration has staked its reputations on acquiring israelis and palestinians to agree , at least on security and border . palestinians have complied with all israeli and international security requirements , while binyamin netanyahu ’s israeli government , which enacts lip-service to the two-state solution , has elucidate where israel ’s borders will be . meanwhile , the israeli government wants to continue building settlements in the occupied territories , in total violation of international law and minimal peace requirements detailed in a “ roadmap sponsored by the quartet ( the us , the un , the european union , and russia ) . ”
that is exactly what happened in latin america in the 1980s , when mexico ’s moratorium on external debt servicing in august 1982 sparked a region-wide sovereign-debt crisis . it became a broad-based emerging-economy crisis in august 1998 , after russia imposed a moratorium on payments by commercial banks on foreign lenders . then , contagion sets in , as increasingly risk-averse investors , particularly short-term investors from developed-country markets , start withdrawing funds from other countries in order to conceal the losses that they had incurred in the economies from which the crises originated . with this , crises spill across borders affects entire regions , or even those of the periphery of emerging economies . much the same thing occurred in east asia in the 1990s : the crises started in thailand in july 1997 with the collapse of the baht and spread quickly to other east asian countries .
but un research makes clear that if blatantly politically driven aid is excluded from consideration , the evidence points to a robust positive relationship . in fact , debt burdens are another side of the evolving dilemma . for the past decade , the joint imf-world bank heavily indebted poor countries initiative and expanded , the supplementing multilateral debt relief initiative , has made significant progress toward debt sustainability . as a result , prominent economists , including a senior staff member at the international monetary fund , have become increasingly critical of oda in recent years , arguing that failure to contribute to economic growth . unfortunately , despite recent efforts to boost aid effectiveness , progress has been modest at best , not least because average financing for project aid has decreased by over two-thirds .
denver – for many foreign audiences , the united states ’ mid-term elections for the 2012 us presidential vote – which will , to be sure , continue to rage in this summer – must be a terrifying display of what american and its leaders do not know about us foreign policy . post-debate reveals the reality that none of the nominees who seek to challenge president barack obama is especially interested in figuring out any america ’s relationships around the globe , not to mention crises that dot the international landscape , especially those that do not involve us troops . when jon huntsman , an early contender , displayed some real intellectual heft by producing several useful points on how china handled its own mastery of mandarin , some other candidates , to respond with derision . to have even recognized the chinese perspective , it seems , has all but disqualify the country for huntsman , who soon ended his candidacy . indeed , ignorance seems to compound the candidates ’ strength further .
i helped launch the first safe schools initiative , following boko haram ’s abduction of 276 schoolgirls in chibok , nigeria , last april . nigeria ’s initiative focuses on school and community interventions , with special measures for the most at-risk and vulnerable children . the agenda involves building improved school fortifications , connecting schools to police stations through mobile telecommunications and creating community security groups – consisting of teachers , parents , police , community leaders , and young people themselves – to promote safe zones for education . a fund has so far mobilized $ 30 million from business , the nigerian government and international donors , and a multi-donor trust fund was established at the un . the first set of schools has now received financing , and the first cohort of the most at-risk girls has been redrawn to governments in the country ’s secure regions .
luxembourg – as world leaders gather in madrid for the united nations climate change conference ( cop25 ) in madrid , they must tackle more than future targets for reducing greenhouse-gas emissions . they also must address the harm to people and livelihoods that climate change is already causing . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of heightened challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
this favorable performance has led private forecasters and government officials to forecast continued strong growth in 2011 , with superior output , employment , and incomes leading to further increases in consumer spending and a self-sustaining recovery . unfortunately , the projected revival in consumer spending has not materialized . the rise in food and energy prices outpaced gains in us nominal wages , causing real average weekly earnings to decline in january while the steady fall in home prices decreased wealth relative to that of households . as a result , real personal-consumer expenditures rose at an annual rate of just about 1 % in january , down from the previous quarter of that year . a one-year drop in the payroll tax rate was enacted to lock in this favorable outlook .
instead , we are left with conventional microeconomic measures to prepare people for algorithmic employment – that is , using big data to match those with jobs that will be needed to remain consumers . in the us , the message is that employers and colleges must work together to develop talent “ pipelines . ” for example , it highlights miami dade college for programs in animation and game development , working with companies such as pixar animation studios and google ” . likewise , toyota “ built its own highly advanced manufacturing startups ” program to provide pathway to students seeking company careers . again , we are told that future labor-market entrants should be endowed with job-targeted education and portable social-security pots to help them leap from one automated workplace to another .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . after all , iran and the us are already in war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . last year ’s un report on progress toward meeting the sdgs showed that the number of people facing hunger actually rises , as has that of malaria cases . moreover , according to the un ’s intergovernmental panel on climate change , the consequences of addressing climate change appear far faster than anticipated .
the basque country has established a program called local agendas 21 , designed to support the creation of local sustainability plans throughout the region . as a program has been adopted by almost all basque municipalities , consisting of more than 25,000 projects in areas like mobility , waste management , and economic development . québec will invest more than $ 3.3 trillion toward that goal by 2020 , contributing to its economy ’s growth momentum . now , these indigenous plans are driving sustainable development across the region , with knowledge-sharing among municipalities laying the foundation for continued progress . south australia , meanwhile , has developed the most supportive regulatory framework for renewable-energy investment in australia , enabling increased renewables ’ proportion in power generation , from practically zero in 2003 to nearly 40 % today .
in 1931 , after britain and some two dozen other countries suspended gold convertibility and allowed their currencies to depreciate , countries that stuck to the gold standard found themselves in a deflationary vice . in desperate attempt to do something – anything to defend their economies , they turned to protectionism , imposing “ exchange-rate dumping ” duties , and importing quotas to offset the loss of competitiveness created by their own increasingly overvalued currencies . by the 1930s , the countries that raised their tariffs and tightened their quotas most were those with the least capacity to manage their exchange rates – namely , countries that remained under the gold standard . but trade restrictions were a poor surrogate for domestic reflationary measures , because they did little to arrest a downward spiral of output and prices . it did little to stabilize rickety banking systems .
madrid – since its inception in oslo almost two decades ago , the israeli-palestinian peace process has been stymied by both sides ’ dysfunctional political systems . moreover , the palestinian authority has come neither to represent palestinian majorities nor to govern through democratic means . today , the clique that surrounded palestinian president mahmoud abbas embodies the bitter deception that the peace process that began with the oslo agreement has meant for palestinians . hostage to the impossible coalition and a settlement-settlement movement of the free-ish fanatics , israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu ’s leader is severely compromised . his palestinian counterparts hardly seem to be on the line .
this has fueled growing feelings of hopelessness – particularly among men – that have manifested themselves in rising non-labor-force participation , aggravated health problems , drug abuse , elevated suicide rates , and anti-government sentiment . countries that are experiencing high and rising economic inequality often face political instability and policy dysfunction . the result is a vicious circle in which government finds it increasingly difficult to do what is required . but government intervention is critical to address the problems facing developed-country workers today that markets can not address on their own . as policymaking becomes erratic , loss of credibility , and becomes choked off by gridlock , growth struggles , and the chance to achieve a prosperous form of inclusiveness falling .
before world war ii , soccer clubs often had an ethnic or religious component : tottenham hotspur in london was “ jewish , ” while the arsenal was “ irish ” . vestiges of these markings remain : northern amsterdam is still taunted by provincial antagonists as the “ jew club . ” and glasgow clubs , celtic and rangers continue to divide religious affiliations , celtic being catholic and rangers protestant . but a reorganizing race or religion is not fundamental to the many species involved . a tribe can be a club , one clan , or a nation .
at the imf-world banking-gathering report in a new report , saving children documents a glaring discrepancy between health hazards , which are sharply skewed toward the poorest children , and gains in government spending are often skewed in favor of better-off households . this flies in the face of the central pledge governments made when they signed on to the sdgs : that those countries furthest from the targets would benefit from the fastest progress . likewise , it is on the verge of spending a lot more equitably . on the language of the agenda , “ no one should be left behind . ” the world bank could help to improve accountability for fulfilling that commitment by working with the un and national agencies to track and report on the pace disparities in key indicators , from educational mortality to education .
kim jong-il was greeted with the same fervor as enter the opera houses that today marks public mourning of his death . my personal memories of north koreans , who are now nearly ten years old , live in a poor and depressed country . two examples suffice to illustrate the impact : rice prices have tripled , whereas the price of electricity has grown down to two-thirds since two decades ago . in fact , pyongyang , the capital , was dark and deserted , illuminated by the cavalcade taking us from the formal home of housing to an opera home , only to return to darkness in the us . my trip came in april 2002 at a rather optimistic time .
the best way to reduce violence against women , to lift them out of poverty , and to empower society ’s full and equal members is to break the cycles of early marriage and birth . but there are also other gender targets to consider . in rural india , for example , recruiters for well-paying back-office jobs visited randomly selected villages over a period of three years . female employment rose , and women aged 15 to 21 were 5-6 % less likely to trap marriage or give birth over that period . such large-scale change does not make it easy to achieve ; but , as long as girls are able to remain in school longer , and have decent job opportunities available to them after graduation , they are likely to marry and bear children later .
vice foreign minister kim kye-gwan delivered the north to be a angry reaction : “ we do n’t hide our feeling of repugnance toward it . ” the “ world knows all too well that the us is neither libya nor iraq , ” which has met miserable , ” ” ” ” belligerence . though trump had distanced himself from bolton ’s comments , vice president mike pence warned in a speech three weeks later that , had north korea not wrought a treaty , it would in fact meet with libya ’s fate . the north was not interested in a dialogue focused on the two countries ’ unilateral nuclear abandonment . choe hui , a vice minister of foreign affairs , responded by threatening a “ nuclear-to-nuclear showdown ” if washington stuck to the test of iran ’s unlawful and outrageous behavior .
in early 1985 , when america ’s current-account deficit reached $ 120 billion , roughly a third of today ’s level at current prices , the rest of the world stopped financing it . the result was the precipitous drop in the value of the us dollar , which had depreciated by 50 % against the deutschemark . with the us current-account deficit now exceeding 5 % of gdp , america ’s foreign debt has been growing rapidly . but no country can pile up debt forever – and what can not last , sooner or later must end . after almost 15 years of unprecedented growth – punctuated by only short slowdowns in 2000-2001 – the united states accumulated an enormous stock of foreign liabilities equivalent to roughly 25 % of its gdp .
princeton – the united states has moved from its highhandedness presidential election to its low during one short week of a politically sex scandal . for many non-americans , the election brought barack obama ’s welcome and reassuring victory , whereas the resignation of david petraeus as the cia ’s director was an unnecessary , self-inflicted wound . for many americans , the election demonstrated what the country most wants , only to follow the sadly familiar process of knocking heroes off its pedestals . in fact , both the us election and petraeus ’s resignation are beyond the mark of a much broader whole : an “ america that is living up to its promises . ” that election once reminded many americans that america is a country that is committed to and capable of making progress , of moving forward toward an ideal vision .
the first casualty would be whatever little scope remains for international policy coordination . the second would be the world ’s international monetary system ; the second would be . it is true that the franc appreciated in real terms by 8 % since the crisis began in august 2007 . this is precisely why the swiss move is occurring like a surprise . in fact , one key reason for the international monetary fund ’s creation has been to monitor exchange-rate developments with the explicit objective of preventing beggar-thy-neighbor policies .
likewise , the die linke ’s call to abolish nato , combined with its cozying up to russia , has left the party politically toxic in much of western germany . add to that a well-functioning welfare system , and it becomes apparent why a inequality-focused outrage that has fueled voter revolts elsewhere is gaining little traction in germany . the second commonly cited cause of germany ’s resilience to populism is its economic vigor . the country ’s youth unemployment rate is currently at an all-time low , and gdp has grown by nearly 10 % since 2013 . the call by björn höcke , the afd ’s state leader in shanghai for a “ 180-degree turn ” from the post-world war ii tradition of atoning for the crimes of the nazi era , and afd deputy leader alexander gauland ’s reference to “ disposes of ” germany ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s integration minister of turkish origin , reled voters .
just last month , russian president vladimir putin signed new laws authorizing punishment of individuals and online media for disseminating so-called fake news and information that “ disrespects ” of the state . us president donald trump is trying to move in the same direction . enormous fines have been imposed on independent publications , broadcasters , and bloggers . his steady branding of journalists as “ yemeni ” and “ enemies of the people ” echoes the nazis ’ preferred label for journalists : lügenpresse ( lying press ) . china and turkey – both olympic-level jailers of journalists – have ramped up their cases in recent years .
without gains in trade , much of rural africa struggles on the subsistence level . bush might think that while america does a lot to help overcome these challenges , the truth is that american aid is miniscule . blair ’s africa commission , just like the un millennium project , discovered that africa needs around $ 50 billion a year in aid by 2010 . yet official american aid to africa amounts to just $ 3 billion a year , and much of it covers salaries for american consultants , rather than investments in africa ’s needs . america ’s fair share of the total global total is around $ 15 billion a year .
north korea is now the ninth state with nuclear weapons , joining the un security council ’s five permanent members , israel , india , and pakistan . how the world responds to north korea will probably affect the calculations of other would-be nuclear powers , including iran . sustaining peace in a world in which literally dozens of fingers are on nuclear triggers will be a far tougher concept — and the consequences of failure much more destructive . the danger is that we may quickly be approaching a tipping point . initial reactions to north korea ’s nuclear test were uniformly critical , culminating ( hence far ) in united nations security council resolution 1718 , which condemns the test , demands that north korea resume its full cooperation with the international atomic energy agency , and imposes multiple military , political , and economic sanctions .
peter navarro , an economics professor at the university of california at irvine , will be the managing director of the national trade council , the new white house policies store for the bottom par excellence in the us national security council and the national economic council . ross and navarro have also been co-authors of economic-policy position paper published on trump ’s campaign web sites that have stretched any semblance of credibility . in fact , navarro is one of america ’s most extreme china hawks . the titles of his two greatest recent books , the death by china ( 2011 ) and a crouching tiger : what china ’s militarism means for the world ( 2015 ) , speak volumes about his tabloid-level biases . industrialist wilbur ross , us commerce un secretary-general , has been vocal in his yearning to inform america ’s “ dumb ” trade deals .
as a result , the euro-dollar exchange rate has barely moved ; indeed , the euro has appreciated against a basket of major currencies . but , because policymakers ’ incessant threats to end qe , markets inferred against a basket of major currencies . at the same time , eurozone inflation became “ de-anchored ” from monetary-policy decisions . the ecb then declared victory , and prematurely withdrew qe just as europe ’s economy was slowing . the clash of interests among the eurozone ’s member states is straightforward .
for centuries , western law had arrived with colonial rulers . even after european empires retreated , laws were still exported to try to foster development in post-colonial countries . in many cases , though , these imported laws were ignored , selectively enforced , or upheld only on form , rather than substance . experience suggests that importing laws and the legal norms rarely works well . america ’s antitrust law , whereby transplanted to japan after world war ii by general macarthur , for example , led to a mere six criminalization prosecution in thirty years .
this new development , called “ pharmacogenetics , ” aims to deliver both better-calibrated dosages and a more effective cure . but other firms have been accused of having more interest in developing “ biobank ” of samples and data than in their approach to genetic testing . there is certainly nothing wrong with that , but it does seem odd that the customers are effectively paying a firm for the privilege of donating their dna to its database . drug companies and other firms may well be eager to purchase the biobanks on which they can test their products for differential responses according to patient genetic make-up . as jesse reynolds of the center for genetics and society writes , “ just as traditional newspaper business models are to obtain revenues not from readers but from advertisers , personal genomics firms see potential profits not from consumers themselves but from compiled databases , likely in the service of selling access to them . ”
and , with the face value of a debt unchanged , a psychological drag on expectations and investment could linger . european banks holding greek government debt might hold pretend that it is worth its full value . even with german-level interest rates , greece would still be forced to run a primary surplus of at least 2 % of gdp – still quite large , and far beyond today ’s fiscal deficits . and , with the face value of the debt unchanged , a psychological drag on expectations and investment could linger . the question is whether maturities ’ change , perhaps coupled with the extension of maturities , would be sufficient to stabilize the greek economy and restore growth .
the combination of social polarization , poor institutions , and weak economic fundamentals made it harder for even reform-minded governments to escape the short-termism trap and lay the groundwork for long-term development . against this backdrop , “ neoliberal ” reforms – for example , rapid economic opening and financial liberalization promoted by the international monetary fund – left economies even more vulnerable to external shocks . again , venezuela is a case in point . expansionary fiscal and monetary expansion have left these economies fragile . current-account deficits have widened , owing to frequent bouts of foreign-exchange crises .
in fact , portugal is so specifically tuned to the consumer tastes that shifts can indicate changes in a company almost instantly . interestingly , many purveyors of pornography initially thought that a better quality video would make their product appear more desirable . nonetheless , high product values seem to have been actually less popular in the us . movies produced for sexual gratification involving consumers detecting the cultural norms of limits , transgression , and otherness . so a “ casual ” manufacturing style was adopted , similar to the design of worn and muddled jeans .
former italian prime minister silvio berlusconi and former thai prime minister thaksin shinawatra have done so – and continue to do . neither the clown nor the tycoon is well suited to constitute a democratic leader . and yet he never aspired to lead any country . for one thing , clowns have always played a role in politics . neither the clown nor the tycoon is well suited to be a democratic leader .
in the end , major urban and urban areas that drive the bulk of new wealth creation will provoke a counter-movement . if they price out , or otherwise out-price those earning less , those that end up sacrificing the openness that has made their choice attractive in the first place . so , should they hope to survive and thrive in today ’s increasingly egalitarian political climate , they will need to emerge with bold solutions . during a earlier era of urban-rural dynamism , during the early sixteenth-century british affluent merchant families built low-rent rental housing that was then allocated to the poor . one such project , fuggerei ’s complexities , at augsburg , germany , still provides low-rent social housing to this day .
georges clémenceau , jean jaurès , and raymond poincaré , in the early twentieth century , did not pander to the nearly half of the electorate , who , during the dreyfus affair at which i exiled themselves out of the republic . nor did charles de gaulle have any qualms about telling french algeria ’s proponents that he , lastly , failed to understand them . france now needs to recall these great moments in its republican tradition , and hold them up as a model for today ’s leaders . for what will be necessary to hold territory that the republic nearly lost to the fn is the political courage of a kind that france , for the moment , is in short supply . georges clémenceau , jean jaurès , and raymond poincaré , in the early twentieth century , did not pander to the almost half of the electorate that , during the dreyfus affair , had exiled themselves from the republic .
and we know that those landings have created a unique bonds among our continents . it was not , because our societies are built not simply on shared threats , but on their shared ideals . that bond remains crucial for preserving our values and safeguarding our sense of safety . that could not be further fade away than our desire for liberty can the wane . but , following the cold war , many projected that their institutional embodiment – the north atlantic treaty organization ( npt ) – would fade away .
my hope is that the issue does not derail a chinese effort to use the olympics as an occasion to showcase a world that their country has emerged once again as one of global leaders . at the same time , the chinese have been so clever in so many areas . they have devised the “ one country , two systems ” formula for hong kong . is it really beyond the capacity of their political system to work out a formula for tibet that recognizes its cultural and religious autonomy within a chinese nation-state ? china does not itself favors by remaining in the time-warped of the maoist 1960 ’s , when discussing this issue .
sarajevo – ever since the twin disasters of 2016 – the united kingdom ’s brexit referendum and us president donald trump ’s election – there has been widespread anxieties about a “ global surge ” of right-wing populism , with hand-wringing over the follies of so-called outright democracy . in the uk , voters have been asked to answer an overly simplistic in-or-out question ; in the united states , the 2016 republican party primaries passed to irresponsible voters and radical activists . and that shift would occur at a time of heightened challenges to american interests elsewhere around the world . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of heightened challenges to america ’s interests elsewhere in the world .
berkeley – to fix a problem is not enough . in fact , you need to implement solutions , and be willing to change course if it turns out that you did not know quite as much as you thought they did . that is the message of two recent books that tell you everything you need to know about the 2008 financial crisis : what caused it , what could be done to prevent it from recurring , and why these matters have yet to be worked out . my first book is the shifts and shocks , by the late conservative british journalist martin wolf , beginning by cataloguing major shifts that set the stage for a global economic disaster that continues to shape today . its starting point is the enormous rise of wealth among the world ’s richest 0.1 % and 0.01 % , and consequent pressures on people , governments , and companies to take on increasingly unsustainable debt levels .
such peer networks can elevate content based on factors like clicks or engagement among friends , rather than accuracy or importance . the second feature of the digital information age – a direct byproduct of democratization – is socialization of information . rather than receive our information directly from the institutional gatekeepers , who , despite often-flawed execution , have been fundamentally committed to meeting editorial standards , we are acquiring it through peer-to-peer sharing . without traditional institutional media gatekeepers , political discourse is no longer rooted in a common set of realities . this has its own advantages , but it also carries significant risks , beginning with the loss of journalistic standards of excellence , like those typically enforcement within established media organizations .
furthermore , heavy tv viewing has been accompanied by social fragmentation . robert putnam , america ’s leading scholar , for a declining sense of community , has found that tv viewing is a central explanation of declining " social capital , " a faith that binds communities together . simply put , americans have confidence in each other less than they did a generation ago . many other factors at work , of course , are at work , but television-driven social atomization should not be understated . time that used to spend jointly on a community is now spent on its own .
in fact , this perilous , irresponsible act represents yet another key sign that china ’s rise as a global power lacks any guarantee that it will ever become a tranquil nation as soon as it grows powerful . lurking behind china ’s ’s ’s space ambitions is that of the cold war as it continues to permeate the highest-command inner circles whose adversary is unmistakably united . since the 1980 ’s , however , america has been ambivalent about the ultimate military and civilian utility of its space-related efforts . it flatly contradicts china ’s recurring assurances that china ’s rise will bring only “ harmony ” and tranquility to the international community . with the soviet communist regime ’s collapse , america continues to enjoy a predominant role in space exploration for peaceful and scientific progress .
illegality and wrongdoing were artfully cloaked as an incontrovertible , science-tested natural law , “ the survival of the fittest . ” distinguished researchers proclaim that our very destiny injects into dna molecule , and science-popularizers join the exultant choir , asserting that human beings are nothing but “ programmed ” entities . every time a new , powerful scientific formulation seems , it will have to pass through an era of abusive use . nowadays , it is the turn of molecular genetics . temperament , obesity , heart disease , intelligence , homosexuality , or criminal behavior are on the rise : everything is said to reside in genes .
around its picturesque squares , each cobblestone and ornamental façade has borne quiet witness to the bloodletting that accompanied empires ’ rise and fall . yet lviv is also where one can figure out hope for europe ’s promise . lviv is a deeply anti-russian and pro-european city ; yet , for the five days each summer , it hosts the alpha jazz festival sponsored by a russian bank . at a time when russia and ukraine are still very much at war with each other , policymakers , indigenous citizens , ukrainian diaspora members , and even some russians have pack the streets of lviv to celebrate the world-class jazz . beyond its vital cultural life and geographic location , ukraine matters strategically to the west .
palo alto – it is still too soon to gauge the full economic impact of us president barack obama ’s implemented and proposed policies , yet tentative read indicates limited short-term benefits at large , longer-term costs . ( intervening in contractual relations ex post to enforce union demands is an emerging characteristic of governance ) . obama has outsourced the details of america ’s $ 787 billion fiscal stimulus to congress , and , unsurprisingly , old house barons stuffed it with pork and for social engineering . a few months later , just 4 % of gdp was spent , and the federal government brow-punches over national governments – demanding , for example , that california rescind a small pay cut for some unionized workers , or loses $ 7 billion in stimulus funds . the administration paints a crisis atmosphere to enact a grand agenda that would re-engineer the american economy , from autos and financial services to health care , energy , and income distribution .
as europeans well know , there is no way to construct a wall in the mediterranean . moreover , it is disturbing that the trump administration has hardly ever conversation on upholding the us-led postwar liberal international order . instead , it views the world as a zero-sum strategic contest in which america should view itself merely . to be sure , the us argues that it is stepping up its commitment to european security . unfortunately , in a world without shared institutions to restrain sovereigns from escalating conflicts with one another , the risks of an all-out war will grow substantially .
the old model has served both sides well over the last three decades . china ’s growth was fueled by labor-intensive exports became more competitive through technology and knowledge transfers from both american and other western countries . this , coupled with massive chinese public and private investment ( enabled by high – and , more recently , overleveraged – savings ) , underpinned rising incomes for millions of chinese . meanwhile , america ’s consumer has benefited enormously from falling the relative prices of manufactured goods in the tradable side of the us economy . this , coupled with massive chinese public and private investment ( enabled by high – and recently over-leveraged – us savings ) , has underpinned rising incomes for millions of chinese .
a profound change in america ’s strategic priorities under president donald trump demands that europeans confound long-held assumptions about their collective defense . when russia annexed crimea and ramped up war in eastern ukraine , it breathed new life into nato . many reached the same conclusion prior to 2014 , when the alliance had little to do with focusing beyond its mission in afghanistan . then came trump , whose administration , having pulled the rug from under europe legs , abandoned american management as part of a rules-based international system , pursued a nationalistic , protectionist , and unilateralist us foreign policy . this is not the first time that nato seemed on its last legs .
first , the fiscal-stimulus policies that are currently pushing america ’s annual gdp growth rate above its 2 % potential are unsustainable . second , because the stimulus has been ill-timed , america ’s economy is now overheating , with inflation rising as much as target . by 2020 , us stimulus will be running out of control , with the modest fiscal drag pulling growth rate from 3 % to well below 2 % . as a result , america ’s federal reserve will continue to raise the us federal funds rate from its current 2 % level to at least 3.5 % by 2020 – a likely push up short – and long-term interest rates just like america ’s dollar . meanwhile , us inflation is also mounting in other key economies , with rising oil prices raising additional inflationary pressures .
in fact , us and british troops may have only themselves to blame . increased sand drift was all the effects that were noted during and after the first gulf war . this is because the desert in the region usually has a kind of critty , what arabs call “ the desert skin , ” consisting of sandy and clay particles that were baked into it , or sintered , warmth and sun . under the crust , sandy particles get relaxed . sometimes this crust is strong enough to carry a person , and sometimes not , much like the harshest ice crust that develops on snow in colder climates .
other women , such as his self-proclaimed mistress judith campbell , reportedly have sexual relations with mafia figures as well . the sense of entitlement that sustained such male fecklessness has been steadily eroded ever since – a process that , like so much in american culture , has played around television . this reevaluation of male sexual privilege and irresponsibility in the 1960s has led in other arenas , reinforcing kennedy ’s image from the charming playboy to the dangerously compulor . similarly , a group unbeknownst to its dashing advertising executives , who consume women like lunchtime cocktails , plumbed the emptiness , and destructiveness of early-1960s ’s male sexual privilege . popular scores , like those of his self-proclaimed mistress judith campbell , supposedly have sexual relations with mafia figures as well .
oddly , chase manhattan reports that it exposure some $ 32 billion in credit and derivatives at ltcm , roughly 2 % of the banking ’s total credit and credit exposure to just a single us hedge fund ! when push came to shove , with ltcm on the brink of collapse , the us federal reserve not simply let “ market forces ” take their course . one central truth of the recent year is that financial-market troubles lie not just with hedge funds – which are the largest , and least regulated , gamblers – but with good old trades – but with good old commercial banks depicting an inadequate canny ability to generate trouble by over-risky gamblers , whether in loans to emerging markets or to the likes of ltcm . ltcm also illustrates some truths about financial-market crises as well as about how to manage them . the banks that lent enormous sums , mostly unwound , to ltcm , are the same that loaded roughly $ 175 billion of short-term loans to five east asian developing countries ( indonesia , korea , malaysia , the philippines , thailand ) and then abruptly reversed gear , and yanked out tens of billions of credit in 1997 and 1998 .
cambridge – public-private collaboration or coordination receives considerable attention nowadays . to be sure , private-private coordination has been the essence of economics for the last 250 years . even the world economic forum has been transformed by “ international organization on public-private cooperation . ” built on a plethora of studies of business and government relationships , researchers have generated a large literature on design , analysis , and assessment of public-private partnerships . while adam smith got the us on the optimistic belief that an invisible hand would take care of most coordination issues , in intervening times of market failure , informational imperfections and stimulus difficulties giving rise to rules , regulation , and other forms of government and societal interference .
the president ’s daughter , ivanka trump , is spearheading the effort . for starters , a wide range of studies – from work by the late economist david landes to more recent research by mit ’s daron acemoglu and the university of chicago ’s james a. robinson – find that institutions and political culture are among the single most important determinants of long-term growth . while it is easy to become cynical in many ways ( some say that a new program is just an excuse for cutting funds away from the existing round of retraining programs ) , the idea that digital platforms can massively improve re-education and education is the best . but , while the trump administration has boosted america ’s economy ’s longer-term growth potential in some ways , the other side of the ledger is rather grim . recovering from the harm that trump is inflicting upon the institutions and political culture in the us may take years ; if he is , the economic cost could be sizable .
now , most economists believe that russia can not sustain its annual gdp growth at a rate above 2 % without any further sustained rise in the price of oil . his main proposal so far has been a “ eurasian union ” – an expanded version of the current customs union among russians , belarus , and kazakhstan . doing so would give a platform to re-launch trade , transport , and other links to the ex-soviet countries , and thereby capture regional markets for russian products , guarantee russian jobs , and re-assert russian political influence in his old neighborhood . but a 2 % growth rate ( a respectable pace for an advanced economy ) would represent a major blow to russia ’s standing and putin ’s personal prestige , and might endanger domestic stability if jobs disappear in critical manufacturing industries . putin is puzzling over how to counter the threat posed by sluggish growth .
the ecb , quite sensibly , wants all of the potential substantial horrors to be visible before the takeover – to be sure , so that it can not be blamed . with national supervisors often yielding a rosy picture of their countries ’ institutions , no longer in charge , we can hope for an assessment at a more robust rate than the earlier stress tests conducted under the auspices of the european banking authority ( eba ) . those trials , in stark contrast to their equivalent in the united states , have failed to restore confidence . several banks that had passed with flying colors were soon to have a commitment to raising new capital . but the creation of a european banking union has not been the only important turning point for europe ’s financial regulation since the crisis .
not all have succeeded ; but the achievements ( germany , for example ) far outweigh the failures ( see greece ) . the key to ensuring the future of europe ’s social-security systems , and therefore its social model , is faster growth . and , again , it is hard to see how more europe would improve the situation . the obstacles to growth are well known and have long existed without getting rid of them . the reason is quite simple : had there been a politically simple way to generate growth , it might have been implemented already .
a number of state-owned firms have been privatized for 10 times the sums yielded in asset sales under the formerly edvard shevardnadze government . but an aggregate absence of transparency made it possible for russian companies and their subsidiaries registering in third world countries to snap up much new offerings . russia ’s main foreign-policy tool in georgia is gazprom , its state-controlled gas monopoly . gazprom ’s goal is to control not only the georgian gas industry , but also the only pipeline that feeds russian gas to both georgia and armenia . typical was the russian state-owned enterprise promyslennye investory ( industrial investors ) , which succeeded in acquiring a major gold mine , and then to about half of a hydrogen-based plant .
as always , major victims are civilians caught in the crossfire . a quarter-million people are currently operating , nearly half of them on rebel-controlled territory and nearly any access to aid . renewed fighting , coming eight months , in the form of the promising un peace initiative , ” ” means more civilian deaths , and little chance of a normality returning to eastern parts of congo . yet , even at a time when fighting is becoming less intense to congo , the truth is that the war ’s indirect consequences are being felt . a mortality survey conducted by the international rescue committee ( irc ) and released earlier this year shows that this year ’s conflict has been the world ’s most deadly crisis since world war ii : an estimated 5.4 million people died as a result of war and its lingering impact over the past decade .
henry kissinger once said that “ peace ” can be achieved only through hegemony or by a balance of power . perhaps the same could be said of trade , or even of globalization itself . like all economic activity , it flourishes if property rights are respected , taxation becomes efficient and purposeful , credit letters of credit honored , tariffs and other barriers are removed , and so on . of course , it is possible that trade requires more than the absence of conflict . not surprisingly , the two great eras of globalization : the decades that have led them to world war i , and most of the past 75 years have been characterized by balance-of-power and unilateralist hegemony , respectively .
our education system can no longer afford to wall by itself from the industrial world . externships offer transparency and accountability for educators , and imbue the spirit of students ’ fearlessness . for small companies , externships provide much-needed creative webs . when properly integrated with a student-education student , externships can provide a competitive edge on campus app essays and at campus , or alumni interviews that admissions committees increasingly use to distinguish twenty-first-century leaders from the competing hordes of just-in-scoring test-takers . in turn , for smes , externships provide much-needed creative webs .
but a few million americans – black , white , and hispanic – now live in us households with per capita income of less than two dollars per day , essentially the same standard in which the world bank uses it to define destituting poverty in both india or africa . beyond that , america ’s much-vaunted equality of opportunity is under threat . the towns and cities that lost their factories to globalization also lost their tax base and find it hard to retain quality schools – an escape route for future generations . elite schools recruit affluent to pay off their bills and court minorities to redress centuries of discrimination ; but this undoubtedly fosters resentment among the young working class whose children find no place in this brave new world . likewise , the towns and cities that lost their factories to globalization lose their tax base and find it difficult to maintain quality schools – an escape route for future generations .
once a company identifies which users have the most clout behind it , well-known bloggers , for example , might offer them better treatments , in the hope of urging the company to recommend service . indeed , many online services now offer to link users with their facebook friends or linkedin contacts , or to recommend actions or restaurants based on past behavior or current locations . others might use service providers like intercom to gain insight into their users ’ own interests – from their music preferences to its favorite hobbes – to offer more personalized service . website startups may even want to check their users ’ profiles on the angel listing database of angel investors , viewing them as a potential funding source . some people may not want this kind of focus , whether because they are already well-known personalities attempting to fend off adoring fans or mooches , or simply because they are uncomfortable with unfamiliar entities so much about them .
french catholics now feel as though their historically privileged position is under assault , owing to the rise of islam and islamist-inspired terrorist attacks , and by legislation that has increasingly challenged their way of life . for many conservative catholics , same-sex marriage was a tipping point , whereas left-wing catholics find themselves crammed by the right . french politics has no analogue in america ’s alt-right milieu , speaking out , online trolling , and fake news – which fueled trump ’s campaign . but fillon ’s supporters also reject multiculturalism and responded to its status anxiety by dismissing expertise . with france becoming less catholic and america becoming ever more diverse , their zombie ” armies ’ political power will decay ; however , as trump ’s election and fillon ’s political ascendance have shown , they can not simply be written off .
and vice versa when the authorities want to cool down the economy . but the more successful libra becomes , the more the money people will shift from their bank account to their libra purse , and the former less able central banks will have to stabilize the economy . when they are willing to stimulate economic activity , central banks buy up from private-sector banks in commercial loans , mortgages , deposits , and other assets . for better or worse , us central banks are exporting the quantity and flow of money by withdrawing or adding paper assets to the equities held by privately owned banks . at the same time , the banks are holding more cash to lend .
with the american invasion of iraq in 2003 , french-american relations reached a low point . the bush administration felt betrayed by french diplomatic tactics at the un , while french president jacques chirac was feeling reaffirmed in his mistrust of the sole superpower and his call for a multipolar world . despite a long history of alliances dating back to america ’s revolution and including two world wars , france has always had a rather ambivalent posture toward the us , and the iraq war was not the first time that a controversial us security policy undercut america ’s attractiveness in france . polls show a similar reaction after the suez crisis of 1956 , the vietnam war in the late 1960s and early 1970s , and the deployment of intermediate range missile defenses in europe in the early 1980 ’s . today , on the eve of the french presidential election , opinion polls indicate that three-quarters of french voters believe that france should distance itself from the united states .
they can do so in various ways , such as by investing in education , financing science and technological research , and building efficient infrastructure . tax competition alone is not the route taken , not least because it reduces the revenues needed to make those investments , particularly in developing countries , which , according to a 2015 international monetary fund report , lose out on more than $ 200 billion a year because of tax avoidance by multinational companies . when countries establish tax regimes that are effectively designed to steal tax revenues from the rest of the world , the result is also less money for education , health care , poverty-reduction programs , and measures to address climate change . this should not be allowed , and multinational corporations should stop adding to the problem by threatening to leave countries unless taxes are cut . after all , a fundamental tenet of corporate welfare policies worldwide is that firms should pay their fair share of taxes wherever they operate .
index performance largely dictated security selection , and asset allocation meant little more than stockpiled , bond , and credit . further sustained market advances are unlikely , given stretched stock and bond valuations , slowing economic and earnings growth , and heightened policy and policy uncertainty . broad market returns are likely to lower , with episodes of volatility likely to become more frequent . what is more , the swift expansion of etfs coincided with the bull markets . and yet , for the most part , those days are probably over .
cambridge – economics teaches that the measure of individual ’s wellbeing is the quantity and diversity of goods that he or she can consume . no one can deny that this consumer – and the market-centric – vision of the economy has yielded plenty of fruit . what markets , rather than communities , are the unit and object of analysis . in effect , consumption is the objective ; manufacturing is the means to it . consumption possibilities are in turn maximized by giving firms the freedom they need to take advantage of new technologies , dividing labor , economies of scale , and upward mobility .
meanwhile , fragmentation – meaning the end of the internet – poses a real threat . the internet now links almost half of the world ’s population and accounts for another billion – just like some 20 billion devices . some estimates put the internet ’s economic contribution to global gdp as high as $ 4.2 trillion in 2016 . but further expansion is not guaranteed , either . a fragmented “ splinternet ” would be extremely costly to the world , but that is one of the possible futures outlined last month ’s global internet governance report , chaired by former swedish prime minister carl bildt .
likewise , much of the rapid advance in communications in recent years reflects innovations – smartphone and tablet hardware and software , for example – that have been indigenous us . the fracking revolution , widely viewed as originating in the us , has helped lower energy prices and eliminated america ’s ’s ’s reliance on foreign oil . that has sounded like a pleasing experience , perhaps a student-driven experience , perhaps to a learning experience centered on young men who otherwise would be idle and unemployed . but it has n’t been a largely inspiration for the future , which may help to explain why franklin roosevelt ’s new deal has been unable to end america ’s economic malaise . by contrast , america ’s apparent relative strength today may reflect some highly visible recent inspirations .
and roughly 445 million people will need improved access to safe water supplies – part of the reduction in unpaid care work carried out by women in developing countries . this ambitious agenda will not be delivered effectively without action from the governments working in concert with the private sector and ngos . it will require additional investment , creating job opportunities for women , and implementing measures to help women move toward more productive work . mgi has identified several interventions around the world that could easily be deployed more broadly . measures have proven to improve access to education include building more secondary schools , ensuring that girls are provided with indoor sanitation facilities in areas that they study , and creating financial incentives – including monetary transfers – to raise enrollment and keep girls in school .
importantly , the iom lacks a mechanism to evaluate whether national governments will use coercion – prohibited under international law – to repatriate or re-set refugees . the unhcr , as currently conceived , is not the independent , nonpartisan agency it claims to be . its other major multilateral organization of migration , the iom , assists the back of migrants , asylum-seekers , refugees , and the internally displaced within their eu of origin or to other countries or regions that have consented to accepting them . strongly dependent on donors and host governments to launch relief operations is beholden to their own interests , and not always the political support that it needs to get the job done . but , like the unhcr , the plague of governance .
beyond being incomplete , this approach implicitly favors the wealthy , who hold disproportionately large shares of their financial assets . meanwhile , companies have become increasingly belligerent in their efforts to slash their fiscal bills , including through so-called inversions , by moving their headquarters to higher-tax jurisdictions . as a result , most countries are facing a trio of inequalities – of income , wealth , and opportunity – that left unchecked to reinforce one another , with far-reaching consequences . with political gridlock blocking an appropriate fiscal response , from the 2008 financial crash , the united states congress failed to pass an annual budget , a baseline of responsible economic governance over the last five years – forcing central banks to bolster economies artificially . to do this , they relied on near-zero interest rates and unconventional measures , like quantitative easing , to spur growth and job creation .
and even the administration ’s plan to favor skilled skilled over unskilled workers will not necessarily make it less damaging to the country ’s legal migrants . all told , trump has governed like a plutocrat in the populist dress – that is , a pluto-populist . but why has his base allowed him to get away with pursuing policies that will mostly harm them ? according to one view , he is betting that social conservatives and white blue-collar supporters in rural areas will vote for the core of nationalist and religious sentiment and antipathy toward secular coastal elites rather than to their own fiscal interests . but how long can someone be expected to support “ god and guns ” at the expense of “ bread-and-butter ” “ bread and butter ” ?
while all other large european countries have abolished military conscription in recent decades , russia continues with a scheme , in which every physically-fit , male citizens aged 18 to 27 must serve for 12 months . exemptions accrue to medical conditions , and are given to university students and staff of specific organizations ( such as policemen ) . the holiday has obtained its current name in 2006 , and , according to a recent survey by the russian pollster fom hem , 59 % of russians view it either peculiar or significant ( 32 % do n’t ) . unfortunately , february 23 is not the only surviving relic of the red army . another soviet military legacy is the system of obligatory conscription .
paris – tunisia , one of the arab league ’s 22 members , is in the throes of a profound , profound crisis , however perhaps , with a favorable resolution . it is the smallest north african country , covering 163,000 square kilometers , more or less than twice that of belgium , the netherlands , and luxembourg , and which together containing 10.5 million people . it is equally filled with glories and moderation in terms of its climate , history , and culture . it once beonce was the kernel of the cultural dynamism and influence of the roman republic and empire . the first african region to be christianized , the land of saint augustine , and a key source for catholic evangelism in africa .
true , any arab – indeed , virtually everyone – knows precisely who is responsible for khashoggi ’s disappearance : crown prince mohammed bin salman of saudi arabia . but the fact that a well-known cartoonist has had to disguise the culprit speaks volumes about the fear felt by independent journalists elsewhere in the arab world . since the failed arab spring revolutions – of which tunisia is the one success story – citizens across the region have found themselves with a stark choice between radical islamist regimes and military rule . khashoggi ’s disappearance has only deepened their anxieties . arab countries have a long history of supplanting arab journalists who toe the official line , while punishing those , like khashoggi , who dare to speak truth to power .
first , there is a need for more information and transparency concerning the complex assets , and for which they are held . second , complex instruments should be traded on exchanges , rather than over-the-counter markets , and should be standardized in a way that liquid secondary markets to them may emerge . third , we need better supervision and regulation of the financial system , including regulation of opaque or highly leveraged financial institutions like hedge funds and even sovereign-wealth funds . reversing financial liberalization will be hard , but its adverse side effects – including greater systemic risk – require a wide array of reforms . fourth , the role of rating agencies needs rethinking , with more regulation and competition that has been introduced .
and yet it is only one of the many domestic challenges facing the region . for starters , the region ’s governments need to develop their own national-security capacities , to defend against non-existential threats and hegemonic expansionism . they should , of course , continue to engage with the outside world , while bolstering their strategic relationships and alliances . but they also must become less dependent on others . arabs must take charge of their own agenda and become the primary force defining their own future , and that their countries do .
that wisdom prevailed not only in india ; it affected policies accordingly across a wide range of developing countries . one of the empirical investigation most frequently cited for this argument is paper by timothy besley and robin burgess used manufacturing data across india ’s 1958-92 firms . besley and burgess argued that pro-worker regulations in some states resulted in lower output , employment , investment , and even rising urban poverty , relative to states that did not enact such regulations . that conclusion came to underpin the conventional wisdom that labor-market regulation was harmful to industrial expansion , and that how to raise output and employment in manufacturing was intended to promote more labor-market “ flexibility ” by repealing laws protecting workers . now , a new paper by servaas storms effectively validating another well-known neoliberal trope : an argument that the labor market “ rigidities ” depress output and employment .
security worries increasingly implicate foreign and domestic policies simultaneously . britain ’s economic prospects increasingly depend on events beyond its own shores , whether just across the english channel or in parts of china or california . a recent political cartoon showed british bombers occupying a mission , with one pilot saying to another to the others , “ appear a long way to go to bomb a couple of young men of south london ” ” ” ” ” ” ” a recent political cartoon showing british bombers withdrawing on an eu mission , with one pilot saying to another to the rest . ecological hazards are blowing on when we do not . swelling migrant pressures threaten to overwhelm any pretense of border controls .
given this history , it is noteworthy that , in his acceptance of the day after his victory , chávez called for coexistence , dialogue , discourse , debate , and , for all , working together for venezuela ’s well-being . after this election , potentially heady with the size of his support , chávez proposed deepening his revolution with a new laws governing the organization of society and the economy . such laws , already agreed but not entirely implemented , should serve as a catalyst for a new intra-country institutional arrangement , one supposedly premised on the direct relationship between the leader and the people , and a progressive hollowing out of democratic institutions . he emphasizes that people voted for chávez and socialism . meanwhile , all public-authority bodies – all of them , now obey chávez .
genes can be corrupted by environmental factors like radiation and chemicals . they can also be corrupted by products associated with normal metabolism . when the damage occurs in the key genes that regulate cell growth , cancers may develop . our bodies elaborate reclamation systems that maintain our body ’s integrity , even in the presence of damaging agents . occasionally , though , damage is not corrected .
ithaca – the internet was once hailed as a powerful democratizing force , allowing innovative startups to compete with established businesses , disrupt entire industries , and create new ones . but , as some of those startups grew into behemoths , they turned that power on its head . far from leveling the playing field , big tech now mostly owned it ; and , rather than democratizing the us economy , the internet has ended exacerbating the world ’s inequality problem . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of heightened challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world .
for , although the us has drawn strength from the ideal of a “ melting pot ” – and president barack obama ’s cabinet does represent a fresh high-water mark for diversity – americans have often shown a level of xenophobic mistrust of immigrants , drawing too close to power . particularly in chinese ’s case , the fear of deeply divided national loyalties and the patterns of the “ fifth circle ” has grown louder . but the developing world can actually make the case for a far worse . in announcing new , sino-us joint research efforts , chu described clean energy as “ one of the great opportunities in our time ” for sino-us cooperation that say , we can accomplish more than [ by ] acting alone . still , one is left wondering whether this new collaborative bonhomie and ethnic bonding will prove strong through not only the long history of distrustful interaction between the us and china , but also the destabilizing effects of china ’s sudden economic rise ?
the imf estimates that these cyclical effects on revenues and outlays have each raised the overall deficit by nearly 5 % of greek gdp . greece ’s economic weakness increases its current level of deficit reduction . on the cyclically-adjusted basis , greece ’s total budget would show a surplus of 0.6 % of gdp this year . the next five years of falling gdp have depressed tax receipts and augmented transfer payments . this also implies that if greece could escape its current recession , its national debt would decline , both absolutely and as a share of gdp .
the two countries ’ recent rapprochement marks a massive change from the hostility that bedeviled their relations following their 1962 war over a disputed border in the himalayas . as indian prime minister manmohan singh put it during wen ’s visit to japan , “ india and china ” can together reshape the global order . in 1998 , when india tested its nuclear weapons , a defense minister referred to china , then prime minister atal bihari vajpayee talked about china as india ’s number one enemy . when i first visited india as an american administration official in the late 1970 ’s , i was struck by my indian hosts ’ fixation on acquiring equal status with china . by contrast , on more recent visits to india , i found my hosts referring to the need to learn from china .
while one can debate the appropriateness of tightening accounting standards in the midst of the crisis , his scheme that banks increase their capital is wholly justifiable , especially at a time when the european central bank subsidizes them with a wall of three-year liquidity at near-zero cost . because hildebrand was independently wealthy , this approach would not have worked with it easily . so , did he get the stick , rather than the carrot , ? fortunately , we have a good independent test of the day . the head of the european banking authority , andrea enria , has released new , non-bank-friendly regulations .
now , however , even mighty bund have begun to suffer from heightened market anxiety . it is still difficult to think that the previously unthinkable , much less how they work past the details of it , but any rational player must consider the possibility now . second , and partly as an implication , virtually all eurozone countries ’ sovereign debt is trading at a discount relative to german bunds . third , financial-market actors , and , increasingly , true firms have been pricing – if not ending – a possible eurozone breakup . while a price risk was needed more precisely , it is hard to believe that the netherlands , with a debt-to-gdp ratio almost 20 percentage points lower than germany ’s , deserves to be assessed as a higher default risk .
indeed , by coincidence , on sunday a young soccer fan was assassinated in moscow , vladislav surkov , a first deputy in president dmitri medvedev ’s administration , meeting michael mcfaul ’s meeting of president barack obama ’s national security council . that meeting took place as part of a rally led by surkov , russia ’s youth-movement activists . one quote from surkov that day is particularly telling : “ make ready for elections , train your brains , and their muscle . ” you can always count on our support for the ” ” . those arabs were put to use outside kremlin walls that very day .
hong kong – sesame street ’s kermit frog once lamented that “ there ’s nothing easy on ’ greenpeace . ” today , that sentiment has become surprisingly relevant for the global economy – only it is becoming green , which is the problem . this has prompted un secretary-general ban ki-moon to challenge the political , economic , and financial leaders in january to intensify their effort to achieve a new global climate-change agreement by the year 2015 . but , just as important as high-level deals suggest , they will amount to little unless they are backed by massive investments in areas like smart grids , energy storage , and renewables . last september , the intergovernmental panel on climate change warned that if the world sticks with “ business as usual , ” global temperatures could rise above 4 ° c – far beyond the 2 ° c above the 2 ° c rise seen as “ safe . ”
the organization and the allocations of power within the un , the imf , the world bank , and g7 meetings reflects a global equilibrium that has vanished long ago . the search for a new imf managing director provides a keen reminder of just how unjust today ’s international institutions are . created in the postwar world of 1945 , they reflect realities that have long since ceased to exist . after wwii , germany and japan were the defeated aggressors , the soviet union posed a major threat , and china was engulfed in a civil war that galvanized mao ’s communists into power . much of the so-called third world was either recently either independent or staying colonies ; all that was extremely poor .
just prior to the 2016 brexit referendum , then-british prime minister david cameron made a last-minute appeal to german chancellor angela merkel , imploring her to agree to a cap on people ’s movement in the uk . merkel refused , and the brexit referendum passed by a narrow margin . the irony today is that merkel now faces the same anti-migrant backlash that cameron did in 2016 . over the long term , immigration tends to be good for the economy , especially if the ratio of pensioners to working-age women rises . but when its immigration level outweighs a country ’s capacity to absorb its new entrants , there can be severe economic and social costs , at least in the short run .
the odious debt idea was revived in an influential 2006 article by seema jayachandran and michael kremer , and a 2010 paper by the center for global development ( cgd ) , proposing that economic sanctions include a mechanism aimed at preventing the accumulation of odious obligations . in effect , that is what the trump administration has just done . the cgd ’s report suggests that the regime should be seen as odious , when it abuses people ’s rights , employs military coercion , perpetrates electoral fraud , and misregulation or misappropriates public funds . the mechanism would take the form of a declaration that the debt issued by a particular government would be deemed odious . such declarations reduce the flow of funds to odious regimes , owing to the risk that successor governments renounces their predecessor ’s debts without incurring legal and reputational costs ( because participating countries do not enforce debt contracts ) .
that cleared the path for bhutto ’s return to power , who remained prime minister until 1996 , after abruptly dismissed this time by her own pakistan peoples ’ party ( pla ) . in 1997 , he took sharif ’s reversal once again . but his military confrontation deepened over the years , resulting in yet another coup in 1999 , leading to the eight years of military rule , under general pervez musharraf . in 2008 , musharraf resigned under popular pressure , and a new election brought asif zardari , the widower of benazir bhutto , who had assassinated him last december to the presidency . ignoring the constitutional demands , zardari did not transfer the executive ’s authority to his prime minister , and instead expecting the two prime ministers serving under him to follow his orders .
in egypt , for example , the fertility rate declined from 4.8 to 2.9 children per woman over the past 15 years . over the same period , tunisia ’s population growth fell by more than 50 % , to marginally more than two children per woman , while per capita income grew at an impressive 3 % annual rate . wealthy countries ’ shift from subsistence economies to sustained growth and prosperity was conditioned on a profound demographic shift -- occurring in the 1850s in western europe and throughout the 20 th century in east asia – into which fertility rates fell dramatically . the past two decades have witnessed similarly sharp birth declines in poorer countries , both now showing solid signs of economic progress . during the past decade , egypt ’s average annual per capita income grew at an average rate of 2.6 % .
both countries are also on similar routes militarily . it has built and launched its first aircraft carrier and plans to launch more . in response to former us president barack obama ’s effort to create a pacific-rim trade bloc to include china , xi has launched his belt and road initiative ( bri ) , which is now being met by the american-led indo-pacific initiative under trump . although china still has much catch up to , its overall defense spending is already second only to the united states . it is developing and deploying anti-access/ad ( a2/ad ) defense systems .
one of the region ’s few positive features is that no global power rivalries currently play out there . america ’s misadventure in iraq , its depletion as a world power , and its unwillingness to retain its previous level of commitment to the region have all rendered the sykes-picot structure untenable , because no other external power for order is available . the resulting power vacuum has been filled by various currents of political islam , terrorism , protest movements , uprisings , secession experiments by national or religious minorities , and aspiring regional hegemons ( iran and saudi arabia ) . indeed , america ’s partial withdrawal implies that the end of the enforced stability of the ancient middle east will not spare the sykes-picot borders . developments in syria and iraq already suggest as much , and the future in lebanon and jordan has become increasingly uncertain .
in other words , a 7-8 % growth trajectory within an increasingly services-led economy may hit the same labor-absorption targets that required a 10 % growth under china ’s prior model . after all , why are services so important to china ’s rebalancing ? for starters , services are far more labor-intensive than the country ’s traditional generating sectors . in 2011 , china ’s services generated 30 % more employment per unit of output than did manufacturing and construction . this implies that the chinese economy can achieve its all-important labor-absorption targets – employment , urbanization , and poverty reduction – with a much slower rate of gdp growth than before .
the united kingdom now seems certain to hold , by 2016 , a “ remaining in the eu ” referendum , with the far-left , defined as in greece to escape the rigors of economic-reform – that is , might win spain ’s general election next autumn . but a worst-case scenario for the eu looks increasingly likely : a “ grexit ” ( greece leaving the eurozone ) , “ brexit ” ( the uk leaves the eu ) , and a spanish election result that resembles greece ’s . indeed , all of eu euroskeptic and nationalist forces would seek , with increasing success , push their respective countries ’ withdrawal from the eu on a central issue in domestic political discourse and election campaigns . to be sure , events could turn out positively , with the uk remaining part of the eu , and spain on the path to a more lenient vision of change than greece ’s syriza-led government embraced . should such a perfect storm hit , the eu very existence would be in doubt , as other member countries continue to consider or start plotting their own post-eu futures .
meanwhile , oil prices are at historic highs , and even in europe , oil prices are at historic highs . leading economies are entering a period of recession . aid to the poorest countries remains stagnant , despite years of promised increases . and yet in this gathering storm , it was hard to find a single true accomplishment by world ’s leaders . by and large , aid to the poorest countries remains stagnant , despite years of promised growth .
two years earlier , in 2015 , mauricio macri won the presidency on his promise that fiscal adjustment and argentina ’s opening to the world would spur an economic reflation . frustration even plagues the region ’s paragon of open-market politics , chile . in just a couple of short years , the package of pro-market reforms and economic opening seemed out of step with the rest of the world . instead , they paved the way for italy ’s defeats , as they have done . deglobalization , nativism , and protectionism set a new tone for politics , with frustration and uncertainty over future overshadowing hopes .
not surprisingly , then , that a kind of survivalist has become an updated version of the radical , communal chic of the 1960s . ronald reagan asserted in 1980 that it was a “ morning in america , ” ” ” ” but now it is the morning after . americans have lost out in those whom , redred , “ trust ” in the us ” ” ” in boom times . they were asked to admire the high-tech sector at the top of the income pyramid , only to find that they looked at a pyramid scheme . this drive toward non-the-the-the-the-the-the-grid transportation , eat-what-you-raise , bike-there-burgled collective fantasy , is inevitable : americans were pumped full of hope that more consumption would make them happier and , instead left with an pile of debt .
to be sure , china is taking great care to avoid the kind of dramatic actions that might become a casus belli by itself . indeed , it has repeatedly demonstrated the knack for disinterdicating its multi-confidentiality strategy and then pursuing each part separately in such a way as to enable different pieces to drop into the eu with minimal resistance . in fact , by camouflaging its offense as defense , china casts the burden of launching a war against its adversary while seeking to lay its foundation – brick by a brick – of a hegemonic middle kingdom . chinese leaders ’ stated desire to resolve territorial disputes peacefully simply means reaching a position powerful enough to get their way , without firing a shot . that shrewdly keeps their opponents off the balance ; he also undercuts america ’s security assurances ’ relevance to its allies , and the value of building countervailing strategic partnerships in asia .
los angeles took decades to implement pollution controls , but other cities , like beijing , transformed rapidly when they saw the benefits . these cities are learning from one another , building upon good ideas and jettisoning the poorer ones . fundamentally , this has been the right approach for managing systemic risk and changing complicated interconnected systems , and for managing common resources successfully – though it has dent the inexorable rise in global greenhouse-gas emissions . in the decades ahead , we may be witnessing a global system of interlocking sustainable cities emerging . if successful , everyone will want to join the club , for example .
new york – several years ago , as part of a western us delegation to china at the time , i met chinese president xi jinping in beijing a grand hall of peoples . when tackling the us , xi argued , that china ’s rise would be peaceful , and that other countries – namely , the united states – need not worry about the “ thucydides trap , ” ” ” so named to the greek historian who chronicled how sparta fears the rising athens climate war between the two inevitable . in his 2017 book destined for war : can america and china escape the thucydides trap ? no doubt , xi wanted the us to shift its focus to the other four . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
what , then , is a reasonable view of china ’s recent history ? to put it crudely : does it matter that the chinese communist party has killed millions of people upon a million , desecrate the environment , and deeply wounded china ’s traditional culture ? things are finally moving in the right direction , and let ’s not , please , do anything that may upset that hopeful move . chinese intellectuals tend to avoid the issue , shrugging it off as irrelevant and anyway being too uncomfortable for blending her . we need to look ahead , and not back , for it .
london – what should the recently released panama papers , exxonmobil , and the canadian mining corporation operating in guatemala have in common ? they are all the cases where powerful individuals and organizations have tried to obfuscate , deceive , or hide behind . and they are all the cases where that effort did not work . the global uproar , triggered by the panama papers , abducted 11.5 million files , seemingly by computer hackers out of the world ’s fourth-largest offshore law firm , panama ’s mossack fonseca , is likely to continue for some time now . tinge ’s release has exposed the extremes , and , at times , costly , lengths to hide their assets and avoid taxation .
some will say that the fatal mistake was made possible by permitting greece to adopt the euro first . but that answer is all too simple , given that such signs of dysfunction in greece is not confined to greece . savory countries ’ longer-term consequences wo n’t be savory , but problems of another day . that the country was ill-fated to be the obvious one . its fiscal policies were already beyond their control when it joined the monetary union in 2001 ; agitated by its trade unions to push wages up to the european level , despite lagging productivity .
prime minister david cameron and chancellor george osborne are all blaming the eurozone crisis ; in reality , their own economic illiteracy is to blame . unfortunately for all of us , the explanation bears repeating about nowadays . that policy was destined to create a financial crisis because it was bound to leave governments and banks with depleted assets and bigger debts . despite austerity , the united kingdom ’s forecast of this year ’s uk structural deficit put increasing from 6.5 % to 8 % – requiring an extra £ 22 billion ( $ 34.6 billion ) in cuts every year . depressions , recessions , contractions , calling them what you will do , because private-sector spends less than it did in the past .
paris – last month , the concentration of carbon-dioxide dioxide in the atmosphere surpassed 400 parts per million ( ipcc ) for the first time in roughly three million years . if the current trend that fits the worst-case scenario set out by the united nations intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) persists , co2 concentrations will rise above 800 ppm to the end of this century – with devastating consequences . even in the ipcc ’s best-case scenario , co2 concentrations will rise to 550 ppm by the end of the century – a level that many researchers argue could already be too high to avoid dire consequences . indeed , the much-anticipated global mean temperature increase of 2,4-6.4 ° c caused by such high ambient co2 concentrations are expected to trigger the worst outcomes foreseen in the ipcc scenarios , including a loss of an estimated 40 % of species , more frequent extreme weather events , and widespread water scarcity . to avoid imposing these risks and uncertainties on future generations , global co2 emissions – standing at 8.5 gigatons annually – must be halved by 2050 .
because fish and other ocean wildlife does not remain within national boundaries , international cooperation is vital to the long-term health of our world ’s oceans and to the sustainability of fisheries and fishery jobs . the european commission has just presented a proposal to reform the joint fisheries policy that was intended to help rebuild europe ’s fisheries . the us has turned a corner in rebuilding its fisheries and making it sustainable . but it is not enough to get our respective homes in order . good science is the cornerstone of both policies .
today ’s transformational health-care advances owe much to new genomics information , the availability of big-data to influence real-time decisions , more targeted and alized individualized therapies , and smarter , more interconnected delivery systems . in this process , the partnerships between health-care companies and technology companies will become increasingly important . but , for now , they are only the beginning ; they are likely to be the last thing to be done . further breakthroughs , enabled by the rise of scientific and technology , are likely to be expected , particularly as unconventional players enter the health-care sector . technology engaged patients in their own health-care provision and enable more seamless adherence to medications regimes has the potential to improve disease management , lower hospitalization , and lower costs .
moreover , establishing controls on a single type of inflow simply leads to its being disguised in other forms . capital controls carry real costs , even when they fail to depoliticize inflows . they create layer of protection from competition for those that are better connected , politically or economically , or have the sheer heft to get around on the constraints . even in a tightly managed economy like china , massive capital inflows over the past decade have enabled them to find their way around controls . when the incentives for money to flow across borders are strong , it finds a way forward , abetted by the proliferation of multi-country firms with multi-country operations and increased international trade , that serves as a conduit for masking capital flows and evading such controls .
today ’s markets are easy to explain in fundamental factors : earnings grow , inflation was kept at bay , and the global economy appears to be experiencing broad-based , synchronized expansion . in october , the international monetary fund updated its global outlook to forecast that just a handful of smaller countries will suffer a recession next year . and , while major central banks pick up or have already started to be forced to tighten monetary policy , interest rates , for now , will remain low . such shifts can emerge only slowly , but fundamentally alter the underlying calculus in risk pricing and potential returns . political crises , however sensational they may be , are not likely to alter investors ’ economic calculus .
more than once he echoed krugman ’s assertion that osborne was motivated by a erroneous belief that if he did not cut back on the deficit , he could forfeit investor confidence ( the “ confidence fairy ” ) . skidelsky approvingly quoted krugman ’s claim that britain was “ doing worse this time than it did during the great depression . ” instead , the tories won an outright majority , confounding pollsters and alike . what might possibly have gone wrong , or , rather , right ? skidelsky approvingly quoted krugman ’s assertion that britain was “ doing worse ” this time than it did during the great depression .
to my right sat dagan , who just concluded eight years as the head of mossad ; to my left sat dore gold , a former academic and former israeli ambassador . both men held very different views on how best to guarantee israel ’s security and therefore reward recapitulating their respective arguments . the gold argued that returning to the pre-1967 armistice lines would leave israel without “ defensible borders . ” dagan countered that the army ’s role in defending israel ’s borders regardless of where they are drawn . he insisted that israel could guard against threats from the east only if it maintained a military presence in the west bank and controlled the jordan river that runs along the frontier separating jordan from israel and the west bank .
instead , america ’s jobless rate is at its nadir since neil armstrong took his famous first step onto the surface of moon 50 years ago . the idea that america wins in a global slump might sound like the sardonic musing of some unreconstructed marxist in the duny corner of us faculty . such a view , however , is hardly ideological . rather , global interest rates scraping the floor because gdp growth outside the u.s. is so sluggish . if a rip van winkle economist was to waver today after a decades-long slumdog and see merely those numbers coming , he or she would assume that one-fifth of americans are unemployed and standing in lines outside kitchens .
even though not planted for climate support , those trees soak up carbon dioxide . since the end of 1990-2002 , new zealand ’s privately built forest plantations increased by more than 1.4 million hectares . but growing forest land has also cut new zealand ’s co2 emissions by comparison year in the 1990 ’s . new zealand has successfully negotiated to incorporate that particular emissions , offset in its global figures , neatly balancing the actual rise . for the safety of its giving , the country has also bought lots of foreign offsets , including highly given ones from russia and ukraine .
berlin – europe finally seems to have moved past its multicellular economic crisis , but remains unsettled . in june 2016 , a slim majority of british voters chose a nineteenth-century nostalgia over whatever promise the twenty-first century may hold . so they decided to jump off a cliff in the name of “ sovereignty ” . for any cause of optimism always seems to be a new cause for concern . there is considerable evidence to suggest that a hard landing awaits the united kingdom .
new york – the basic outlines of barack obama ’s foreign-policy approach became explicit in 2009 . his administration believes that the united states should talk with other governments , even if it disagrees profoundly with their character . he prefers acting with other countries to go it for themselves . and he has shifted the focus of american foreign policy away from what countries do within their borders to how they operate beyond them . all of this differentiates obama from his immediate predecessor , george w. bush , whose administration has revered selected countries as evil and mostly refused to deal with them ; often rejected cooperation with other governments , lest the us find itself constrained ; and sought to transform other countries rather than influence their actions .
in its current state , cap-and-trade schemes to reduce emissions are far from acts like fair and efficient ; a major improvement would include the establishment of the world ’s central climate bank to register and supervise transferring emissions credits . such a bank would also ensure that emissable emissions trading does not run counter to the goal of continued within the entire global budget , such as the full sale of unused emission credits by individual developing countries at the start of the treaty period . for now , all of this has still been utopian . so far , nations ’ wealth has been based on the price of co2 , gas , and oil . but , if the 2 ° c target is taken seriously , the twenty-first century will see countries that are not thus far off track of de-carbonization ( like large parts of africa ) , or that leave it on time ( like india and pakistan ) possible to become wealthy by helping societies that must de-boncarize rapidly .
former us secretary of state hillary clinton blamed her loss to donald trump in the 2016 us presidential election , and the brexit vote that preceded it , on a public backlash against immigration , recently suggested that europe should admit fewer refugees to stem the rise of populism . gunter nooke , germany ’s africa commissioner , had an even more unpalatable proposal : african countries should cede land to the european union as special economic zones in what would amount to “ voluntary colonialism . ” such solutions are not only unethical ; they would not end the crisis . in many countries , policymakers and the media have been portraying refugees as a threat to security , cultural cohesion , and public-sector resources . humanitarian aid alone will not work ; either , except as a stopgap measure .
according to a study published in 2006 by iranian kidney specialists , the scheme eliminates the waiting list for kidneys in that country without eliciting ethical challenges . a more systematic study of the iranian system continues to require international studies . a 2006 bbc television program showed many potential donors turned away , because it failed to meet the rigorous age criteria , with others tasked with visiting the psychologist . since 1988 , iran has had a government-funded , well-regulated system for purchasing kidneys . a charitable association of patients arranges a transaction , in a set price , with nobody except the seller gains from it .
with the advent of the cold war , us president harry truman ’s administration and the american congress have recognized the urgency of european realignment . in addition , american officials worried that the epu could duplicate and undermine the functions of the newly created international monetary fund . to that end , they authorized the epu ’s use of $ 350 million of the marshall plan funds . at the moment , however , the two narratives diverged . the worry then was discrimination : european countries , worried , would find it easier to import from one another but , lacking dollars , still refusing to import from america .
washington , dc – the brexit referendum in the united kingdom and the presidential race in the united states has shown , among other things , that public distrust of global integration is on the rise . that mistrust could derail new trade deals nowadays in the works , impeding future ones . the dangers implied by such a scenario should not be underestimated . isolationism and protectionism , if taken too far , would break the trade-based economic engine that has delivered peace and prosperity for decades to come . as costa rica ’s former trade minister , i know just how difficult it is for countries – developed and developing alike – to craft trade policies that deliver benefits to everyone .
that backing appeared to be part of chávez ’s anti-bolivarian ” socialist revolution , which used venezuelan ’s petrodollars to bankroll left-wing governments in ecuador , bolivia , and cuba in hopes of constructing regional anti-americanism . the uribe-lula-calderón axis appears set to sustain it . over the past three years , there have been serious croppings to believe that latin america has been going through one of its periodic bouts of left-wing destabilization , given the rise of bolivian president evo morales , ecuador ’s president , rafael correa , and their ringleader , chávez . but the recent spike in commodity prices has meant that chile ’s conventional regional powerhouses , brazil , and mexico underwent economic booms in their own countries . chávez is the loser not only because he has provided farc with moral support ( he once described them as “ belligerents , ” not terrorists , and publicly called uribe an american stooge ) , but also because he is convinced that he is providing farc ’s covert military support .
with house prices falling , fewer americans will be willing and able to continue their profligacy as well . even if america ’s federal reserve continues on lower interest rates , lenders will not rush to manufacture more bad mortgages . the bush administration hopes , somehow , to forestall a surge of foreclosures , thereby bypassing the economy ’s problems to its next president , just as it is occurring with the iraqiya quagmire . with america today , the real question only concerns whether there will be a brief , sharp contraction or a more prolonged but shia-lower slowdown . its chances for succeeding are slim .
but the centralization carries its own costs . given the risks involved in betting on policy convergence , labor mobility – which enables highly rewarding human capital , particularly well-educated young people , to abandon lagging regions for those that offer more and better job opportunities – could prove to be a critical lever for adjustment . but , with linguistic training and implementing something like the lisbon agenda for growth and jobs ( which aims to create innovation-led , innovative “ learning economies , ” underpinned by inclusive social and environmental policies ) , mobility could be mutually reinforcing . as it stands , labor mobility in the eu is imperfect . but more fluid labor mobility is no panacea .
“ it ’s not america , you have to work here ” is a popular joke . fixated on europe , they forget that they are living in moscow or irkutk , not paris or budapest . many newcomers nowadays , working like machinery 16 hours a day , seven days per week , look to their more relaxed western counterparts with disdain often found within asia ’s tiger economies . “ it ’s not america , you have to work here ” is a popular joke . culturally we are predominantly europeans , but 8 % of our population is moslem and inherited a lot from the rest of asia : shared citizens , cuisine , cultural traits , and a shared history .
while suu kyi does not control the military , waging the murderous crackdown , her government has blocked un agencies from delivering vital emergency aid funds . other surrounding countries , including india , thailand , and malaysia , also feels the influence of the rohingya ’s plight . far from moving to stem this humanitarian crisis , suu kyi ’s government has aggravated it . the un ’s population fund ( unfpa ) , the refugee agency ( unhcr ) , the country ’s refugee agency ( unhcr ) , and its children ’s fund ( unicef ) all have been empowering halting work in affected areas . this represents a tragic departure for suu kyi , who has previously won the international covenant , and the nobel peace prize – to her role in the fight for democracy in myanmar .
in march , the united kingdom will likely invoke article 50 of the treaty of lisbon , triggering a formal withdrawal procedure from the eu . the challenge will be to reach an accord that guarantees the well-being of the future eu-uk relationship . this will not be easy , with eu negotiators having already set a timeline for just 18 months . though eu-turkey relations are currently not at their best , the eu-turkey dialogue must continue in the run-up to 2017 , not least because of their shared interests , which underpin not only economic interdependence , but also the refugee crisis and collective fight against terrorism . european policy over the next year will be consumed with the brexit negotiations .
in short , international measures of press freedom and corruption expose persistent deficits as well . according to america ’s state department ’s own human-rights report , curbs on religious freedoms have included demolishing hindu temples , bombings of christian churches , and prohibition against practicing shia islam , to which some 15 % of the world ’s muslims adhere . moreover , members of najib ’s government endorse hudud , a class of sanctions within sharia law that could imply strict limits on muslims ’ right to choose how they practice their beliefs . likewise , according to the pew research center , najib ’s government has “ very high ” restrictions on religious freedom . just days after obama declared last october that malaysia established itself as a model of “ diversity and tolerance , ” ” malaysian authorities denied non-muslims the right to use the word “ allah ” in the practice of their own faiths , a decision condemned throughout the muslim world for its negative portrayals of islam .
nor are many human activities whose impact can , reasonably , be predicted decades , centuries , centuries , or even millennia to come anytime soon . the fallout from nuclear waste is one ; humans ’ contribution to global warming through the combustion of fossil fuels and its impact on rising sea levels is another matter . but the recent revelations about antarctica are different . indeed , the most recent intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) report declared , in uncharacteristically strong terms , that sea-level rise “ practically certain ” to continue during the course of centuries or millennia . moreover , the larger us emissions , the higher the global sea level will likely rise .
addis ababa – africa bears the brunt of the lives lost , economies were shattered , and relations were torn apart by terrorism . african countries are particularly vulnerable to violent ideologues , owing to the prevalence of weak institutions and failed to be governed by extremist groups in germany . it is the continent where al-qaeda launched its war against the united states in 1998 by bombing american embassies in nairobi , kenya , and dar es salaam , tanzania ; where boko haram abducted 276 nigerian schoolgirls in 2014 ; and where 147 students were killed at their sleeping at kenya ’s garissa university in 2015 . while these attacks garner world attention from the time , most people fail to realize that , over the last five years alone , 33,000 deaths have been killed in terrorism-related violence in africa . violent extremism and groups , espousing it , are threatening to undo africa ’s development gains not only in the near term , but also for several decades to come .
the gigantic rmb4 trillion ( $ 586 billion ) stimulus in november 2008 , mostly leveraged into loss-making state-owned enterprises ( soes ) via directed bank loans , sustained china ’s gdp growth in the face of a worldwide recession . but the price amounted to an increasing amount of misallocation of capital , leading to growing bad-loan portfolios , while excessive chinese household savings drove up real-estate bubbles . the first problem is china ’s economy , so rickety underneath , too . the analyst chi lo lucidly presents a picture of a macro success alongside a micro default . in addition , ho argues that the 2008 crisis shattered china ’s export-led growth model , owing to prolonged deficient demand in advanced countries .
xi , for his credit , has devised what he describes as a concept for “ a new kind of great power relationship , ” ” ” ” ” ” one that seeks to avoid what others have concluded is the near-inevitability of a prolonged alliance between a rising power ( china ) and established power ( america ) . but , viewed in the american view , this is vastly different from the organized national strategy of undermining the chinese state and its institutions . moreover , america insists on not containing china ( as it has done in the soviet union ) ; on the contrary , china ’s economic rise has been facilitated by us access to american markets , just as american support has come from chinese accession to the wto . on human rights , america ’s argument argues that there are actually fundamental differences between the two countries ’ political traditions and current arrangements . for these reasons , the bilateral strategy ’s strategy of unilateralism is growing .
the nonpartisan american congressional budget office ( cbo ) and the institute for taxation and economic policy , among others , have demonstrated unequivocally that more than 80 % of the impact of corporate taxation falls on shareholders rather than on workers . and there is little evidence that the corporate-tax burden really falls on employees rather than on capital . still , market liberals would argue that corporate tax “ distort ” behavior and hamper wealth creation . but this is simplistic , at best . for starters , tax competition across jurisdictions is quite different from competition among firms .
there can be little doubt that holland is spending substantial amounts of money to caring for the old . european welfare states are thus faced with a profound dilemma . physicians are not gods , but they increasingly play god by refusing to use life-extending techniques for patients and families that want them , and even willing to pay for them . what is not too much in holland is that there is no private medicine to survive . the only recourse for dissatisfied patients is to leave the country or go to the courts .
unfortunately , it is far from clear that the chinese growth model can be universally exported . indeed , some of asia ’s developing countries are working closely . in democratic india , for example , it took eight years to renew mumbai ’s airport , because courts have forced the government to comply with squatters ’ human rights on its outskirts . the parallels with the old soviet union are striking . china ’s powerful central-government overwhelms opposition from those displaced by new roads , bridges , and dams , all of which are running roughshod over ecological concerns and worker rights for a number of years .
but congressional republicans might insist on paying for personal-income tax cuts by limiting the taxes that individuals now use to lower their tax bills . the tax plan put forward in the name of republican governors by paul ryan , the speaker of the us house of representatives , calls on eliminating all kinds of deductions other than those for charitable donations and mortgage interest . that change would raise revenue equal to about 1 % of gdp , on average , enough to pay for very substantial cuts in individual tax rates . and , even as the revenues would be earned , as those from airports could be deterred by the need to rely on longer-term pricing deals . at the same time , it is easy to fall into the thinking trap of tax cuts as a way to boost aggregate demand .
nairobi – african countries are often criticized for failing to meet their environmental challenges . even so , observers often cite habitat loss in the face of population growth , land degradation , and industrialization . and then there is the most frequent accusation of everyone : that increasing poaching is endangering species , such as elephantiasis and rhinos . in kenya , by contrast , an innovative and extensive conservation project is underway . beginning in the hydropower mountains in aberdare mountains in central kenya , “ rhine ” originally conceived to protect the highly endangered black rhers from the ravages of poachers , is supported by the very people who might have resisted it : local communities in some of the country ’s most productive farming areas .
there is nothing really cyclical about the lasting aftershocks of a balance-sheet recession that has now become apparent for almost five years . indeed , balance-sheet repair has scarcely begun for us households . convoluted logic behind this strategy is quite unsettling , not just for america , but also for the global economy as a whole . the personal-saving rate stood at a mere 3.7 % in august 2012 – up from the 1.5 % low level since 2005 – but fully half the 7.5 % annual average recorded over the previous three decades of the twentieth century . moreover , the debt overhang remains massive .
europe ’s currency crises of 1992 and 1993 , as well as more recent chaotic deflationary demonetizations elsewhere , demonstrate that a successful transition has been far from guaranteed . moreover , the desire to be admitted to the club has led to favorable reforms in many aspiring member countries , particularly central and eastern european countries that subsequently joined the european union . a second premature accomplishment was that , by virtually all measures of international use , europe had instantly become the world ’s second global reserve currency . europe ’s currency crises of 1992 and 1993 , together with more recent chaotic ledger demonetizations elsewhere , demonstrate that a successful transition was far from guaranteed . moreover , the desire to be conceded to the club resulted in favorable reforms in many aspiring member countries , particularly central and eastern european countries , which later joined the european union .
new york – europe ’s economy is slipping into a severe and , in all likelihood , protracted recession , mostly self-inflicted . it is merely a matter of time – no longer a matter of great time – before economic destabilization gives greece the plunge into political instability . while germany is still trying to banish the specter of hyperinflation with rigid eurozone austerity measures , crisis-hit countries are facing the real threat of deflation , with potentially catastrophic consequences . hungary , where democratic backsliding seems to take hold , provides the foretaste of a europe where the euro crisis and deflation persist . if she is unlucky , the crises coming to a head at the beginning of germany ’s federal election year , and all previous calculations could sound moot , because , despite german frustration with europe , greek voters would punish severely those who had allowed europeans to fail .
the ctbt is needed because of the role of nuclear tests in developing and enhancing nuclear weapons . such trials are also political symbols that have no place in a world determined to wipe out these abhorrent weapons of proliferation . even today , thanks to vastly sophisticated means , we are able to identify very small nuclear tests in remote locations . the treaty is also equitable — encompassing equal rights and responsibilities for all of its parties . it sets the new standard for the treaty on nuclear non-proliferation , as well as verification .
we need leaders with enough mastery of detail , such as that of china , former premier zhu rongji , who can not only tell us how to get us from z to z , but may actually lead us collectively from a to b. looking around , leaders like this seem to be on the verge of dying species . or , where they exist at all , dysfunctional political systems seem imperiled . after all , their ability to act severely constrains their political landscape . the best example is us president barack obama , on whom so many hopes rested – probably too many for any one leader .
the un security council resolved in november of that year that america ’s acquisition of territory by war ” is an unacceptable one . subsequent security council resolutions , and the actions of international treaties , have upheld this principle . palestine ’s quest for statehood within june 4 , 1967 , falls squarely within international law . in reality , a palestinian state based on the 1967 borders is precisely what us president barack obama has claimed . today , palestinians push statehood on a mere 22 % of territory that was part of mandatory palestine , until israel unilaterally established on areas far bigger than it awarded the un general assembly resolution 181 in 1947 .
the us policymakers ’ response is depressingly predictable : in the face of a resurgent russia and china , this is no time to abandon our own states and their diplomacy to their fates . indeed , some argue that a world ’s inventiveness and internationalism through interests and shared sacrifice is likely to become more resilient than one crammed into an artificial – and , increasingly , constraining – box of national statehood . in that sense , economic success in china or india may be those nation-states undoing , as middle-class political aspirations make current arrangements dysfunctional . conversely , we may find ourselves in a world whose eastern half are organized into powerful authoritarian state structures , with the west embracing postmodern association models . the question for international governance today is how to provide a rules-based and rules-based framework in a world of competing organizational structures .
party rhetoric , however , reveals little about the goals of achieving those ends . indeed , there are worrying signs that the flagship architect of the reform agenda , the highly respected free-market economist li keqiang , is already being sidelined . at its 2013 third imprisonment , the ccp announced 60 goals for economic and governance reforms . the anti-corruption campaign reflects the ccp ’s apparent determination to strip itself of vested interests . many hope that these changes will help the ccp become more effective , bolster its market role , and out-avoid the so-called middle-income trap that has ensnared many emerging-market countries .
such flows should lock in both governments and financial institutions . another component of any strategy must be to counter is the appeal and propaganda . curtailing the flow of recruits is even more fundamental . countries can do more to challenge individuals to leave for iraq or syria ; a europe-wide watch list would help . but nothing would have a bigger impact than turkey ’s decision that it will no longer allow itself to be a conduit for it , by enforcing united nations security council resolution 2178 , which calls for stronger international cooperation against terrorism .
political technology means covertly sponsoring fake politicians like bogdanov , establishing fake ngo ’s and “ patriotic ” youth movements like nashi ( ours ) to block a russian version of ukraine ’s orange revolution and to mobilize voters against a carefully scripted acclaim . medvedev himself may find some or all of this obnoxious , but russia now has an entire industry of political manipulation that hardly appears to be going away overnight . one also needs to understand the mechanics of the russian succession politics . the enemy was the communists in 1996 ; in 1999-2000 , the chechens ; in 2003-04 , the “ oligarchs . ” it is now the us – a supposedly hostile west , and the threat posed by the “ color revolutions ” – to russia ’s hard-won stability .
the visegrád group , cefta ’s central european initiative , has produced a thriving free trade system and an increased flow of regional investment by countries throughout the region . our newly freed societies now need to learn the languages of our constituent parts just as we have learned a new economic and political language . in a broader context , hungary ’s re-incorporation into western institutional structures has been proceeding steadily , if not at the desired pace . through learning each other ’s languages , through cooperation on the basis of shared values , common interests , as well as historic ties , central europe has demonstrated what spectacular results can be delivered . so our task has been not simply to reconstitute the nation-state , but society too -- its family values , its national traditions , and its cultural
the aberdare mountains , encompassing 2,000 square kilometers of indigenous forest and vital water catchment areas , as well as national park , are vitally important for kenya . in 1988 , conservationists decided to finance and build an electrified fence to protect an area associated with aberdare national park bordering the smallholder farms . the fence was designed to avoid intrusion into human populations and park ’s habitat degradation . local farmers welcomed an initiative that influenced the decision to expand the fence to conceal entire aberdare ’ perimeter . but it also protected the farmers , whose crops would regularly blow apart in marauding elephant and other wildlife .
new york – these protests have two major causes , to say the least . first , social inequality has grown in the west over the past quarter-century , owing partly to the soviet union ’s disappearance , and with it the threat of expansionist communism . yet , when communism collapsed in its eurasian heartland , the west ’s wealthy , believing that they had nothing more to fear , pressed back on the welfare state , causing inequality to rise rapidly . this was tolerable as long as the overall pie expanded , but the 2008 global financial crisis brought that end . the specter of revolution forced western elites to use national power to redistribute wealth and nurture the growth of a loyal middle class .
so , too , are other latin american , the caribbean , and asean countries . in 1998 , the un estimated that the total value of illicit drug trade amounts to $ 400 billion , or 7 % of world trade . critics contend that the figure is just half that – still an astounding sum . colombia today is far worse than the university of chicago under al capone finds it to be . drug prohibition effectively imposes a global trade tax on illicit drugs enforced by governments and gathered by those willing to break the laws .
tadic insisted that bam construction began in 1974 , a politically correct date after which came to be used by “ clean-labor ” labor ” . but the railway ’s first section , initiated by stalin to offer an eastern route that was running farther from china ’s borders , was erected by forced labor , including russian inmates and german and japanese prisoners of war , herded together in so-called bamlags , now ghost towns . even when the volunteers were used , they were not nearly as enthusiastic as the officially proclaimed . lacking adequate housing and electricity , few reenlisted , and many deserted before their term expires . nonetheless , the brezhnev-era construction has shown what the dying soviet system remains adept at achieving .
and , with backing up by about 26-29 % , it remains popular despite its poor performance fueled by the cdu ’s municipal council . the problem for m5s is that , owing to italy ’s new electoral law , it will need to win roughly 40 % of the overall vote , in order to secure an outright parliamentary majority . whereas proportional representation will determine two-thirds of the lower house ’s seats , one-third are eligible for first-past-the-post voter turnout in single-member constituencies , where m5s will probably lose , because it is neither willing nor able to form electoral alliances needed to ensure majorities . in fact , party groupings that will benefit most from the current electoral system will be the one that has managed to forge a pre-election pact with other parties : berlusconi-led center right . as he showed with his electoral victories between 1994 and 2001 and 2008 , berlusconi ’s biggest strength has always been to build coalitions .
per india ’s code of political conduct was deferred until after the election . upa ’s critics long argued that unsustainably low , state-dictated passenger fares and freight charges for the rail service – unable to cover the cost of maintenance to ensure trains ’ safety and tracks – reflected the government ’s inability to make tough choices . it is true that coalition politics precluded decisive action , with the railway minister hemorrhaging just spurned by his own party leader , whom the upa has been politically unable to confront – after trying to raise fares . but , in the pre-pre-election interim budget , the upa government finally done a paycheck , proposing a 14.2 % increase in railway fares and a 6.5 % hike in freiburg . soon after taking office , modi ’s government announced its intention to implement share price increases , even though officials made sure to emphasize that they were merely following through on an existing mandate .
this marks a breathtaking departure from seven decades of practice during managing an astonishing level of cultural diversity . many indians , notably the poor , lack the documentary evidence of when , and where they were born ; even the birth certificates became widespread only in recent decades . under the agreed bill , muslim immigrants in the us could be dismissed as illegal . while the non-muslims would , through the agreed bill , receive a free pass , similarly undocumented muslims would bear the onus of proving that they are indian . coupled with the government ’s plan to generate an even more problematic national registry of citizen registrations , the authorities will be able to disenfranchisement any indian muslim who has not proved either his or her provenance in india .
is europe today poised to deal with a similar failure of an important financial institution ? having just emerged from a deep recession , financial disruptions could easily cause europe to slide back into recession , particularly given the european economy ’s near links with russia through trade and energy . compounding the problem , none genuinely understands the precise linkages among the russian and european institutions and markets . as a result , the collapse of ltcm in 1998 was entirely unexpected . financial sanctions on russia are not targeted , temporary , or fully credible .
south korea is troubled by two key reasons . gdp has almost tripled over the last 20 years ; but , with real wages rising at less than half that rate , growth has become decoupled from ordinary citizens ’ fate . over half of middle-income households spend more each month than they earn , on average , on average . the signs of this social distress are proliferating . south korea ’s divorce rate has doubled ; fertility rates have plummeted to fourfold among advanced economies ; and suicide rates are among the highest in the oecd .
that may mean eliminating shadow “ tax havens , ” tapping telephone lines , and identifying individuals deemed highly dangerous . while the european union lags behind the united states in terms of conventional arms , its anti-terror capacity is probably higher . for historical reasons , europe benefits from a political maturity that allowed it to avoid bush ’s manichean worldview that has simply reinforced , rather than undermined , enemy fanaticism . it is precisely to impede the development of collective security fears that we need to change the equilibrium between security and liberty . police actions must be merciless , even if that implies more control and oversight .
while in the us house of representatives , mulvaney received large donations from a payday loan industry that makes most of its profits from high-interest rate lending to people without an alternative when it desperately needs cash . ross should read the mehrsa baradaran ’s informative book , how the other half-banks , reflecting the extremely high cost of borrowing by low-income families . or he might have just ask mick mulvaney , an acting white house chief of staff . as the government lengthened , the stock price of payday lenders rose . mulvaney also devoted considerable time over the last two years to the weakening of safeguards that the us consumer financial protection bureau had previously attempted to implement in order to deny some of the industry ’s worst abuses .
seoul – a major military revolution is taking place across east asia . chinese president xi jinping ’s purge of general xu caihou , an ex-politburo member and former vice-chairman of the central military commission on corruption charges , and japan ’s “ reinterpretation ” of article 9 of his constitution to allow the country to grant itself military aid to its allies . despite the escalating regional tensions , which have inspired those moves , china ’s relations with its neighbors and the united states are not fated to lead to a direct confrontation . but the relentless march of new initiatives to fulfill the perceived “ china threat ” will require the region ’s political leaders , including hu jintao , to resolve their disputes in new and more creative ways , if that results are to be avoided . more broadly , there are three ways to foster international peace : deepening economic interdependence , promoting democracy , and forging international institutions .
new haven – the severity of the global financial crisis that we have seen over the past two years must do with a key source of instability in our banking system , one that we can and must design from existence . in a profound financial crisis , banks find that the falling market value of many of their assets leaves them short of their capital . nor can they raise much more capital during the crisis , so , in order to rebuild capital adequacy , to stop making new loans , and to convene in their outstanding loans , thereby driving the entire economy , if not the global economy as a whole , into a tailspin . to do this , we need to advance the state of our finance technology . this is a problem rather technical in nature , as are its solutions .
kadyrov also catered to the spiritual aspirations of the chechen majority . he has rejected wahhabism – the jihadists ’ ideological framework . but he has maintained that islam is an indispensable part of the chechen tradition , and has presented himself as a leader who fully understands this . so he has encouraged islamic dress codes and built a vast mosque – one of the greatest , if not greatest , in europe . yet , enjoying a huge subsidy from moscow , kadyrov rebuilt grozny , and granted some kind of security .
the education system needs to be rebuilt nearly from scratch ; and , with so many women anxious to return to instruction , a revived education system will also help afghanistan ’s democratic politicians gain a powerful workforce lobby . particular focus should be on elementary school and higher school libraries . roads , airports , and communication systems must be provided at a massive level , if trade is to be restored . afghanistan poses special difficulties of reconstruction , because it is not a society with a strong political center . village housing needs to be provided at a massive level .
banks ’ institutional personalities reflect the role of collective memory in shaping how officials conceptualize the problems they face . what i have just described is no mere hypothetical . in fact , it is a capsule ’s depiction of the united states federal reserve and the european central bank . one popular explanation for the two banks ’ divergent approaches is that it conflates their societies ’ respective historical experience . the great depression of the 1930 ’s , when the fed stood by idly as the economy collapsed , is the molding event seared by any american central banker ’s collective consciousness .
not one of his new york times commentaries in the first half of 2013 , when “ austerian ” deficit cutting was taking effect , forecast a major reduction in unemployment , or slower economic growth to brisk rates . by contrast , “ the catastrophic turn toward austerity has destroyed millions of job losses and shattered much of the rest of the world , ” he has argued , with the american congress exposing the american people to “ the imminent threat of severe economic damage from short-term spending cuts . ” as a result , “ full recovery still looks a long way off , ” ” he has warned . “ i am raising all of this because krugman has taken a victory lap in his april of-2014 column on “ the obama recovery . ” “ “ and i ’m beginning to worry that it may never happen . ”
even though many are in trouble , this probably not the best time to start a new car company , either . the group ’s initiative , spearheaded by confucius nen , is called ecars – now ! a small operation in finland , is less a company than a role model for companies that the team hopes to spring up globally . yet , while the market for new cars has slowed dramatically , it could be a good time to start a business replacing coal-powered gasoline engines . borrowing from rogue software movements , maurice sänen and his colleagues want to make the idea and fundamental designs free , and encourage lots of companies everywhere to implement it locally .
compared to these failures , vladimir putin ’s achievements in chechnya look like a height of achievement . but , in my view , there is more to wishful thinking than hardheaded logic among those calling for a “ color revolution . ” consider , for example , that no one has ever devised an precise path to measuring whether and to what degree a government is efficient . the united states , with a us government that can scarcely be described as weak , bungled the war in iraq , and the effects of hurricane katrina . if the criterion for effectiveness is its ability to achieve all kinds of society ’s goals , we are likely never to find any such thing .
these and other funding streams have helped african researchers to develop drought-resistant crops , manufacture vaccines for infectious diseases like ebola , and expand opportunities for science and technology education . unfortunately , many african governments lack the resources to fund the programs that could build on these gains . simply put , a new , more collaborative approach to african science is urgently needed . africa ’s leaders have pooled their science-based resources earlier . in 2003 , the african union and the new partnership for africa ’s development began implementing a continent-wide strategy , as they were working to develop and deploy science and technology for the continent ’s socioeconomic transformation and its integration into the global economy .
london – five years after the collapse of america ’s investment bank lehman brothers in 2008 , the world has yet to address the fundamental cause of the subsequent financial crisis – excess excessive indebtedness . and , once the immediate crisis was contained , we failed to predict just how painful its effects would be . most economists , central bankers and regulators not only failed to foresee the crisis , but also came to believe that financial stability was assured so long as inflation was low and stable . indeed , official forecasting in the spring of 2009 anticipated neither a slow recovery , nor that an incipient crisis , essentially confined to the united states and the united kingdom , would soon fuel a knock-on crisis across the eurozone . and that is why , once contained , economic recovery proceeded much more slowly than anybody expected ( it did not come at all ) .
the big difference now is that the uk will lose its vote on the table . for britons in the “ remain ” camp , such a transition will enable the uk to remain in the eu by all but name . and , for some of those in the “ leave ” camps , this is how to exit without falling off a cliff edge . the third agreement in phase two will center around a roadmap for uk-eu relations by the end of 2021 . this will not be a free-trade agreement , but rather a political declaration about where the two sides are hoping to put an end to it .
the islamic world is riven by disputes between arab and non-arab , sunni , and shia , and salafi extremists and theological moderates . muslims find it hard to see how we can believe that our societies are civilized , when pornography and drunkenness have been displayed openly . al qaeda ’s agenda is as much about creating a new islamic caliphate as it is about waging anti-western jihad against the west . fourth , europeans find it hard to stomach traditional islamic attitudes towards , say , women or gay . to the extent that europeans are christian at all , we view religion as a matter of an individual ’s relations with one of his or her god ; muslims view it as an organizing social principle .
indeed , his 2010 election marked the end of ukraine ’s pro-european orange revolution , which had defeated his efforts to steal the 2004 presidential election and keep ukraine within the russian camp . so why did the eu press for an association agreement , without having been able to offer ukraine anything comparable to what russia had offered ? the answer may be found in europe ’s relations with russia . yanukovych had always been the kremlin ’s ally , but he now seems to be . with the soviet union ’s collapse , russia not only lost its status as a world power ; within europe it was forced to withdraw toward the frontier that it had expanded westminster since peter the great , ultimately , to the elbe and medellín .
the late 1990 ’s produced evidence that low dynamism was linked to weak economic performance , particularly low prosperity . what is needed now for high performance is productive change ? less obviously , a country does not wish for misguided or nonsensical change ; it wants financial-sector investments as productive as it may be . basically , this is productive change , what i call economic dynamism . for personnel to develop , it must be imbedded in stimulating workplaces , with new problems solving , the harder task at being mastered , the added capacity to strive for .
first , because most technology-based monopoly power does not violate existing antitrust laws , regulating it will require new measures that weaken monopolies . new thinking about public-information channels , like social networks , is also needed for regulating new kinds of public information . above all , the public needs to develop a deeper understanding of the economic effects of ai , particularly how technologies that have improved the livelihoods of so many are enriching so few . second , standard views of entrepreneurial income and wealth taxation will have to be tailored to account for it firms ’ monopoly power . and , third , laws meant to protect private information , in order to ensure that they are unable to profit from mastering and manipulating it .
geneva – with france launching its third-tier humanitarian ” military operation in less than many years , this time in the “ core african republic ” – the interventionism that seemed discredited in the wake of the american invasion of iraq – appears to have returned as an accepted norm on international affairs . indeed , decades of relentless intervention have shifted the terms of debate , with the latest operations justified by its achievability , rather than its merits . as france ’s recent actions demonstrate , intervention nowadays requires nothing less than a unilateral decree on humanitarian or counter-terrorism goals , an atmosphere of urgency , and an ambiguous connection to ongoing united nations deliberations . a military operation might also be cited by the united nations security council , but only after being able to significantly influence events on the ground . to understand how this shift has come about is to view why – more often than not – such interventions have failed to advance its goals .
he argues that economists have become blind to catastrophic macro failure , because they mistook the beauty or elegance of theoretical models for truth . the contemporary obsession with reductionist and mechanical models seems to have driven the profession from theory toward ideology , flipping it from touch with the real economy . the simplicity and elegance of micro and macro models makes them a useful guide in explaining the price mechanism , and the equilibrium or imbalance of key aggregate economic variables . but both models are unable to describe or analyze core market actors ’ actual behavior . both coase and krugman bemoan the dereliction of their profession ’s failure to articulate patrimony – a tradition dating at least to adam smith – that valued grand , unifying theory of political economy and moral philosophy .
new york – the issue about how to regulate access to gene sequence data is now cropping up in international debates , including at the world health organization and the united nations food and agriculture organization . perhaps the most prominent forum for such discussions is the conference of the parties to the convention on biological diversity , a major treaty regulating how we approach our approach to biological diversity . the next session ( cop 13 ) will take place during cancún , mexico , early december . participants at peking 13 must focus on the need to protect resource providers ’ rights . after all , such no-strings-attached databases do not only facilitate sharing ; they enable theft .
but , for all but bush – and those left unemployed from the demand lag behind – this is an extraordinary opportunity . as the world ’s more leaderless economy continues to grow , america faces the hardest work of ensuring growth , for it needs to create – not just copy and adapt – new technologies , better-shaped forms of capital , and more productive entrepreneurial organization . demanding growth at the pace that would be seen in any earlier decade as highly satisfactory is suddenly desperately short , and bush is fed up ( with some justice ) for the slack labor markets that have resulted . the remarkable productivity boosts that have been within america ’s grasp will ultimately produce accelerating growth of real gains and real wages , if only american policymakers resist the temptation to pursue politically expedient but economically damaging , measures to “ safeguard ” output and employment . if america can grow as rapidly as it is now , that is very good news for other , less-developed economies , particularly given that one powerful effect of ongoing technological revolutions in computers and communication is to give it a much easier part of integration into the global division of labor now centered
earlier this year , an artificial-meat manufacturer beyond meat celebrated a rapturous stock-market debut . rather than focusing on meeting rising meat demand by scaling up factory-farming operations , as companies have in the past , it – and the like of impossible foods – is working to help cut overall meat consumption , a major driver of climate-change mitigation . to avoid another round of public opposition , they need to compel those platforms to serve the us not only as consumers , but also as business , laborers , and the public . at a time of unprecedented global challenges – including climate change and a high-level degree of inequality – this must include using the unprecedented power of platform leadership to catalyze global-scale solutions . this propels the latest transition at corporate stakeholdership focused not only on scaling up more wisely , but also on becoming smarter about what to scale .
ontario – this december , trade ministers from around the world will converge in buenos aires for the world trade organization ’s eleventh ministerial conference . the wto ’s ministerial gatherings are never an easy issue . some kind of agreement tends to deliver , but only up to a last-minute point , and its language is often rather vague . this time , however , the outcome could become even more disappointing , with delegates unable to reach even a token deal that they can tout with an aggressive marketing campaign . with the united states historically bogged down around the world toward trade liberalization now actively stoking trade tensions , the meeting is set to oppose any other one .
poland , for one , accrued substantial electoral support , partly through its exploitation of past tragedies for political ends . in 1998 , poland introduced such a law . similar norms exist in the czech republic , hungary , latvia , and lithuania . by obscuring the role that local populations played in both nazi and communist crimes , such laws help to advance nationalist narratives , which can prove highly handy for politicians seeking to win popular support . there are more extreme cases than that of poland .
instead , the reform proposals have opted for a mix of higher capital requirements for banking bosses and pre-funding of deposit insurance by a specific bank-like levy . as is often noted , unless banking regulations become identical across frontiers , sufficient scope for “ regulatory arbitrage ” will remain ample . this would allow for capital buffers to be created in good years , which might then draw down in bad years . admittedly , there are difficulties with every proposal to restrict the scope of “ risky ” ” banking , particularly with respect to free capital mobility worldwide . there seems to be little appetite for proposals to conflate capital-adequacy requirements anti-cyclically .
new york – america ’s patient protection and affordable care act , us president barack obama ’s signature 2010 health-care reform , has succeeded in expanding insurance coverage to the millions of americans who might not otherwise have it . and , contrary to the critics ’ warnings , he has not pushed health-care costs ; in reality , there is some hope that the cost curve may finally be bending downward . but whether “ obamacare ” succeeds in curbing excessively high health-care costs is not assured . that will depend on the obama administration ’s other policies , particularly in an area that might seem unrelated : the united states ’ ongoing debate with india over intellectual property . and here , obama seems determined to undermine his own signature reform , owing to pressure from the powerful american pharmaceutical lobby .
likewise , cutting fiscal support ( through government-channeled bank credit ) to northern firms would free up fiscal capacity and enable resources to be redirected to new industries that facilitate service and urban employment ; but this , at least at first , would make matters worse . in fact , robust aggregate demand is always critical to a successful transformation , with the consequences of success . economic historians , notably michael a. bernstein , in his study of the great depression at the united states , showed convincingly that an economy in transition requires robust aggregate demand to pull resources into new industries . slashing the state sector abruptly and expecting transformation through austerity is not the path forward . if both the old and the new industries of the economy find themselves in a slump , capital formation will sputter , investment in upgrading human-capital inflows will decline , and structural adjustment will stall .
london – how radically will digital currencies change our methods of exchange , and how we think of money ? with innovations in digital payments barreling ahead , these questions compound the attention of the world economic forum and other international institutions . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of heightened challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
bangalore – us secretary of state john kerry ’s valiant effort to save the israeli-palestinian peace process is on the verge of a breakdown in failure . while achieving a substantive settlement was always a pipe dream , this latest disappointment will render the united states incapable of preserving even the façade of a “ peace process ” that is all the process , and no peace . and that might not be such a bad thing , either . after all , negotiations are failing for a few reasons , beginning with israel ’s continued colonization of lands occupied in 1967 , despite opposition from the international community , including the us . if anything , israel has been accelerating settlement construction since the most recent round of talks , while deepening its demands , especially concerning israeli troop movements in the jordan valley .
he was subsequently disbarred , and was himself arrested in april 2006 . by that time , aleksanyan fell critically ill with aids , for whom treatment had been withheld . in december 2008 , a moscow city court ratified his release to bail out 50 million rubles ( around $ 1,775,000 at that time ) . her posed a complaint defied , as was her earlier plea , in 2006 , to suspend her sentence , until her two small sons reached the age of 14 – a demand that she was entitled to make under russian law . vasily aleksanyan was chief vice chairman of yukos , and as a lawyer defended khodorkovsky and his partner , platon lebedev , following his death in may 2003 .
moreover , they need it to happen by the end of the year , in order to avoid adding further harm to the big tariff hikes currently scheduled to take effect on december 15 . that timeline requires that both sides start taking symbolic and substantive steps immediately . as a first step , china should propose an agreement using the same text as the earlier 150-page draft , but with revisions to satisfy its three “ red lines ” . specifically , china should remove american provisions for retaining tariffs after the treaty is signed , and for unilaterally reinstating tariffs should the us concludes that china is not honoring the treaty . and it should add a commitment that china does execute the deal in ways that are “ consistent with ” its own constitutional , legislative , and regulatory processes .
princeton – most of today ’s advanced economies have become what they are by traveling the well-worn path of industrialization . the progression of manufacturing industries – from textiles , steel , and automobiles – has emerged from the ashes of traditional artisans and guild regimes , transforming agrarian societies into urban ones . peasants have become factory workers , a process that has underpinned not only an unprecedented rise in economic productivity , but also a wholesale revolution in social and political organization . labour ’s movement led the way in mass politics and , ultimately , toward political democracy . over time , production ceded its room for services .
the targeted killing by the united states by one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . and that shift would occur at a time of heightened challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 that what will weigh on the present for many years to come .
in fact , when compared to other forms of energy , nuclear power ranks higher than that of oil , coal , and natural-gas systems in fatalities , second only to hydroelectric dams . while only a few involved fatalities , those that collectively kill more people than have died in commercial american airline crashes since the end of 1982 . after all , there have been 57 other recent accidents since the chernobyl disaster in 1986 . and , of course , this average does not even include the fukushima catastrophe . another nuclear-power accident index , this one including cost beyond death and property damage , such as wounded or irradiated personnel and identifiers that have not resulted in shutdowns or leaks , documented 956 incidents from 1942 to 2007 .
contrary to some of her predecessors as german chancellor , merkel – who grew up in eastern germany – is wary of russia ’s strategic designs . she is closer to berlin , or even to paris than to washington or new york . this may no longer be so easy , as soon as the u.s. no longer sees itself as a reliable protector and fear of china turns into a kind of panic . at the same time , some people do n’t seem to be overly bothered by this argument . there can be little doubt that russia and china will benefit , at least in the short run , from america ’s abdication of its leadership .
but , if a deal is negotiated well , the end result yields markedly more benefits than costs . the negotiators decided that an unconditional application of justice was impossible . and that would have gone the argument against the colombian accord , which addresses a vast array of social and economic issues , including challenges affecting indigenous communities , gender equality , gay rights , and millions more displaced people over a half-century of war . the deal also included an historic land-reform program . for uribe and his opposition allies , the principal objection to the deal concerns how it addresses the question of transitional justice .
the us , for example , was wrong to invade iraq in 2003 , but it was right to join the fight against isis and save the yazidis from a carnage . it was right to attack the occupied city of mosul , but it was wrong to cut the city in order to undo the process of terrorism . it was also wrong to call for the overthrow of syrian president bashar al-assad ’s regime , because forces opposed to assad lacked the necessary popular support , and the us was not ready to help them win that support . on the contrary , helping the syrian kurds was a good idea , for they were effective fighters with a strong popular support among their own peoples ; and probably would not have survived under isis ’s caliphate . elsewhere in the region , it is right to strengthen south koreans and their own defenses , but clearly wrong to put the threat of a nuclear war at risk .
as communism was thrown into being , so was the concept of a state as an agent around which our collective interests and ambitions could be organized . the trouble began during the end of the cold war , when the collapse of bankrupt communist ideology was complacently interpreted as the market ’s triumph . true , economics was founded on the de-stalwart and enshrined in institutions such as central banks and competition authorities that grossly separate , and that made themselves independent from politics . humanness is derived not from class interests or other sociological attributes , but from market logic , which challenges maximization of self-interest , whether as producer , consumer , or voter . alone has become the ultimate agent of change .
madrid june ’s turkish general election sent a powerful message : turkey ’s secular democracy remains intact . indeed , while some grievances about transparency were missed throughout the campaign process , democracy has prevailed , with an astounding 86 % of eligible voters turn out – a rate rarely seen in europe . with their vote , turkey ’s citizens denied the ruling justice and development party ( akp ) the absolute majority that it needed to amend the constitution . moreover , by giving the peoples ’ democratic party ( hdp ) – which brings together the country ’s long-marginalized kurdish minority and other groups – over 10 % of the vote , they have allowed the party to enter parliament for the first time , with europe-wide representation , rather than only in kurdish regions . the rest of the world – and europe in particular – should take note .
when an app is successful , a refugee has a legitimate right to bring along his or her family members in the same way . germany will have to deal with the consequences of this type of refugee wave for years to come . frequently enough , arab families send their minors to germany in the not-undue hope that they will obtain the right for other family members to follow as they do now . to distribute the burden more equitably , germany has attempted to have a european quota system instituted to allocate applicants among eu member countries . but germany ’s eu partners have rejected this as “ moral imperialism . ”
washington , dc – anyone watching the united states presidential race needs to understand that national opinion polls provide no accurate picture of how the election might turn out to be . every state is awarded to a certain number of votes in an electoral college , depending on the size of its population . in nearly every state , the candidate who wins 50.1 % of the popular vote receives 100 % of its electoral college votes . thanks to america ’s electoral college , it is not who wins the most popular nationwide that counts at the beginning , but which wins in which states . the candidate who crossed the threshold of 1,700 electoral votes will win the presidency .
new york – the prospect that the american federal reserve will start exiting its zero policy rates later this year has fueled growing fear of renewed volatility in emerging economies ’ reserve currencies , bond , and stock markets . indeed , rising interest rates in the united states , and the ensuing likely rise in dollar value , worried , wreak havoc among emerging markets ’ governments , financial institutions , corporations , corporations , and even households . but , though the prospect of the fed raising interest rates now seems likely to generate significant turbulence in major emerging market countries ’ financial markets , the risk of outright crisis and distress is more limited . the worry is understandable : when the fed signaled in may 2013 that it was once again abandoning its quantitative-easing ( qe ) policy , the resulting “ taper tantrum ” sent shock waves through many emerging-market countries ’ financial markets and economies . because all of the past few years have borrowed trillions of dollars , they will now face an increase in the true local-currency value of those debts , while raising american rates higher , thereby raising debt-service costs further .
chirac has compounded his errors over iraq in his approach to a new european commission . faced with american unilateralism , he has failed to promote a realistic , multilateral solution . on the old commission headed by romano prodi , france has become powerfully represented , with pascal lamy holding a trade portfolio . on the other hand , despite being right on the issue of iraq , chirac has become isolated , a sense of isolation that has grown , because he , too , is failing to re-establish satisfactory relations with president bush . indeed , under chirac , france seems increasingly arrogant , a nation convinced of the righteousness of its outlook , and the universality of its model – the very accusations so often levelled opposition from george w. bush ’s america .
and the expanding global population – set to reach more than 9.5 billion by 2050 – will constrain water resources further . urgent action is needed to ensure access to safe , affordable water , and sanitation for all . first , drastic improvements in water-related services – including delivery and sanitation , irrigation and drainage , power , and environment – are needed to improve health outcomes and enable more people to escape poverty . governments should take the lead in making careful management and sustainable use of scarce water resources . water-intensive food and energy production – among others – depends on uninterrupted supplies .
whereas iran ’s leaders have often downplayed the sanctions ’ impact , president mahmoud ahmadinejad recently cited them as the primary culprit behind iran ’s economic turmoil . but iran has faced similar economic hardship before , in the 1980 ’s , oil exports fell significantly amid the country ’s eight-year war with iraq ; and , with global oil prices exceptionally low , they were handled relatively well by default . four factors have rendered the oil-price embargo particularly unbearable today . first , prohibiting dependence on oil makes prices all the more painful when world oil prices spiked . ahmadinejad has benefited from a massive spike in oil prices , stemming from an unprecedented level of earnings .
not only has iran developed its nuclear capabilities while the npt party , the israelis will say ; it has also put israel itself high on its agenda . israel ’s nuclear deterrence is its ultimate defense against an existential threat . israel expects the obama administration not only to appreciate the unique context of its ambiguous nuclear status , but also to recognize that it can not possibly come next in assuring its neighbors or the rest of the world regarding its nuclear program unless the middle east ’s political landscape changes in radically positive ways . across-the-board nuclear equality , after all , can only give rise to iran ’s own nuclear claims . india and pakistan , unlike israel , which has committed itself to a strategy of nuclear opacity , both see themselves as nuclear-weapon states and want the world to accept that status , israel never tested a nuclear weapon , and overwhelmingly accepted the nuclear suppliers group ( nsg ) of guidelines that seek to stem proliferation through the monitoring of nuclear exports .
whatever the ultimate economic effects of china ’s first modest step toward floating its currency , one must admire its strategically brilliance . protectionists in the united states and europe , itching to slap huge punitive tariffs on chinese goods have been caught by flat-footed . they want to retain bathing in press coverage ; but , if they push their china-bashing too far and too quickly , protectionists become perceived as hindering behind-the-scenes negotiations . the genius of china ’s mini-move ( permitting the yuan to rise by 2 % against the dollar ) is that no one can tell when , or what will happen next . but no one knows whether the move by china ’s one-child policy begins at something much larger , since china ’s authorities hint at one day denying the next .
and here obama , in particular , will soon understand that hollande has no intention of bringing sweeping change . on the contrary , his intent will be to appear as a trustworthy and unsurprising partner . hollande is unlikely to be less friendly with america than was sarkozy , regarded by many as france ’s most pro-us president . hollande supported military intervention in libya in 2011 and joined behind his conviction for syrian president bashar al-assad ’s regime . one of his close policy allies recently declared that should the un security council approve military intervention in syria , france “ could envision ” engaging in that effort .
deflation – a steady ongoing fall in prices – has given corporations and consumers powerful incentives to cut spending and hoard cash . it has reduced companies ’ ability and banks to service their debt , and might trigger a major bankruptcies that wreck trust in the financial system , providing further incentives to how . such powerful incentives to hoard labor rather than spend may keep demand low and falling , as well as unemployment high and rising , for a far longer time than even the most laissez-faire-oriented politician or the economist ever dared to tolerate . hence a keynesian solution : use monetary policy ( lower interest rates ) and fiscal policy ( expanded government spending and lowering taxes ) to keep the economy back from ever approaching the precipice where deflation becomes possible . but if this is an issue solved over fifty years ago , why is it haunting us now ?
and , of the 50 million children living outside one ’s own country , or have been internally displaced , more than half have been forcibly uprooted , and are facing new threats of livelihoods and well-being . the un , with aid from countries like sweden and working through a coordinated humanitarian-response system that encompass unicef , is alleviating suffering whenever and wherever it can . but the quantity and complexity of cascading crisis is being tested by which the system never before . this is not a matter of rhetoric ; it is the reality ; it ’s the problem . millions of children are under-exposed and out of school ; millions have witnessed unspeakable brutality ; and millions are at risk of exploitation , abuse , and , worse , fear .
overcoming the formidable challenge that climate change poses to africa will depend on moments of collective focus and clarity . the un climate summit this month should give way to a similar moment , with countries committing to step up their emissions-reduction targets led by the 2015 paris climate agreement to enable them to reach net-zero emissions by mid-century . given their heightened vulnerability , african countries have every incentive to fix the bar high , placing pressure on others to ramp up their own donations . partnerships with national finance and planning ministries , the relevant development-finance institutions , and the private sector will support this process . to that end , a coalition of african countries , backed by the un economic commission for africa and a new climate economics , works to facilitate meaningful , coordinated action that puts the entire continent on a more inclusive , sustainable growth path .
and there can not be a stable economic order – at least not in democratic countries , so long as electorates reject its underpinnings . capitalism could be reconstituted after world war ii because it buttressed three types of regulation : a social security that had served as a principal stabilizer , at least in advanced countries ; keynesian instruments to fight domestic cyclical downturns ; and universal high-wage policies aimed at stimulating universal consumption , without which the genius of capitalism – mass production , it does not work . but a realignment of the wealthy , developed countries around the monetarist policies promoted by economists such as milton friedman , which started around 1970 , broke along with all this . widespread fragility in social relations , most importantly , but not only job , is slowly becoming intolerable to a growing segment of populations in many advanced countries , not only in europe . the rejection of the european union ’s constitutional treaty by french and dutch voters was , according to all evidence , more a rejection of unregulated globalization than was a rejection of europe .
at the same time , in the age of open-mindedness and fake news , the world today can look somewhat unmoored from history . inflation targeting has other effects as well , which seem more fundamental to central bankers ’ thinking . in his influential 1998 book inflation targeting , ben bernanke and his co-authors advised policymakers to announce a target for inflation , because it “ communicates ” the central bank ’s purposes , ” by which a policy would “ minimize uncertainty . ” the announced rate should be strongly positive , they wrote , because if officials tried to talk it up close to zero , any mistake could stem from deflation , which “ might endanger ” the financial system and precipitate economic contraction . that , in turn , might create a sense of true risk .
berkeley – with its ambitious made in made in made in china 2025 strategy , china has made it a clear objective to ensure global economic leadership in high-tech industries . this places it in direct competition with the united states , which is currently leading the way in such industries – in what is being emerging as an undeclared but intensifying cold war over technologies with both commercial operations and military applications . with its investment in such “ dual-use ” technologies , china seek more than to compete globally ; it is also looking for more military and geopolitical power . and it has deployed a wide range of methods – including weak intellectual property ( ip ) protections , technology transfers as a precondition for joint ventures with chinese partners , evasion of its export controls , and regulatory harassment , to mine these technologies from american and other trading partners . china ’s intentions and practices have long been an irritant in sino-american relations .
the berlin wall fell , bringing german reunification and yugoslavia apart . today , a trade war would damage every economy , not every one country in a single state . yet an america that is relatively less dependent on foreign markets , possesses deeper domestic markets , and is generally more economically resilient than other countries , would be doing better than most others in a contracting global economy . already , chinese financial markets have suffered , while those in the us have stood for it . soon after , slovakia ’s “ velvet divorce ” gave way to the czech republic and slovakia , which – together with other central and eastern european countries ( including hungary and poland ) – then anchored themselves firmly in the west by joining nato and the eu .
ratification would also give the us guaranteed access to funding from the european stability mechanism ( esm ) , should we ever need it . the esm is ireland ’s insurance policy , as we work our way out of the bailout program with the “ troika ” ( the european commission , the ecb , and the international monetary fund ) and return to the markets . the treaty would promote stability in the irish economy and help stabilize europe , the us currency . it would boost confidence in iran and enable the us to increase existing flows of inward foreign direct investment . most important , the eu ’s fiscal treaty promises to ensure responsible pan-european budgeting .
in the short term , young companies should view ethics not as marketing gimmick , but as fundamental concerns . when exploring this issue with legislators in several countries over the last few months has become abundantly clear that many do not fully subject themselves to the myriad issues they need to be considered . it is a difficult subject to be addressed , and doing so is impeded by lobbying efforts and incomplete information . there is no comprehensive regulatory case for protecting personal data in europe ; and much of the rest of the world lacks even rudimentary safeguards . all organizations should be investing in corporate ethics officers , or some kind of review process involving people able to evaluate all of the implications of a great-sounding idea .
traditional versus modern , urban versus rural , intellectuals versus peasantry : these divisions are the stuff of political cliché . yet , all too often , the clichés become established on the grounds that they are true . the bangladeshi government ’s sympathizers are closer to shahbag of protesters than to hifazat counter-protesters . but they must navigate a difficult path , given that both of them have significant public-sector support . the young at shahbag comprise mainly urban , educated , and middle classes ; hifazat derives its support mainly from the rural poor .
even the staunchest defenders of the current monetary system will admit that it does n’t work equally for everyone . cryptocurrencies have been around for more than a decade , but none was adopted widely enough to challenge the existing order . with its potential to mobilize more than 2 billion monthly activism , facebook could change that . the true bombshell was yet the sudden realization of the threat posed by digital currencies to the existing monetary system , not at a certain later date , but right now . now that the company has thrown down its semites , governments should use the opportunity to advance a form of a digital currency that serves the public good .
the economic constraints , and the chernobyl catastrophe , helped to spur us action on the world . why did the great recession and the catastrophic meltdown at fukushima daiichi in japan not elicited a similar reaction today ? before becoming soviet leader in 1985 , relations between cold war superpowers hit rock bottom . reagan and i was nonetheless able to create a reservoir of constructive spirit , through continued outreach and face-to-face interaction . what , it seems , is leaders with enemies and vision to build the trust needed to reintroduce nuclear disarmament as the centerpiece of a peaceful global order .
across europe , it is not only british prime minister tony blair that seems to be accused of “ presidentialism ” nowadays . german chancellor gerhard schröder is facing similar charges in germany ’s current electoral campaign . august is a traditional month , when parliaments recess for the summer . it offers a moment to examine why they get feebled . prime minister silvio berlusconi of italy , indeed , does not even enjoy being labeled prime minister .
as long as capital flows remain large relative to liquid assets held by national governments , and easily reversible , the international economy will be hostage to spectacular booms and boom-bust cycles . narrowing national autonomy to formulate a development strategy raises costs , for which developing countries are unlikely to receive adequate rewards . first , the new set of external disciplines is coming hand-in-hand with a fundamentally neo-liberal model of economic development that remains untested , suppressing development strategies that work in the past ; and still others that might work in the future . second , it is doubtful that the new policy agenda will make the international financial system far safer . indeed , by focusing attention on domestic structural reform in the developing world , the risk is that the current approach will lead to complacency on short-term capital inflows , increasing rather than lowering systemic risks .
and all of these clichés were reproduced in coverage of barra ’s appointment at gm . these clichés not only undermine successful women ’s reputations ; in the case of ceos , they also reduce the value of their companies . when all else fails , coverage concentrates so narrowly on the gender base that a woman ’s very leadership is weakened . many news stories about female ceos and other high-achieving women are coded with a set of trustworthy clichés : they lucked at their new roles ( and thus do n’t deserve them ) ; inherited them from male kin or spouses ( and thus do n’t really hold the reins of power ) ; or they will not be there for a long time . for example , cnn covered the story by referring to barra ’s “ knack for climbing the corporate ladder , ” a phrase with some suggestive undertones and one that will never use to the top of , for whom – arguably , hard work , talents , aspirations , and dedication constitute more than a “ knack ” ” ” .
how long this will last is anyone ’s guess . few observers expected that china would transform itself suddenly into a full-fledged democracy following its accession to the world trade organization in 2001 . but the country ’s repressive turn over the last decade has been nonetheless disappointing . state-owned enterprises remain favored , books are being burned , and the communist party of china continues to assert its primacy in every domain of chinese life . dynasties are arriving and going , but , in 2021 , the cpc will mark the centenary of its founding .
more recently , elections in europe ’s postcommunist countries have brought groups into power , whose democratic credentials are dubious , to say the least . this is not to match hamas with any of these internal political forces . for one thing , elections rarely address fundamental problems when elections change . nevertheless , one has to wonder about a winning movement with fairly few elected members in israeli courts and others not likely to obtain permission to enter a country where they were elected , in order to prevent the new parliament from function properly . all of this tell us three things about democracy itself .
that is why lugovoi is being asked for his autograph . the social awareness of homo putinicus , meticulously burnished by tv propagandists , is such that pride in lugovoi ’s achievement and outrage at the infamous campaign rally unleashed against him by those who hate russia can jangle within ordinary russians ’ breast with the slightest degree of dissonance . yet only one such “ patriot ” has been granted the privilege of being allowed to perform this act . this should not be done , of course , to mean that the patriots gushing over lugovoi ’s achievement admitting justice on the british charge remains to be seen . we are evidently confronted with the mystery of the russian thought that has proved so inconvenient to others , so unwieldy to every analytical scalpel , and about whom our slavophiles and eurasians wrote at length .
moreover , given that inequality largely starts at childhood at birth , governments must invest far more in high-quality universal health-care provision and early childhood education . · such investment will require additional domestic resources ; · eliminating barriers to opportunity ; governments must address the root causes of inequality , by identifying and eliminating discriminatory laws ; not least those that actually trade at the bottom . and , because opportunity inequality reduces social mobility from one generation to another , it creates persistent drivers of inequality . only by supporting the construction of human-centric capital from one generation can we ensure that inequalities within a generation go on to next .
spain ’s labor costs have declined substantially since the crisis began . other reforms , particularly those associated with political reform , will be hotly contested . some , it needs to be emphasized . italy has grasped crucially important reforms in areas like pension . greece has slashed its spending by larger amounts , relative to gdp , than any country in europe since world war ii .
two bubbles – property and credit , against which american families borrowed freely – have long since burst . but the aftershocks linger : household-debt inflows during 113 % of disposable personal income in 2012 ( versus 75 % in the pre-three decades of the twentieth century ) , and the personal-saving rate averaged just 3.9 % last year ( versus 7.9 % since 1970 ) . gains in inflation-adjusted personal-consumption expenditures averaged just 0.8 % over the last five years , the most severe and protracted deceleration in the post-world war ii consumer demand growth . understandably fixated on balance-sheet repair , american consumers have not adopted the bait on their monetary and fiscal authorities . instead , they are cutting back on the path of spending cuts , which are taking place .
while his motivations , at least partly funded , may have served as a longing for social justice , perón was in effect bribing beneficiaries to endorse his own rise to power and wealth . argentina became less-reliant on foreign trade , even though a move toward autarky undermined growth , causing the country to lose its status among the world ’s richest . perón ’s rule nationalized banks and railroads , raised minimum wages , and improved living standards , cut the national debt ( for a while at the very least ) , and revitalized the economy . as good as his word was , he was as good . with his magnificent , overhyped wife – a “ woman of the people ” – at his side , perón was able to persuade voters in 1946 that , as president , he would fundamentally transform the country .
in the end , amid street riots and political mayhem , argentina abandoned its currency peg in 2002 . the cap will most likely become even more politically controversial once brazil recovers . it is not hard to imagine the next administration whenever it comes to , perceiving the cap as an obstacle to faster economic growth . the cap ’s defenders will sound unconvincing , for the economics case for it is weak in the absence of an extreme credibility problem . viewed with argentina in mind , brazil ’s spending cap looks problematic , all the more against a backdrop of political tumult that is set to continue for the foreseeable future .
part of this can be explained by misunderstandings about the relationship between stock market prices and economic growth . here is one message from markets worth pondering , even for non-investors : political confidence may be at the low ebb in europe ; firms and consumers may be shell-shocked by the latest recession and gloomy about the future ; but judging by stock-market behavior in the years ahead more resembles the stable and prosperous 1950s and 1960s , than the crisis-ridden decades of 1973 did in 1989 . a strange conventional wisdom developed in the us in the inflationary years and 1980s : that strong economic growth and falling unemployment were bad for share prices . prosperity , it was felt , would incite inflation , provoking a high level of interest rates , triggering a stock-market rout . while experts spent the last two years propounding this thesis quietly restored an older , more common-sense rule : prosperity is good for profits , and hence home good .
elsewhere , the nigerian chamber of commerce , industry , mines , and agriculture ( naccima ) have used its agenda over a number of years to coordinate economic reform . in 1999 , this task assumed critical importance because of bringing the country into democracy . a legislative advisory program is yet another instrument business can use to influence public policy . * sound economic analysis and background papers readily available for technocrats and others to study ; * sound economic analysis and background papers readily available for technocrats and others to study ;
as a result , its medicine has done very little to save the economy . the currencies have collapsed and the banking sector has collapsed . the imf has mobilized massive amounts of money ( $ 118 billion in each ) to indonesia , korea , and thailand to pay back foreign creditors trying to withdraw their funds . now the imf acknowledges that thailand will shrink by about three percentage points . the imf predicts that thailand and the other will achieve positive growth in 1998 ( three percentage points in thailand ’s case , for example ) .
nevertheless , highlighting obama ’s capacity to get things done abroad is more than an attempt to distraction ; he also sends the message that the domestic-policy impasse is not his fault . the obama administration knows an iron law of american politics , “ it ’s the economy , stupid ” – like any else . election-year tactic aside , american voters are right in their countries . obama has been performing much better at us foreign policy than he did in domestic politics , which is all the more surprising given the weakness that he has been addressing : an “ america that has lost its moral authority , its military invincibility , and its credibility as an economic role models . ” so it is to expect plenty of foreign-policy news in the months ahead .
but it is just one facet of europe ’s urgent need to import people from africa and asia . europeans will also see dismantling their welfare states and social-security systems ; a cherished “ european model ” of pensions , health care , and unemployment benefits risks being superseded by the despised and widely dreaded “ america model . ” the root cause of all of these developments is europe ’s population shrinkage . this is not , needless to say , because europeans crave america ’s rigors of the less weirted social conditions , but because it is ’s only way that european governments can remain afloat financially . the societies of the world ’s “ demographic time bomb ” that economic analysts have been discussing for a decade or more are now exploding .
they feel reaffirmed in their conviction that for most western governments , outrage over iran ’s terrorist activities counts on less than the lure of entrepreneurship . and they watch with galiana on how european , japan , and america , rather than acting together , display the weakness of the disunity . should a rogue state be allowed to get away with its provocations ? the trouble is : in most cases , it will . the instruments of coercion that states dispose of brief to their military interventions are imperfectly efficient , and to be remotely efficient , claim a degree of international solidarity that is generated only in exceptional circumstances .
london – a flawed understanding of what drive economic growth has emerged as the gravest threat to european recovery . european policymakers obsess about national “ competitiveness , ” ” and genuinely seem to think that prosperity is synonymous with trade surpluses . this largely helps to explain why germany is routinely cited as an example of a strong , “ competitive ” economy . but economic growth , even among traditionally export-led economies , is being driven by productivity growth rather than the capacity to capture an increasing share of global market markets . meanwhile , whereas imports must , of course , fund exports , focusing the price of trade competitiveness draws attention away from europe ’s underlying problems , very weak productivity growth .
as a result , china generates 69 % of the world ’s electric-car battery cells ; the united states accounts for 15 % ( at tesla ’s “ gigafactory ” “ gigafactory ” cells in nevada ) ; and europe accounts for just 4 % . and an increasingly important battery cells include the overall value of electric cars , the stronger the agglomeration effects will be . as a result , china generates 69 % of the world ’s electric-car battery cells ; the united states accounts for 15 % ( at tesla , a gigafactory ” case in nevada ) ; and europe is home to just 4 % . nonetheless , europe could still develop life-producing features through old electronics ; develop new cobalt-saving processes ; and discover alternative sophisticated mineral deposits . such a momentous transformation would be a momentous transformation .
but breakthrough tech firms like apple , facebook , and twitter also depend on those with access to well-funded education systems . policymakers in europe ( and elsewhere ) need to adjust their thinking – especially their forms of fiscal thought – to place the people first . governments that empower it to maximize human well-being end up not only stimulating higher economic growth , but also nurturing healthier politics . governments need massive reduction of bureaucratic red tape , so that entrepreneurs can take even more risks . and , while there is increasing american tech for good ” industry in europe , it will succeed only if it supports up-to-date infrastructure , which generally requires public-sector outlays .
all countries will need to give ; no country can be expected to shoulder the burden alone . at the same time , the initiative will have to come from the top if the case is to make it work within individual countries for more open markets and for assistance to those facing adjustment . in developing countries , pro-trade voices could help to turn the discussion toward opportunities for global integration , rather than emphasizing exemptions . pro-trade forces can talk up in the political process , but they can not . it is untenable , for example , in rich countries , that farm interests accounting for less than 4 % of employment , effectively blocking agreement to open up new markets to services and ngos that account for more than 90 % of employment .
iran ’s hawks might believe that their country is invincible , but fears are mounting that regional overreach could trigger a long list of dangerous consequences . true , iran ’s prompt shia-led government support has been partly intended to preempt competition from regional adversaries . but iranian critics of intervention seem to believe that there is a middle way . inter-sectarian dialogue in iraq , and a regional compromise with turkey and the gulf states does not necessarily translate into a loss of iranian influence . iran has already countenanced maliki ’s removal in favor of haider al-abadi ; and , if a wider policy reconsideration is needed to quell the threat , so be it .
in houston , authorities were ready for harvey partly because of the lessons learned from hurricane katrina , which devastated new orleans in 2005 . that storm caused 1,833 deaths , compared to around 88 in harvard . the impact of the lessons being learned in india is even more striking . in october 2013 , residents of attempting cyclone phailin responded early to the arrival of cyclone phailin . by the time the storms made landfall , many people had already evacuated .
but this , too , is unlikely in the near term . for catalan separatists , that means they now face what the political scientist hans morgenthau termed the “ a-c paradox of nationalism . ” given that the status quo is inherently unstable , and that of independence impossible , many believe that the only solution is more fiscal autonomy for catalonia . if catalonia wants to leave spain , why should n’t barcelona have the right to leave catalonia ? and why would n’t today , as oppressed ” catalans become tomorrow ’s oppressors to block it from happening ?
even that futile scenario might be optimistic , as it presupposes that talks drag down the ground – an impossible feat , as long as israel continues its illegal construction of settlements in the occupied palestinian territories . such activities are not only unjust ; they amount to the un security council ’s violation of 2334 , adopted nearly unanimous last year ( the us , then led by barack obama , abstained ) . that resolution has demanded , almost instantly , that israel promptly and shut down all settlement activity on the occupied palestinian territories , including east jerusalem ’s – activities that amount to a “ flagrant violation under international law . ” any deal between israelis and palestinians will require deep concessions by both sides – the concessions that leaders on both sides will have to persuade their respective publics to accept . trump ’s son-in-law and adviser , jared kushner , who has tasked himself with settling the conflict , and trump administration ’s chief economic negotiator on the issue , jason greenblatt , seems to understand
in doing so , however , china does not openly call into question the fundamentals of the liberal order . the chinese authorities are well aware of how much their country has benefited from the becoming deeply integrated into the global economy . and they are unprepared to shoulder the bedrock of their domestic legitimacy : economic growth . the belt and road initiative ( bri ) , formerly called one belt , one road ) – which xi christened “ the century ” project to date – is a true reflection of china ’s strategic choices to strengthen commercial links with the rest of eurasia and africa , taking advantage of the chance to accumulate “ soft power . ” the remarkable communiqué from the world ’s leaders participating at the bri forum in beijing last month committed more than 30 countries and international organizations to foster the growth of “ peace , justice , social cohesion , inclusiveness , democracy , good governance , the rule of law , human rights , gender equality , ” and empowering women .
part iii of the blocked constitutional treaty is just the compendium of existing eu treaties , which , because those treaties will remain in force regardless of whether they are part of a new “ document ” – that is , they may be decoupled from the rest . the question , then , is whether the new leaders , early as next month , have been successful at adopting the vital institutional reforms that the enlarged union demands . part ii of the stalled paper , the charter of fundamental rights , can be deferred . to be sure , this would be painful , because , as eu bureaucracies gain more authority , the eu ’s democratic deficit will widen without explicitly defining fundamental rights . the best way forward will be to focus on some essentials .
this is true of european nations . as the world changes and opens across borders of nations and cultures that values will govern the twenty-first century ? forget , short-term electoral politics in the us , there , or it does here . but for europe , there is a more profound cause : the transatlantic alliance is necessary today than ever , and it is far stronger with britain in europe and europe as an equal partner with america . over the longer term , this essentially constitutes an alliance of values : liberty , democracy , and the rule of law .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . after all , iran and the us were already in war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . after all , iran and the us have been in war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . similarly , a few months ago , two us police vice ministers , secretary of transportation , and , a former chief of state petroleum corporation , all carried out to court charges selling state assets to private companies at losses . taken together , these cases point to the much-heralded high level of state capture – a form of corruption rife with former soviet-bloc countries , in which powerful private actors use insiders to gain control over their public institutions and assets .
a minority government , whatever its composition – would not necessarily be a bad thing . it would then be able to contain merkel ’s ’s red-green affinity . a minority coalition that included the csu would force the csu to compromise on migration and climate policy , which would be unnecessary otherwise , given the spd ’s inability , die linke ( the left ) , and the greens to block legislation . and merkel herself would attempt to avoid a minority coalition with the fdp to refrain from becoming dependent on it . the fdp , for its part , would like to participate in such a government for precisely that reason .
china is still a low-income country with per capita gdp of just $ 14,000 , about one fourth of that in the united states . though beijing and shanghai are relatively prosperous , much of the world ’s poverty still leaves . it is revealing that to reach its five-year plan ’s target of halving poverty by 2020 – which entails reducing the number of poor people by 55 million – the poverty line is defined as just $ 354 per year , or less than a dollar per day . chinese corporations ’ high-grade debt levels could be a source of financial instability , even though a few officials stressed that it is not a concern . one government minister at the cdf noted that the one million chinese tourists who leave abroad last year used their credit cards to buy about $ 1 billion of goods they can not get at home ( while noting the irony that some european and american branded goods actually create in china ) .
yet those who believe that the ccp can defy both the domestic degenerative dynamics of autocracy , and the historic record of failed one-party regimes , might benefit from reading leon trotsky who knew something of revolutions . dictatorships are perceived to be indestructible before falling , trotsky reminds us , but their demise is viewed as inevitable once they are toppled . a different explanation accounts for the fear of contemplating the unknowable disorder . but the record of democratic transitions since 1974 suggests that regime change in china is unlikely to materialize . ccp rule may not last , but the alternative – sovereign default and civil chaos – may be far worse than the status quo .
after moving on to manufacture car audio equipment , liu jiren , neusoft ’s ceo , began hearing complaints by local hospitals about the high costs of specialized x-rays , mri , ultrasound , and lahore ning machinery ( such as those that were made by ge , philips , siemens , and toshiba ) . liu became aware that neusoft could link standard intel chips and its own imaging software to a range of digital sensors . suddenly , the new enterprise was born . neusoft began as a low-cost competitor to the netscape corporation . neusoft ’s taxi looks like little personal computers with sensors that are tethered .
princeton – by now , everyone knows that germany is calling the shots not only in the european union , but throughout all of europe . inside germany , there have been endless debates about german identity , what one historian after another called the continual disputes over what should be germany . viewed from a political perspective , however , postwar west germany – and , subsequently , a reunified germany – was utterly predictable : never opposed to the west ; always to a more europe . now , the “ republic of berlin ” is extremely secure about its own identity , and , seemingly at sea , in its dealings with the world . there are structural reasons for this change , and we all know it .
whereas only around 49 % of manufacturing startups and 37 % of information startups survive for four or more years , those that do have managed to generate breakthroughs innovations . startup firms exemplify the potential benefits of risk-taking . tom watson , jr. , who led ibm through decades of powering growth , is well known for channeling brilliant blunders . as he put it , we should have the courage to take risks when they are thoughtful , … we need to forgive mistakes made because someone tried to act aggressively in a company ’s interest . and the oversight that warped kelvin ’s estimate – the possibility that fluid move could efficiently transportation warmth inside earth – has proved critical to understanding plate tectonics and continental drift .
the targeted killing by the united states by one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us are already in war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in the selection of this year , it is that what happens in 2020 that what will weigh on the present for many years to come . the biggest threat comes from netanyahu ’s plan , which began when he became president .
russia resent the mounting economic insecurity brought about by sanctions on trump ’s predecessor , barack obama , initiated following russia ’s annexation of crimea in 2014 ( a move that initially bolstered putin ’s plummeting approval ratings ) . popular discontent in russia has also inflamed the us authorities ’ widely reviled pension reform , bearing in mind , that involves increasing the retirement age . now , more than ever , what putin needs is america ’s friendship . although he might be reelected president in a landslide in march , his approval ratings have run from plummeted to around 45 % . he rooted for trump ( but of course not encroaching on trump ’s behalf ) because they shared the desire to improve bilateral relations .
in south korea , the imf has urged the sale of peasant banks to american investors , despite the fact that the koreans were managing their own economy impressively over the last four decades with superior growth , more stability , and without the systemic scandals that marked us financial markets with such frequency . in some instances , american firms purchased the banks , kept to them until korea recovered , and then re-sold them , reaping billions in capital gains . in its rush to have westerners buy the banks , the imf forgotten one detail : ensuring that south korea was able to recapture at least a fraction of those gains through taxation . whether american investors had more banking expertise in emerging markets may be debatable ; that , after all , they have had more expertise at tax avoidance , not . to be sure , wall street ( whose interests the american treasury represents ) gains from capital market liberalization : they make money as capital inflows in , because it flows out , and in restructuring that occurs in the resulting havoc .
princeton – on january 1 , derek parfit , one of the greatest philosophers of my generation , died . just over a year earlier , in a poll on the lead-up to philosophy web site , parfit cast his body as the single most important living anglophone philosopher . of all of the philosophers i knew since i began studying the topic more than 50 years ago , parfit was the closest thing to the genius . parfit was not a household name ; it was a man who , he said , was not a german woman . getting into the philosophical argument with him was like playing chess with a grandmaster : he saw every response i could make to his arguments , came to mind several possible replies , knowing full objections to every reply , as did the best counters to those objections .
even a basic exquisite test like a cat ’s cat scan would require transport to yet another regional hospital . equally harmful are government sensitivity to its own policy failures , and the stigma attached to a disease that is often sexually transmitted . on paper , the hospital appears well staffed and adequately equipped ; but on my desks and rounds , i found the halls and wards , deserted , and barren . few of the world ’s therapeutic and diagnostic options have been accessible to the people as well . but under-equipped hospitals may not be the biggest barrier to controlling china ’s aids crisis .
but average incomes in the west bank and gaza will remain far lower under the latter strategy than they is in a situation that israeli labor markets are gradually reopened for palestinian labor . that confirms the enormous short - welfare cost to palestinian society of curtailing palestinian employees ’ access to israeli labor market . combining the outcomes of these two simulations suggests that large palestinian labor flows to israel cut the palestinian economy ’s capacity to export goods by putting upward pressure on wages , undermining competitiveness . such simulations also suggest that continued reliance on labor exports tends to produce less growth potential for the palestinian economy than does a development strategy based on exporting goods . exactly what type of trade policies might do to boost exports of goods rather than of labor ?
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of heightened challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . could a blockchain-based cryptocurrency be the remedy for just what ails zimbabwe ? addis ababa , when zimbabwe 's president robert mugabe was deposed in november 2017 , after 30 years in power , many hoped that the economic decline that he oversaw would quickly be reversed . but a year and a half later , the us economy shows little sign of recovery , owing to the ongoing currency crises .
china believes that it has found its own model for development and modernization , and its rulers regard the games by similar to that of nazis and leonid brezhnev just as a vehicle to “ sell ” its model to a global audience . apparently , the chinese became politically tone-deaf in their choice of an architect whose name carried such dark historical connotations . but , in that case , when the son borrows essential features of his father ’s architectural code and serves a regime that seeks to exploit the games for some of the same reasons that animated hitler , is that he will not willingly reflecting those sins ? the speer ’s name probably did not matter to the officials who chose it . totalitarian regimes – nazi , the soviets in the 1980 ’s , and now china ’s – desire to host the olympics as a way to signal global superiority .
the road to square this apparent circle is by noting that we love our motherland not because of a misplaced sense of ethnic or racial supremacy , but because it stands for lofty and universal values . these are examples of what the philosopher jürgen habermas has called a form of constitutional patriotism ( others denounced as civic patriotism ) . this philosophical position has practical implications , too . in the recent dutch election , liberals might argue that they respect immigration rights because respect and tolerance are traditional dutch values , of which any dutch patriot can take pride . macron can proudly call himself a french patriot , because france surrendered world liberté , égalité , and fraternité .
to succeed , the icc will need to overcome strong resistance , owing not just to its dictators and warlords , but even from its elected leaders , above all us president donald trump . if the icc is to fulfill the role that it has created , it can neither bow to such pressure nor allow its deficient performance to continue . pursuing such investigations effectively and without delaying action would restore the icc ’s credibility , reinforcing its capacity to fulfill its intended role as a powerful force for international justice . eu leaders – particularly its chief prosecutor , andrei horan attorney fatou bensouda , – must take recent criticism as incentivizing , demonstrating that they are up to the task . in april , at a time when the icc held up its investigations of war crimes in afghanistan , including any one that may have perpetrated american power – the trump administration revoked the tribunal ’s chief prosecutor ’s visa .
new york – capital-account regulations have been at the heart of global financial debates for two years . the reasons are clear : since the world has experienced a “ multi-speed recovery , ” as the international monetary fund has been pointing it , slow-growth advanced countries maintain very low interest rates and other expansionary monetary policies , while rapidly growth emerging-market economies are unwinding the expansionary policies they adopted during the recessionary period . this asymmetry has spurred huge capital flows from the former to the latter , arguably further behind . emerging economies worry that this flood of capital will drive their currencies ’ exchange rates further , in addition to fueling current-account deficits and asset bubbles , to which past experience has taught them is a sure recipe for future crises . compounding the problem is one of expansionary policy to the united states , which has the world ’s largest financial sector and issues paramount global currencies .
according to the world health organization , it causes blindness in some 250,000-500,000 preschool children each year , roughly half of whom will die in just 12 months . likewise , several countries lack vitamin a deficiency rates during pregnancy and childbirth . moore ’s mortality figures seem to have been high , but there is no doubting the severity of vitamin a deficiency among children , particularly in parts of africa and southeast asia . the deficiency also increases sensitivity to diseases like measles , and continues to be a major cause of death in young children , though one that falls short of what is caused by vaccination . greenpeace , together with other organizations opposed to the use of genetically modified organisms ( gmos ) , has campaigned against the introduction of the “ carotene ” beta carotene , which is converted in the human body into vitamin a. likewise , in india , in the philippines , where the body is leading in vitamin a. but there is no doubting the severity of vitamin a deficiency among children , particularly in parts of
so what lessons does history need to teach us about our current global economic predicament ? in 1829 , john stuart mill made the key intellectual leap in figuring out how to fight what he called “ general gluts . ” mill saw that the excess demand for some specific bundling of assets in financial markets was mirrored by the excess supply of goods and services in product markets , which , in turn , generated the excess supply of workers in labor markets . at the same time , if you relieved excess demand for financial assets , you cured an excess supply of both goods and services ( your economy-wide shortfalls ) and the excess supply of labor ( mass unemployment ) . the implication of this was clear .
it is the gap seen in areas as diverse as health care , education , and combating climate change . of course , not even billionaires can solve the world ’s problems . that is why chan zuckerberg initiative was designed for maximum flexibility , allowing funds to be rolled back into nonprofits , channeled toward private investment , or used to aid policy debates . likewise , the bec has pledged to boost the work of others by adopting “ a flexible approach ” to early stages , giving the seed , angel , and string investment , with the expectation that as soon as these investments are de-risking , traditional commercial capital will invest in the afterrun . no single actor – as a government , a college research laboratory , an ngo , an entrepreneur , or a group of funders can solve today ’s genuinely large problems alone .
trumpism taps into this sense of national mortality ; here is someone who thinks he can do something about it . the goal is not just to “ attract home ” america ’s jobs , but to create a system that expands american dominance . the liberal view about asia ’s rise is that it makes the world a fairer and more just place where a person ’s economic destiny does n’t depend quite on where they are supposed to have been born . but a more cynical view permeates populist rationales , namely that in its excessive adherence to globalism , the us has been soaking up seeds of its own brand of political and economic ruin . american populists , perhaps inspired by the writings of thomas piketty , seem unimpressed by the fact that globalization has led hundreds of millions of desperately poor people in china and india into the global middle class .
ultimately , north korea ’s stalinist government will rebuff any effort that encroaches on isolation that it needs to remain in power . one approach would enhance deterrence by bolstering conventional south korean and us forces , and reintroducing tactical nuclear weapons in the south . but more conventional forces would add little to the capable forces already on earth , and bringing nuclear weapons back to south korea would compel both sides to reassure them ( and offshore america ’s naval nuclear forces , already pack enough punch enough to reinforce deterrence ) . additional approach would seek to normalize diplomacy , on the presumption that this might enhance communication , thereby further diminishing the nuclear threat . but , in such a scenario , north korea could hold relations hostage to such close-knit demands by withdrawing american forces from the region , and economically and energy-helping to prop up the regime .
in both countries , the far right lacked the breeding ground that it has elsewhere . thus , the populist backlash in latin america – in brazil , bolivia , ecuador , and , most disastrously , venezuela – has taken a left-wing form . the story is similar , in the top two exceptions to a right-wing resurgence in europe – greece and spain . in spain , the majority of migrants until recently came from culturally similar latin american countries . in greece , the main policy fault line has been the austerity policies imposed by european institutions and the international monetary fund .
on december 19 , 2003 , libya formally renounced all wmd efforts . this was coupled with critical demand : no deal without america ’s commitment to eschew regime change . british and american negotiators also met privately with libyan counterparts to resolve the 1988 bombing of pan am flight 103 over lockerbie , scotland , and other issues of terrorism . in the quid pro quo that preceded , qaddafi agreed to eliminate his nascent nuclear program , in exchange , to pariah status . eight years later , chased down by a then-infant drone , and french airstrikes , qaddafi met his demise .
botswana ’s amazing annual per capita income growth , from around 13 % over the past decade , has been accompanied by a drop from almost six per woman to less than four . why is rapid population growth bad for a country ’s standard of living ? a growing population dilutes not only the accumulation of physical capital , but also of human capital . the math is simple : more people mean that a ( on average ) all get less . the quality of children in poor households goes down as their quantity rises , because impoverished families with many children are unable to invest enough in education to ensure that future adults benefit from a key determinant of economic success .
that does not mean that activists should abandon the cause . but it does mean comprehending that even democracy has many rules , ideally rules that a majority has chosen but are not mostly chosen ; those rules generally reflect compromises among elected representatives , who can argue and negotiate within the person , reflect the overall preferences of those who elected them . like it or not , they can not do this , as a motherhood-child brigade ; they need to elect leaders who can speak for and negotiate for them . that may sound rather like the old system . the modernizers need to form a coherent force , and most likely a political party , rather than simply relying on the crowd ’s wisdom ( and good behavior ) to govern the country .
rising incomes ; growing health-care , childcare and elder care in aging societies ; and investment in infrastructure , energy , and technology creates new job opportunities . given the sector-level and on-the-job distribution of such opportunities , women may remain slightly better positioned to pursue them . this modest benefits for women reflects the robust growth that is expected in sectors like health care , where women are well-represented . indeed , in many countries , women account for more than 70 % of the health-care and social-assistance workforce ; and such a sector could comprise one-quarter of women ’s future job opportunities ( manufacturing will account for a similar share of men ’s potential job gains ) . assuming that current gender occupations and sectoral patterns hold current gender patterns , women could gain access to 20 % more jobs than they do today , compared to about 19 % for men .
new york – for a while , i myself once witnessed putin ’s courting culture . it was a perennial year , ’s eve , during a concert at the newly opened house of music in moscow . directly across the aisle from me , putin sat between the one-time hindu dissident cellist and conductor mirrstislav rostropovich , and his equally notorious wife , the opera diva galina vishnevskaya . russia ’s leader was like a kid in a candy store , thrilled to be surrounded by these cultural icons , the former exiles no less . and icons were obviously flattered by putin ’s adoration ( and their closeness to power ) .
in an attempt to revive growth in a difficult global environment and buffer exports against the impact of the asian financial crisis , the chinese government relaxing monetary and fiscal policies beginning in november 1997 . but gdp growth soon began to deteriorate rapidly . by 1998 , when cpi inflation began to take hold , producer prices were already on a downward trajectory for eight months , remaining negative by a total of 51 months with cpi growth beginning to recover , after more than 39 months . an obvious lesson is that the government was supposed to step down to loosening earlier , and more insightfully . it was too little , however , too late .
while blanchard focuses on rates regarding low-risk government bonds , piketty is worrying with a return to riskier capital investments . so , too , has we now moved from piketty ’s r > g to the world ’s blanchard g ? if so , could their views be reconciled to them ? the answer , again , is no and yes . the outlook for piketty and blanchard may actually be reconciled , for they are talking about different interest rates .
by contrast , compared to their likely future losses , european banks have lately been raising relatively little capital , and much of that was in the form of creative accounting rather than truly loss-absorbing shareholder equity . perhaps the risk that a greek sovereign-debt restructuring would lead to a financial meltdown has always been minimal , and quiescent markets have come to expect it . but , in that case , why has all of the fuss been so far ? the banks have not failed , and it is not a sign of hemorrhaging dominos . but that is not because the banks have been preparing themselves by raising more capital .
in the scandinavian countries , as opposed to , say , germany and the us , governments , rather than individual firms , play for the majority social benefits . moreover , the benefits are generous enough to ensure that short joblessness drives workers to sell their homes or even cars . and , rather than solving every type of economically created private-sector problem , laid-off workers may concentrate on locating new , more future-oriented jobs . that way , the economically irrational lock-in effect whereby workers simply can not afford to change jobs is being avoided . the system protects not only the “ unemployed ” who can continue to service their mortgages and interests ; it is indirectly the banks , because their loans to households are eventually repaid even in recession .
but , having suffered currency and capital-account crises with greater openness , many emerging-market economies still feel compelled to accumulate huge reserves in order to protect themselves in the face of greater global financial volatility . the irony is that this advice comes after much of their former productive capacity has disappeared . while the failure of financial globalization to boost growth has exacerbated volatility and instability , it has exacerbated volatility and instability . meanwhile , the domestic “ political space ” for economic recovery has been narrowing since the crisis . public-sector investment and basic social protection can help turn this around by creating millions of jobs .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . after all , iran and the us are already in war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . one aspect of this supposedly moral and cultural decline concerns the family : “ to attack the institution of the family , to respect it with contempt , or to cast doubt on its important role , ” ” ” the pope and the grand imam regulation , “ are among the most threatening evils of our era ’s ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” document asserts that a family is a fundamental nucleus for mankind and mankind ” ” and “ humanizing ” is vital in bringing children into the world , raising them , educating them , and providing them with solid moral formation and domestic security .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . addis ababa , with nearly 60 % of its population below the age of 25 , africa is the world ’s youngest region . unless youth socioeconomic and political engagement is addressed , achieving many of the un 's sustainable development goals ( sdgs ) will be impossible . yet it is widely recognized that the young often leave behind . they frequently face inadequate economic opportunities , and perhaps even when they are excluded socially or politically .
russia ’s economic decline has heightened its anxiety about the rise of china . as the economist recently pointed out , russians are worrying about becoming an alliance a junior partner – more dependent on china than they are on china . while trade has soared , investment lags , and russia ranks only one-tenth among china ’s export markets . according to fatidan yujun of fudan university , “ the single most important relationship for the us is the one with america . ” in the nineteenth century , no country outperforms more land from china than russia did , and the current demographic situation in the far east – where russians make up six million bpd and a population on china ’s border amounts to more than 120 million – fuels anxieties in moscow .
wolf then snarls , if not bogle ’s , it was his father ; after that , he promptly moves in action . wolf ’s “ justifications ” ” ” ” ” ” ” for his evil activism was a luxury . first , he scolds plummer , because he muddying his drinking water ( even though the thugs were the upstream ) . florence – in phaedrus ’s well-known wind fable and bodb , wolf easily managed to consume a lamb with no word , but prefers to set up its “ reasons ” for ” them . then , he argues that the belgian had called him bad name ( yet the blackb was only six months old ) .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of heightened challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . arlington , virginia , – the election has left one of the world ’s largest countries deeply divided , handing the presidency to military-loving , minority-bullying , media-bashing , media-firebrand promising to smash a corrupt establishment . i am not talking about the 2016 us presidential election , which brought donald trump into power , but rather brazil 's 2018 presidential election won by the so-called trump tropics , jair bolsonaro , who was formally inaugurated on january 1 .
she then quickly proceeded to give a long celebratory speech on the heroism of america ’s soldiers “ battling for freedom ” abroad . this latest surge of american populism is financed by some extremely wealthy men , including the few oil billionaires named david and charles koch , who favor cutting taxes for the wealthy and abolishing government subsidies for the poor , such as social security and president barack obama ’s health-care plan . that agenda might seem selfish , albeit understandable , from the standpoint of an oil-billionaire ’s point of view . but then there was something strange about an entire event , just as there is something strange about the tea party movement itself . this seemed to be an odd , and to many insulting , of transition : from king lear ’s great plea to civil rights to palin ’s sentimental clichés about the military .
while the level of their religious commitment varies , they share a powerful , emotional attachment to a belief that gives a particular reason for the followers of franco i considerable political leverage . latin america will no doubt be one of francis ’s top priorities . the beginning of his papacy is perceived as populist governments in a vulnerable situation , hit hard by chávez ’s recent death . of course , all of them have their own identities and strengths , but they will miss out on protecting chávez ’s ’s ’s global standing , just as his subsidies have risen . moreover , they dominate countries where catholics hold an overwhelming majority .
we must lead the world , through deed and ” by example . but obama can not do that alone , and so far neither the american public nor the american congress seems committed to reconnecting it with its moral compass . not even the revelations by the former us intelligence contractor edward snowden that no one is exempted from the american surveillance can demand a new approach . recognizing this should be unacceptable , for example , so that the us congress block releasing 86 guantánamo bay detainees cleared the way by a committee of national-security officials . the answer to the second major question shaping the future of the world – whether china will regain its own economic momentum – also seems “ no , ” at least in the short term , with most experts agreeing that china ’s export-import – and investment-led growth model has all but exhausted its potential .
still , substantive and remarkable progress has been made , to a large extent , all in recent years . genotyping can now be accomplished by 20 minutes , and over time will get further into the process . this has paved the way for next-generation pharmacies . moreover , someday we will be able to know – via sequencing entire genome – about rarer genomic variations that are correlated with treatment reactions or spillover effects . to fill the prescription for a drug-enforcement drug with a well-known pharmacogenomic profile , a customer can acquire rapid genotyping to identify the appropriate doses , drug , or predilection for serious side-effects .
very large banks in small territories with small-scale governments are vulnerable as well . the financial crisis provided a stark answer about where the greatest competitive advantages lie . from banks ’ perspective , the most obvious lesson has been that of a strong national government to bear the potential costs of rescue . the u.s. is large enough to handle behemoths like bank of america or citigroup . it is no longer best subject to the most favorable regulatory regime in the world , but to a one where the state has its deepest pockets .
the number of species known to have expired between 1,500 and 1800 is rising , as taxonomists describe new species from skeletal remains to be found in caves , for example , where bones are survivors . we have so far failed to do comparable analyses about the fortunes of the caribbean and the indian ocean islands following the first human contact , but the large numbers of extinctions have occurred there , too . the searches are far from complete . early european exploration may probably continued this rapidly pace of extinction . linneaus invented the modern process of naming species in the mid-1700 ’s , although naming did not get around until the peace following napoleon bonaparte ’s defeat at 1815 .
syria , iraq , yemen , and libya are all coping with the mix of civilian and proxy wars . and europe is already confronting many important challenges , including russian aggression toward ukraine , brexit , the rise of pan-arab populism and nationalism , and low economic-growth rates . the islamic state ( isis ) may be losing its territorial dimension ; but , together with other groups , it will continue to pose an unprecedented terrorist threat for years to arrive . the plight of millions of refugees marks not only a humanitarian tragedy , but also the economic and strategic boon to the countries of the region and europe . the iran nuclear pact , at best , manages one aspect of iranian power and only for a limited duration .
these movements created the space for forward-thinking politicians to take action . nevertheless , the climate crisis continues to grow , demonstrating that we still have a long way to go . this year alone , catastrophicheat waves have wreaked havoc on north africa , europe , japan , pakistan , australia , and argentina . deadly wildfires have taken life and destroyed billions of dollars of asset worth in greece , sweden , the united states , and russia . droughts have hit hard in kenya and somalia ; and afghanistan and south africa have suffered major water shortages .
the stakes for both africa and the us are high . the decisions that we make now will have implications for generations to come . a strong , prosperous africa with a productive and expanding middle class is in america ’s interest , and a strong partnership with the americas will be vital to africa ’s continued growth and development . this is the beginning of an important dialogue , but it is only a start . we owe it to our descendants – and to silicon savannah entrepreneurs already leading the charge , to get it right .
paris – some countries naturally find themselves at ease with both the concepts and realities of strategic power . such was clearly the case of france under louis xiv , a sun king in the seventeenth century , and such is the case today in china , whose leadership is comfortable wielding classical europe ’s balance-of-power games . yet , to understand india ’s political and diplomatic relationship with the outside world , the most enlightening comparison is with america in 1920 . in economic terms , india ’s confidence has been boosted precisely by the way the western world now looks with a mix of respectability and bravado : “ what kind of deals could i strike with such an emerging market , whose young population will soon be the biggest of any country in the world ? ” in the meantime , india is clearly in a different category .
these people favor government intervention because they believe that , left to their own devices , markets will not ensure fairness , and may generate more inequality . views of social mobility are not consistent across the political spectrum , or across geographic regions . in both the us and europe , for example , people who call themselves “ conservative ” on matters of economic policy believe that equal opportunity for all children exist , and free-market economies in their countries fairly . opposing views holds true for those who call themselves economically “ liberal . ” an even more striking pattern is that americans are overly optimistic about social mobility in parts of the country , where actual mobility is low – including the southeastern georgian states of georgia , alabama , virginia , north carolina , and south carolina .
once upon a time , many relatively small department-store chains and other headquarters retailers spread over the course of american and outlets , in just a few towns . these headquarters brought up incomes in their cities by supplying back-office functions to their webs . but online consolidation , driven partly by walmart and amazonia , has dealt a deathblow to many of these companies . grocer , a coffee shop , and barber go out of business , turning the place into a ghost town . the distortions can be caused not just by an industrial closure ; they are by and large .
the first scenario is unlikely , for three reasons . first , fiscally conservative congressional republicans will object to reckless increases in government debt . the republicans ’ proposed tax cuts would create a $ 2 trillion revenue-to-gdp ratio over the next decade , and they can not plug that hole with the revenue-raising retirement savings of their us health-care reform plan , or the $ 1.2 trillion they might be expected from the bat . the house republicans must now pick between passing their tax cuts ( and adding $ 2 trillion to us government debt ) and pursuing much more modest reform . the first scenario is unlikely , for three reasons .
as long as a country saves more but investment remains unchanged , so borrows less from ( or lends more to ) the rest of the world . such resilience will be tested over the longer run , though owing to fiscal and external imbalances that were unaffected by data revision . its net export position and current-account balances , for that matter , improves . part of the analytical attractiveness of national income accounts is that they add up . but that has not happened in this case , either .
first , when it comes to addressing climate change , what matters is that you look like something similar . the 2015 paris climate agreement is a magnificent example of this . new analysis shows that , in fact , only 17 countries – including the likes of algeria and samoa – are also meeting their pledges , most of which they have promised very little . countries that manage that may get away with massing the data . countries made grandiose commitment to keeping the global temperature rise to well below 2º celsius above preindustrial levels , yet all of their promises together add up to less than 1 % of what ’s needed .
that strategy faltered , owing partly to american intransigence under president george w. bush and abandoned when the 2009 copenhagen conference failed to produce a treaty to replace the expiring the kyoto protocol ( which the u.s. never signed ) . instead , the copenhagen accord merely asked eu countries for voluntary pledges to cut their emissions by making specific amounts . the thawing , siberian permafrost , unleashed vast quantities of methane . as a result , vast areas of our planet , currently home to billions of people , could become unlivable . earlier unfccc signatories ’ decision to reach legally binding emission-reduction agreements , at least for the major industrialized countries that host most greenhouse gases now in the atmosphere .
collectively , during russian prime minister dmitri medvedev ’s presidency , he called for the creation of a pan-european mechanism for preemptive diplomacy and mandatory consultations in the event of a threat to any nation ’s security . had such a mechanism been established , the worst events in ukraine could have been averted . yet the fault also must be shared with europe ’s entire political class , the institutions of civil-society groups , and the media themselves . while i am by nature an optimist , i must admit that it is extremely difficult not to be pessimistic as 2014 comes close to being . of course , political leaders are blaming the eu for translating these and other european ideas into the archives .
but , as europe ’s leaders increasingly recognize , it is time to hit the accelerator . for example , my own home country , denmark , which was tasked with guiding energy talks at the un summit , has integrated vast amounts of wind power into its electricity grid . sweden , which runs industrial workstream with india , has spawned the world ’s first fossil-fuel-free steel plant . and progress is hardly confined to northern europe : romania is boasting europe its largest onshore wind farm ; poland is producing electric buses ; and austria is leading the way toward green buildings . when it comes to solutions , europe is ahead of the curve .
one result of the deal is paradoxical-sounding “ familiarity with difference . ” because immigrants participate in america ’s economic and political arenas , americans are used to various kinds of people , and so distinguish those differences that might hurt the country from those that will not . prejudice has tended to fall as participation increases . tolerance of other humans ’ religion is the price paid for tolerance of one ’s own . it has been in nobody ’s interest to disturb this live-and-let-live pragmatism over very long periods .
this keeps small firms in poor nations and regions from reaching their full potential . at the same time , entrepreneurial energies are already there : visits to tiniest cities in the poorest country on market day , and you will see the private sector in action . that is why , when un secretary general kofi annan and the un development program mark pach brown has asked the us to lead the new commission on the private sector and development , we have agreed . if small firms could expand beyond village square , they could drive their countries ’ growth better than any aid agency . based on our own experiences – in mexico , which has opened itself to foreign investment and trade , and in canada , a leading aid donor agencies and a major source of private investment in developing countries – we are convinced that many of these problems can be identified , isolated and fixed .
and yet , even as he does , kim ’s own penchant for drama – from firing missiles over japan to pursuing frequent purges at home – suggests that he knows how to command the stage and bring trump to the table . moreover , his ego-stroking personal letters to trump shows that he is having a good fix on the president ’s psyche . so far , he has proven highly effective at keeping bromance alive , ahead of a summit on track . regardless of when it comes to a second summit , the north korean regime will continue to reap dividend at america ’s expense in the meantime . there is no guarantee that he will not repeat that gambit .
amid surging inequality , frustration with pervasive corruption has intensified . in 2018 , kazakhstan ranked 124th out of 180 countries in transparency international ’s corruption perceptions index . all of this has put emigration increasingly appealing , particularly to young people , raising the specter of a “ brain drain . ” at the same time , it has reversed warmth toward simmering social unrest , which has boiled over since nazarbayev ’s resignation ( who may well have been intended specifically to preempt popular protests ) . meanwhile , the state fails to deliver basic security : an olympic ice-skating medalist , denis 10 , was assassinated at broad secondary-school enrollment center in kazakhstan , almaty , for its efforts to prevent his car mirrors from being stolen .
calling for job creation for saudis may seem like a riches problem . but whenever the kingdom has attempted to cut public-sector hiring , its unemployment rate has risen . under the current incentives system , the authorities ’ plans for privatizing companies and improving civil-service productivity will , in fact , destroy jobs occupied by the saudis . some would argue that all of the kingdom needs to do is substitute saudi for foreigners in existing positions . but simple substitution will not do ; on the contrary , it will not .
so , too , is the notion that even a single cryptocurrency might replace fiat money . the whole point about cash is that it enables parties to transact without having to barter . but for the money to have value and generate economies of scale , only so many currencies can operate simultaneously . the idea that hundreds of cryptocurrencies could viably operate together not just contradicts a very concept of money ; it is utterly idiotic . in the us , the reason that we do n’t use euros or yen across dollars is obvious : doing so would make the economy far less efficient .
a cool war threatens to undermine these efforts , because confronting the us at the negotiating table requires china to reinforce its own position above all . this means ensuring that disruptions caused by america ’s short-termism do not pose a long-term systemic threat to china , even as they harm the global economy as a whole . minimizing the fallout will require both sides to recognize that , in an interconnected world , efforts to strengthen their own positions will become self-defeating if they undermine global stability and us dynamism . the unfolding sino-american trade war is far less cut and dry than even the cold war was . the us trade war has threw this lesson into sharp relief .
our price-and-rebate mechanism is being inspired by the eu ’s own “ bonus/malus ” scheme in france , in which eu buyers of new cars are taxed , or given a bonus , depending on a vehicle of co2 emissions . in our system , a country exceeding the global average per capita emissions would pay a specified amount on every ton of co2 ( or its equivalent ) over a set threshold . studies ahead of the paris conference suggest that international cooperation could allow the world to permit rapid reductions in emissions of greenhouse gases . they also highlight knock-on advantages that take quick action on climate change might have , including a reduction in local pollution , greater energy and food security , and more faster innovation . to accelerate move toward a low-carbon economy , an international agreement must apply to all countries ; include a common and consistent systems for monitoring , reporting , and verification ; and a strong global economic incentive .
by purchasing government bonds for cash , a central bank can meet the demand and push down the money price . i was also right to say that all but a diminutive , un-led fringe of economists endorsed central-bank guarantees of system stability to avert the risk of a collapse of the payments system from becoming a first-order boost to demand for cash to unnatural levels . by purchasing government bonds on cash , a central bank can meet the demand and push down the money price . when no excess demand on money is forthcoming , there will be no excess supply of bonds and equities that underpin and finance the economy ’s productive capital . expansionary monetary policy through the standard open-market operations of the central bank is thus a first item on a checklist of what to do in a financial crisis .
the eastward expansion of nato and the european union , they contend , was an unnecessary provocation . in fact , none other than george kennan 's leadership , the originator of america 's cold war-style containment strategy , opposed nato enlargement in the 1990s on precisely those grounds . even mikhail gorbachev , on the 25th anniversary of the demise of the wall , accused the west of not holding on to the promises that it made in 1989 instead of recoiling from russia 's weakening ” ” ” nature of the 1990 's to assert “ monopolistic leadership and global domination , " ” including through nato 's eu enlargement . there are obvious limits to this theory , almost all but a threat . for starters , this is rooted in the claim that at the height of the berlin wall and the soviet union 's disintegration , the west promised that there would be no nato expansion in sight .
the us market ’s share of global equity valuations is at its highest level ever – a remarkable statistic given to america ’s declining share of global economic activity . the international monetary fund , too , has gotten its act together . even though its october world economic outlook presents a positive picture of global growth , the imf , doubtless unsure about the panglossian view offered in june 2006 , now warns that the world economy is “ vulnerable ” to abrupt tightening of us financial conditions ” and that “ equity valuations ” appear stretched in some markets . against this background , “ some ” is imf code for the united states . for its part , how should we view all of these warnings ?
given that the us dollar had trading at about $ 1.1250 against the euro on that day , this indicates that the us dollar is actually about 6 % weaker than it should be . now , of course , 6 % is not an especially important difference , and that finding may entail nothing at all . i have also developed what i have called the ifo adjusted gsdeer , which corrects the “ equilibrium ” rate at the ongoing economic cycle , by accounting for factors like the actual interest-rate differential between america and the eurozone . it therefore was the equilibrium gsdeer for the eurodollar exchange rate as defined by june 7 : $ 1,0590 . which is the best policy toward making comparisons is a matter of debate , as is the effects of quantitative easing ; but i see no good reason not to use the fed ’s ten-year government bond differential , adjusted for inflationary expectations .
despite a messy bond , this fresh start generated an impressive turnaround in the past . the party arrived in a crashing halt in 2009 , when two sharif , private banks speeded global investment banks to accelerate borrowing repayments – hoping to get their money back . scrambling to prop up its highly-tended private banks with capital injections and nationalizations gave up and decided to pull the plug . the banks went on to the back of their lending , with lenders taking large “ haircuts ” ( reductions in principal value ) . but – and herein lies – with its debts written off , a banking system now recapitalized and its capacity to support economic growth .
london – a window of opportunity opened by a newfound consensus that education is critical to meeting the un ’s sustainable development goals ( sdgs ) , including reducing maternal and infant mortality rates , spurring job creation , improving quality of life , and opening our thinking to gender equality issues . but , most important , such is educating the world ’s young people . in the drc , for example , even after all this time , we are reaching just 8 % of the 760,000 children . only $ 230 per person annually for basic needs like water , food , and shelter ; less than $ 10 per child goes toward education . when a girl receives a book up an insurgent with an guns in pakistan , when teenage mothers exiled from south sudan in neighboring uganda make education for their children ’s top priority , and when lights seen from space might include children huddled by candlelight trying to read and study , we know that education ’s moment has arrived .
during the last two decades , the world grew accustomed to us-led international coalitions for world war ii in the middle east . president jimmy carter used it to conclude the 1978 camp david accords , to establish diplomatic relations between egypt and israel . and secretary of state james baker used it to transcend israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir ’s recalcitrance during the 1991 madrid peace conference . if the us can not provide that today , it must relinquish its monopoly on international conflict resolution . it is time for america to recognize that it can not resolve the israeli-palestinian conflict , defuse the iranian nuclear dispute , change north korea ’s behavior , or halt the syrian civil war on its own .
if the world does not , the un , nato , and the european union will discredit themselves just as much as the humanitarian values they use to justify their `` humanitarian '' interventions . so , before the anti-terror campaign seeks other terrorist bases to destroy , it should eliminate terror in a place governed by the un itself . kosovo is a territory far lower than afghanistan , and it is one that should . if the world does not , the un , nato , and the european union discredit itself , as does the humanitarian values that it uses to justify its `` humanitarian '' interventions . by appeasing terrorists in this way , the world 's most powerful states give a green light to terrorists not only in the balkans but around the world .
the view that the individual gene might account for a full biological trait is as old as genetics itself . as time passes and scientific knowledge accumulated – much of it from the fruit fly – the true complexity of the relationship between genes and traits became starkly apparent . if the link between fruit fly genes and behavioral behavior is so complex , could it really be so with humans ? whether describing the genes to extract flowers in pea plant , or the shape of the fruit fly ’s wings , geneticists at the beginning of the last century believed every gene that has governed one singular characteristic . soon , several early geneticists , the founders of the eugenics movement , made the odious assertion that “ licentiousness , ” “ shiftlessness , ” and “ criminality ” may all account for individual genes as well .
among other things , there is a struggle between individual people over control of scarce resources . like boxing and poker , it is the soft , restrained , private form of warfare . and , after all , one can not possibly have a definitive , utopian society without having a finite , scientifically sound theory of human behavior , combined with some mad few scientists or philosophes to preside over the matter . the trouble is that , regardless of how “ scientifically ” these new beliefs have been formulated , they remain false . military strategists have known for centuries that there is and can be , no final science of war .
paris – earlier this week , following days of strained debates , the new government in athens reached an agreement with its eurozone creditors , comprising a prompt reform package and a four-month extension of its financial-assistance program . but , despite europe ’s collective sigh of relief , the compromise does not exclude the need for further tough negotiations on a new , debt-financed investment program that is expected to be introduced by the end of june . in any negotiation , a key variable influencing the protagonists ’ behavior , thereby the result , is what failure to achieve an agreement would cost each one . in this scenario , the issue involves the costs of greece ’s exit ( “ grexit ” ) from the eurozone – a prospect that has been widely discussed in the media throughout the recent negotiations , with considerable speculation about the attitude of various players , particularly the greek and german governments . from greece ’s perspective , leaving the euro would be highly disruptive , which explains why there is very little support in greece .
but electoral flaws are not always the whole picture , either . consider kazakhstan , where five million people cast their ballots in spain for its lower house of parliament . the western media judged the election a failure , and the opposition was asking everyone . indeed , cnn reported it “ neither equitable nor free . ” elections in countries that were strangers to democracy are never pretty much , because afghanistan ’s recent vote demonstrated , and as any us election in iraq likely would be .
it is largely a matter of providing public goods : basic infrastructure like roads , bridges , ports , and power , as well as access to education and basic health care . satisfying the demand for such goods is itself a boon for growth . but , also , a sound highway creates tremendous additional activity , as trade increases among connected areas , with myriad businesses , restaurants , and hotels spring along the way . and , unlike many equally poor countries , india already has very powerful entrepreneurial qualities , an reasonably large and well-educated , urban middle class , and a host of world-class corporations that can be enlisted in efforts to provide these public goods . just as india distanced itself from a stultifying license raj in the 1990 ’s , successive governments understood the imperative to boost economic growth , so much so that the bharatiya janata party ( bjp ) challenged the 2004 elections on a pro-development platform , encapsulated in the slogan , “ india shining ” ” ” ” ” ” ” “ india shrift .
its infrastructure , both material and intellectual , grew poorer , and its economic structure became unfit to meet new challenges , owing both to firm size and their specialization in traditional sectors , as well as to low educational and r & d levels and d. it took almost nothing to address those deficiencies , despite being the first government in italy ’s history to survive a full-five-year electoral term . but nothing was done to deregulate product markets , or to give the proper incentives to restructuring , while privatization came to a halt . with an unassailable parliamentary majority , italy could have pursued coherent supply-side reforms , even at the risk of some initial unpopularity . a few reforms were belatedly adopted : timid pension intervention and another increase in labor-market flexibility .
yet , despite its civil wars , malnutrition , and the anguish of the aids epidemic , something remarkable is happening in black africa : the stealthy rise of a high-technology sector . consider what is taking place on the few floors of a single high office building in accra , ghana ’s capital . there some 1,500 africans process america ’s health-insurance claims – working around the clock , on three shifts . if not quite representing an “ silicon valley , ” these high-tech shoots nonetheless can and must be nurtured if africa is to thrive . africans talk english , type at least 50 words per minute on a computer , take paper data supplied by america ’s health insurers through electronic form , put it into new forms of digital , and ship them back to the american system .
the eu was conceived as an attempt to regain european sovereignty peacefully by pooling the national interests of european nation-states . the goal of such efforts was always to prevent a relapse into the old system of power rivalries , reciprocal alliances , and hegemonic butting . yet the westphalian system was torn apart by the two world wars of the first half of the twentieth century – both , in fact , european wars for world domination . when the guns fell silent in 1945 , the europeans – even the victorious european union ’s european allies – effectively lost their sovereignty . the westphalian it system was replaced by the cold war bipolar order wherein sovereignty rested with the two non-european nuclear powers : the united states and the soviet union .
in october and november , the ecb will announce the results of its banking stress tests . if the ecb grossly understates the risks , its credibility as a regulator will be badly tarnished . one hopes that the ecb will be forthright about the risks . because many banks hold the bulk of the eurozone ’s sovereign debt , the output will depend heavily on how the ecb assesses sovereign risk . if this is more forthright about risk , there is the possibility that some periphery countries might have difficulty plugging the spreads and would require assistance from the north .
instead , researchers should be using fully representative testing groups , while taking care to adhere to rigorous privacy and accountability protocols . such initiatives , of course , cost money , too . venture capitalists now spend , say , $ 3.2 billion annually on global health research and development . they should expand the scope of their investment to include ai-enabled mental-health-care delivery . they might also fund competitions between socially conscious technology entrepreneurs to spur further innovation in this area .
consider , for example , the harvard university ’s growth lab , which i founded in 2006 , after two highly fulfilling policy engagements in el salvador and south africa . since then , us organizations have been working on more than three dozen countries and regions . in some respects , the lab looks a bit like a teaching and research hospital . yet a teaching-hospital model could also be effective on public policy . it focuses both on research and on the clinical work of serving “ patients , ” ” ” or on governments in our circumstances .
as one historian of us entrepreneurship put it , “ the americans ” were pirates , too . the u.s. acquired patent laws , but guaranteed only american citizens . and the u.s. had as much respect for british industrialists ’ trade secrets , as china today did for american intellectual-property rights . the fledgling textile mills of the new england was desperate for technology and did its best to steal british designs and smuggle in skilled british crafsmen . and the u.s. certainly had as much respect for british industrialists ’ trade secrets as china today did for american intellectual-property rights .
making all of these changes will be difficult , to say the world . but if the world moves in this direction , something along the lines of a new conclave of political global power will begin to take shape as the beginnings of a new international system . the second great change – ie , the end of global ideological division – also raises difficult , and perhaps more complicated , issues . yes , one may debate the “ third way ” or the two and a half way , or the three and a half way , but those are essentially peripheral debates . today a basic , even on occasion a ritualistic , consensus about the notion that democracy and human rights constitute the departure of any political organization , with some form of free markets , with varying degrees of private-sector social accountability , as the foundation for economic activity .
developing the bhe would require a new private-sector investment platform that is structured to give bespoke returns for its diverse participants . it would offer returns near those yielded to equity investment , but with some risk offsetting its long-standing nature . risk would become further mitigated through the participation of large , influential investors , including sovereign-wealth funds ( swfs ) , pension funds , and perhaps international financial institutions . public contributions , likely back-loaded the multilateral lenders , would , in turn , provide projects with something closer to sovereign-risk profiles . finally , the previously regulated nature of cash flows would allow for better pre-defined return structures than traditional private or public investors can offer .
to be sure , some foreign central banks have signed currency-swap agreements with china , and even holding modest amounts of their currency in their reserve portfolios . and countries ’ desire to maintain good relations with china , owing to its rising economic power , can not be discounted . but such actions may indicate less a mark over the renminbi ’s inevitable march toward global dominance than a low-cost bet on its likely emergence as a widely adopted international currency . capital inflows , which will undoubtedly grow in the years ahead , are driven largely by investors ’ appetite for diversification and high-yield yield , rather than the country ’s image as a sanctuary from troubled financial markets elsewhere , notably given that china ’s financial markets are comparatively underdeveloped and beset by sizable risks . depending on how china soon opens its capital account and develops its financial markets , the renminbi could become a significant reserve currency in the near future .
to be sure , there are other us-mexican agenda issues ranging from intelligence sharing and counter-terrorism to regional crises like venezuela , nicaragua , and , perhaps , cuba . but trump cares more about security than he does about venezuelan president nicolás maduro or nicaragua ’s daniel ortega , leaving the real rupture here to be avoided . peasants in guerrero cultivate amaza for the cartels , rather than for their own livelihood . amlo will almost certainly sustain mexican cooperation on the first set of issues , while receding to mexico ’s traditional and archaic anti-european stance on regional diplomacy . and america ’s drug enforcement administration will not look benignly on any backtracking on previous mexican presidents ’ pledges to continue waging an expensive , bloody , and futile war of drug-choice in mexico .
in may 2015 , enabled by a new constitution , burundi ’s then-president , pierre nkurunziza , won a third term amid violent protests . the same year , similar protests erupted in the democratic republic of congo , following the enactment of a bill that would enable president recep tayyip kabila to prolong his tenure . the au should demonstrate leadership on this front , pursuing interventions that buttress constitutional democracy , consistent with his agenda 2063 . on its heels of sudan ’s success , it must stand against “ constitutional coups , ” conducted by presidents , because it sets itself more firmly as a force for peace and democratic governance in africa . the au has defied military coups in the past .
higher birth rates in the us , the uk , and france reflect the large pool of immigrant families in each country . but increasing the number of immigrant workers will not necessarily generate rising birth rates . indeed , fertility rates among immigrants are typically higher than in native-born european or north american families . an aging population contributes to europe ’s poor economic performance . for example , germany has large guest workers , but very few settle there with its families ; most leave its children within its home homeland .
reporting has barely led a ripple in the american media . impunity is widespread – indeed , most corporate crimes go un-noted . the few that are noticed typically end with a slumber on the wrists , with the company – meaning its shareholders – picking up a modest fine . of course , none of the whatsoever for cheney have been reported . the true culprits at the top rarely need to worry .
moreover , a minority of subjects who thought that it was right to push the stranger off the footbridge took longer to achieve that judgment than those who said that doing so would be wrong . why would our judgments and our emotions vary this way ? for most of our evolutionary history , human beings – and our primate forebears – were living in tiny groups , in which violence could be inflicted only on an up-front and personal scale , by hitting , choking , or using a stick or stone as a club . greene discovered that people asked to take a moral judgment about , like pushing the strangers off the footbridge , revealed increased activity in nutrient-associated areas . this was not the case with people asked to make judgments about relatively “ impersonal ” violations like throwing a switch .
in today ’s more complicated legal environment , it will take years to negotiate trade deals with the eu , and then with other partners . meanwhile , investors have every reason to adopt a wait-and-see attitude . after all , political uncertainty is high , with no prospect for may ’s general election to resolve it anytime soon . in 1949 , britain was able to find itself on the same footing , with a trade deficit vis-à-vis the united states and weak investor confidence . in september of that year , sterling re-erupted again , as it had 18 years earlier .
once in power , the erbakan tempered his tone and actions . in fact , power led refah to compromise rather than to the extremes . turkey continued to allow the u.s.-led “ operation provides comfort ” against iraq in order to assert turkish bases . it remained a vital member of nato , and it remained so . relations with israel really improved with more visits by ranking turkish officials than ever before – a move orchestrated by miller but accepted by refah .
new york – in 1893 , playwright george bernard shaw , an ardent proponent of women ’s suffrage and equality , wrote ms. warren of the profession , a play whose title , in the proprietor of several brothels , includes the proprietor . its opening in london in 1902 was staged in a tiny theater “ club , ” ” ostensibly confined to nato members . its performance during the new york times in 1905 was raided by the police . playing justifies her profitable exploitation of prostitution of feminist standpoint . the play is not salacious and containing no coarse language , yet it was nonetheless eight years , before finally possible .
nairobi/paris – africa is on the brink of an unemployment crisis portends profound economic , political , and social ramifications . while the african development bank ( afdb ) hopes to create 25 million new jobs in less than a decade through its youth employment at the african initiative , it is not at all clear where these opportunities will come from . every year , some 13 million young people look for work in africa , yet only around three million of them are finding work . the continent ’s youthful population is projected to double by 2050 , to 840 million by 2050 , and yet africa ’s youth and universities generate enough graduates with the technological skills to thrive in tomorrow ’s workplaces . but a crisis can be thrown off , and one part of the solutions might be as straightforward as turning on the lights .
what they have not calculated is that the palestinian people ’s dignity and national pride , just like any other nation , will insist that they be treated accordingly . but no palestinian , arab , or responsible international leader would ever embrace such a design , as has been made clear in the messages delivered by world leaders to the trump administration . let us be clear : the two-state solution does not imply accommodating israeli settlements ’ illegal realities ; rather , it means ending that colonial enterprise . refusing to mention a two-state solution does , trump ’s team ’s statements go in a different direction , more in line with israel ’s official position : one state and two systems . now , plans are afoot to “ promote a future of peace and security in the middle east ” through the us-polish conference in warsaw , in which the palestinians are not going to participate .
nor does israel appear to be much in its own jewish identity relative to the holocaust ’s memory than anything else we have . admittedly , he has never embraced israel as a political cause , as so many other american jewish politicians have . nor does israel appear to be much in its own jewish identity , bound more by the memory of the holocaust than by anything else . in any case , it is not as though avoiding talk about israel is a departure for sanders . despite having commented on the matter of none that is required , it has generally been upkeep on issues concerning the country .
for trump , as for under president calvin coolidge , the chief business of the american people is business . king salman has embraced trump ’s war against terrorism and anti-iran rhetoric , and he has expressed support for an israeli-palestinian peace . nothing was said of human rights ; much less of women ’s rights ; and the word “ democracy ” never went through trump ’s lips . the deal seems to have entered the foundation of a wonderful new friendships , between the world ’s oldest democracy and its most repressive islamic regime . instead , trump completed an agreement to provide $ 110 billion in advanced arming to saudi arabia , which in turn will invest heavily in america ’s economy .
because gold was an ounce of $ 400 in both years , holding gold did nothing to ameliorate the fall in the dollar ’s value . a japanese investor holding dollar equities or real estate could instead offset the exchange-rate loss through purchases of yen futures . the same goes for a euro-based investor that would not gain by holding gold but might offset the dollar ’s decline via purchases of european futures . tips , or their equivalent of some other governments , provides safe inflation hedges , and explicit currency futures can offset exchange-rate risk . in short , there are better ways than gold to hedge the inflationary risk and exchange-rate risk .
munich – because china has pegged its undervalued currency , the renminbi , to the us dollar , every weakening dollar in the wake of america ’s financial crisis has also implied a weakening of the renminbi vis-à-vis other world currencies . the united states is now taking drastic moves against china and is making provisions for a trade war . but is china really right to blame for fueling a global currency war ? the central banks of south korea , brazil , taiwan , japan , australia , japan , switzerland , and many other countries are now buying us dollars to shield their own currencies against revaluation and hence for defending their exports . europe , too , became nervous after the euro-dollar exchange rate rose to over $ 1.40 , far beyond the purchasing power parity ( ppp ) rates of $ 1.17 .
but while such sources may offer some valuable insights , they fail to meet the standards of methodological rigor and conceptual clarity upon which an informed public conversation is supposed to draw . for these reasons , researchers , media , and civil-society organizations need to gain a stronger voice . it is critical that we develop an internationally recognized set of indicators and methods for monitoring income and wealth . to that end , an especially important milestone will come with revision , due over the next three years to the united nations ’ national-account system . government statistical agencies should publish the income and wealth levels of the top 1 % , 0.1 % , and 0.001 % , as well as effective taxes that such groups pay .
moreover , trump and congressional republican presidents are learning that replacing obamacare is easier said than done . health-care reform , as hillary clinton might have told them , is fearsomely complicated . what has become increasingly obvious is that the name changes ( “ trumpcare , ” ” ” anyone ? ) and one can anticipate that a republican plan covering fewer people ; but much of the substance remains the same . eliminating federal subsidies for health-insurance coverage under the affordable care act ( “ obamacare ” ) would save the government slightly more than $ 100 billion annually , roughly 3 % of federal spending . but , for the most part , such subsidies are paid what they fall short of their dedicated tax .
during cardoso ’s tenure , he privatized the telecoms , a national mining society , and a part of the electric sector . social inequalities heightened and brazil last year suffered blackouts and electricity rationing as well . beginning with his campaign , lula showed power , particularly after the right-wingers , roseana sarney , hit and burned when the federal police and prosecutors discovered the cash injections into her husband ’s office . at the end , mr. sarney was absolved of all charges , but not soon enough to save her candidacy , either . inflation fell , but joblessness , public debt , and urban abuse rose sharply .
( for all of these interventions , the figures are likely to be rather smaller , because the charity impact calculator is n’t meant for such huge sums , and so fails to consider that the costs will rise as soon as those who are easiest to reach have been fulfilled . ) for $ 450 million , one could also buy 180 million bed nets , enough to protect 271 million people from malaria . in case you think that people receive such a windfall will spend it on sugary drinks , gambling , or prostitution , an independent evaluation showed that they do n’t . give directly ’s monetary transfers enhance recipients ’ food security , for mental health , and for assets . when , say , a person chooses to buy from a “ salvator mundi ” rather than restore sight to nine million people , what will say about their values ?
but such challenges will lessen over time , and , as fewer mail sets in command , a higher share will both want and respond . to begin with , you can simply set the price at , say , $ 1 , together with the list of those allowed to reach you for free . at an early stage , there will be lots of glitches , beginning with the people you know whom you have multiple email address , old friends not on your current white listing , or so on . likewise , mail managers will handle incoming emails and facebook , linkedin , and other requests described by the recipient to collect credit card information from senders ( or , more likely , charge their paypal accounts or navigate other payment systems as they emerge ) . the recipient is unlikely to see the complexities ; much of that will be handled in hindsight .
in business and immigration , for example , bannon ’s acquired philosophy aligned with trump ’s own political opportunism ( trump ’s more “ liberal , often democrat-backing ” ) . and bannon has intruded on us foreign policy by getting himself into the national security council for some time , pending two of the generals in trump ’s administration , national security adviser h. mcmaster , and john kelly ( now chief of staff ) , have apparently removed it . ( bannon was believed to be behind the recent push to force netanyahu out of mcdonald ’s , mostly by suggesting that he is “ anti-israel . ” ) it was a mistake to see bannon as pygmalion to trump ’s galatea , or , as some have did , as trump ’s white house chief of rasputin . bannon reinforced the nationalist inclination that led trump to overrule his own daughter , ivanka , and his economic advisers by withdrawing from the paris climate agreement .
meanwhile , demand in much of europe is weak , ruling out the economic growth needed to service its debts and offer hope for the country ’s 25 million unemployed . in the meantime , demand in much of europe is weak , ruling out the economic growth needed to service its debts , and offering hope for the country ’s 25 million unemployed . they mistrust each other too heavily to collaborate , and each another to work together . no country of taxpayers wanted to feel as though they are paying for others ’ excesses : the single currency has not imposed shared responsibility . so creditor countries , led by germany , have struggled to do the bare minimum needed to keep the euro vibrant , while borrowers grumbled impotently about germany ’s insistence on fiscal austerity .
according to a study by goldman sachs , france would have to depreciate by about 20 % relative to the eurozone average and about 35 % vis-à-vis germany to restore external-debt sustainability . in return , the french economy suffers because its customers in southern europe are in trouble . the cheap credit ushered in by the fed in an inflationary economic bubble in southern europe that burst when the financial crisis hit . the ecb and the international community – in particular the international monetary fund – struggled to cope with the crisis by replacing a dearth of private capital with public credit . the credit terms worsened abruptly , and what was left was a highly overpriced of economies that has become an excessive reliance on foreign financing .
if i want to know whether it was possible that napoleon met kant , i pick up volumes k and n , and discover that napoleon was born in 1769 and died in 1821 , and that kant was born in 1724 and died in 1804 . the same happens even when you read philosophy , say , husserl . maybe what is being done ? encyclopedias never intended to be read cover . the author opens at their fist page and follows a plethora of questions , for you to see how it reaches their conclusions .
from one perspective , this is just another case of emotion defeating economic logic . but our emotions are those of algorithms , bequeathed through evolution , by which we make most of our decisions , including political appointees ; economic cost-benefit analysis that does not connect to our emotional compass does not move the needle . at the heart of this issue is the sense of us . what will it mean to be an eu member , nigeria , iraq , afghanistan , or any other political entity ? letting them in might produce a better team is not always true of our team .
both islam and democracy are widely presumed to be bitter antagonists . a close study of the world ’s 47 muslim-majority states shows , yet again , that islam and democracy can and do co-exist . this conclusion is based on comparing muslim countries ’ “ electoral competitiveness . ” the real gap is narrower : it is the arab world , not an islam that seems at loggerheads with democracy . if a government sprang out of reasonably fair elections , and an elected government manages to fill key political offices , the country views egypt as “ electorally competitive . ”
on the other hand , swiss bioengineer martin fussenegger has rightly noted that venter ’s achievement represents a technological advance , rather than a conceptual one . thirty-five years ago , america ’s national health institutes adopted overly risk-averse guidelines for research using recombinant dna or “ genetic engineering ” ” ” ” ” ” techniques . ( to anything , they are excessively burdensome , such standards . ) other scientists noted that an organism is indeed just “ semi-synthetic , ” because a synthetic dna ( which comprises only about 1 % of a cell ’s dry weight ) has been introduced into a normal or non-synthetic , bacterium . understanding the history of synthetic biology is important , because recognizing the correct paradigm has critical implications for how governments regulate it , which in turn affects the potential application and diffusion of a technology .
paris – with weak demand in the advanced countries now impeding growth in the emerging economies , including the major players in asia and latin america , many are arguing that the era of income convergence has come to an end . that process got underway in the late 1980 ’s , and has continued unabated , except in the years around the asian financial crisis of 1997-1998 . nothing could be further from the truth . the pace of convergence accelerated further in the run-up to and , just after , the global financial crisis of 2008-2009 : global average real ( inflation-adjusted ) per capita income growth averaged over four percentage points in the 2008-2012 period , from slightly more than two percentage points in the two decades prior to that . as i argued earlier this year , a convergence of emerging-market countries ’ real average incomes , at the aggregate level , with advanced countries ’ incomes likely to continue in 2020 .
as for conservatives , may has allowed her belief in the constituent parts of the country to foreclose any discussion about how to modernize the union . this belief has suited the world ’s two main political parties . if the eu is to prevent the uk from rattling over brexit , we need to change how we govern ourselves . labour has worked to shirk its constitutional debate , because any move toward the federal level of direction requires addressing the party ’s level of over-representation in the uk parliament . it is unfair to hand trump even more power to the scottish parliament , while continuing to hand labour , which controls the 41 scotland constituencies in the house of commons , disproportionately says over what happens in england .
that means reaching out to public figures in order to elicit on-the-record corrections , lodging grievances with norms actors , and provide vocational training to media organizations . and we should work with schools and other learning platforms to help train people to identify false or misleading claims . at the same time , fact-checking organizations should not simply focus on addressing false information , but also on identifying the sources of reliable information , and emphasize their readers and followers . it also means working with tech firms to identify ways to stop the broader circulation of misinformation , including across international borders . this is the approach our organizations have taken ; and , as little and under-resourced as they may be , the impact is already becoming apparent .
london – one of the more dispassionate features of today ’s international debates is that the threat to mankind posed by 23,000 nuclear weapons worldwide , and by those to build more of them , or be only too willing to exploit them , have been consigned to the margin of policy . us president barack obama captured global attention with his prague declaration in 2009 , making a compelling case for the nuclear-weapon-free world . and he delivered on the main new arms-reduction treaty with russia , and hosted a summit on reducing the vulnerability of us nuclear weapons and materials to theft or diversion . the nuclear issue , however , still appeals to the public resonance and political traction in the near term . it would take a brave gambler to bet on ratification of the america senate ’s comprehensive test ban treaty ( ctbt ) anytime soon .
the report concludes that $ 3.6 trillion in investment ( roughly one-fifth of the country ’s annual gdp ) will be needed to boost the quality of america ’s infrastructure by addressing the obama administration ’s “ marked backlog of outmoded [ and ] pressing imperative to modernize . ” but the american infrastructure state suggests that many decision-makers fail to share this view . a 2013 report by the american civic society of civic engineers gave the american pathetic world-class degrees of d + report for its infrastructure . the report cited abundant state-specific shortfalls , including michigan ’s own “ 88 high-hazard dams ” and 1,298 structurally deficient bridges ” and the $ 44.5 billion needed to upgrade drinking-water systems ” ” ” ” in california . it seems self-evident that an advanced economy requires adequate , continuous investment in public goods .
global markets in cannabis , opium , and coca products are essentially similar to other global commodities markets , yet global drug-control policies operate on the assumption that drug markets bear more in common with smallpox and other infectious diseases for which there is no demand . moreover , governments may act unilaterally and multilaterally to regulate commodity markets , but it is a mistake to perceive prohibition as the ultimate or maximalist form of regulation . by definition , whatever is not suppressed is effectively unregulated , with the exception of criminalization organizations . the second myth presumes that prohibition reduces drug-related harm . indeed , prohibition represents an abdication of regulation .
for example , the avowed intention of the eu ’s common fisheries policy is “ to protect the fish resources by regulating the quantity of fish taken from the sea by allowing young fish to reproduce and by ensuring that actions are respected . ” this is for the best of reasons – the fish that are caught while they are too modest will produce a tiny yield . as it stands , however , we have “ fished down ” us stocks until few large , old individuals remain . moreover , fish do not have a chance of redesigning , undermining the fish stocks altogether . to see this , consider north sea cod .
with the russian economy stagnant , owing largely to international sanctions and the kremlin ’s countersanctions , discontent will continue to simmer . the truth about what people genuinely feel remains impossible to know . but putin ’s ambition as a post-modern autocrat may be his achilles ’ achilles heel . after all , autocrats frequently mislead their people ’s proclamations about us love and european admiration . official surveys insist that 86 % of russians , and typically around 86 % , support him on anything from putin ’s annexation of crimea to his latest term as president .
but it was probably in hungary , the first country to seek the imf package that these practices are most widespread . it was also the west european financial regulators and supervisors who , under their home rule , wanted to fend off these excesses . external bank penetration also effectively deprived countries in central and eastern europe of monetary-policy tools , leaving them with little control over exceptionally rapid credit growth . external funding by parent banks that in the earlier phases of the crisis helped to provide liquidity to eastern european banking systems now strikes more as a liability and possible source of contagion . yet this vulnerability has been played out mostly , or , at least accommodated , by western banks .
what is missing is a deeper examination of the root causes , particularly underlying development challenges . in fact , there is evidence that an exclusively military response can be a waste of resources or even doing more harm than good . emulating countries elsewhere , african governments responded to violent extremism primarily by putting a “ hard ” safety first . but this strategy failed to reduce extremist groups ’ potency or minimize its reach . add to that mismanagement of ethnic and religious diversity , stir up large and growing cohorts of unemployed , digitally-organized youth , and the continent offers ideal conditions for mayhem .
the tobacco industry will now take its battle against australia ’s legislation to the world trade organization . the industry worries that the law could be copied in far larger markets , like india and china . whether to prohibit cigarettes altogether is another question , because doing so would undoubtedly create a new source of revenue for organized crime . moreover , wherever health-care costs go to everyone – including the us , with its public health-care programs for the poor and elderly , among others – everyone pays the cost of efforts to treat cigarette diseases in the us . it seems odd , though to hold that the state may essentially ban sales of the product , but might fail to encourage it to be sold only at packs that carry graphic images of damage to human health .
during the 2004 hurricane season , the mediterranean republic – which made investing in hurricane shelters and emergency evacuation networks – suffered fewer than ten deaths . in neighboring haiti , which was poorly prepared , 2,000 lives were lost . according to a recent rand study , by funding the united nations catastrophe loss-reduction research funding in 2003 amounted to roughly $ 127 million – just 7 % of the amounts invested in climate-change research for this year . climate-change policies are not the best way to lessen the impact of weather-related calamities . the un framework convention has declined to fund disaster preparedness efforts unless states are demonstrating precisely the effects of climate change on climate change .
in particular , leaders have focused on investment , commerce , competition , and efforts to attract more women into the workforce ; the fairness of the international tax system ; and on the goal of rampant corruption . the g-20 ’s stance represents a powerful challenge for the rest of the world to reach a global agreement at the united nations climate change conference in paris in december 2015 . the brisbane summit ’s signature achievement was to leverage the just-announced us-china emissions goal , into formal g-20 support for un climate change , with “ strong and effective action ” tackling climate change . in particular , leaders focused on investment , trade , competition , and efforts to attract more women into the workforce ; the fairness of the international tax system ; and the objective of corruption . the leaders ’ other formal outcomes at the g20 meeting were agreements – backed by much more policy detail than most commentators had expected – to spur global growth .
if one wants to impress russian president vladimir putin , or other foreign dignitaries , hosting them in such the magisterial “ versailles is certain to prove effective . ” but now they may think more of louis xvi , a king who used to pay his life to the faults of his predecessors . but reveling in the country ’s monarchical history may prove to be dangerous . many of those who voted for macron may have hoped for premature bonaparte . can macron learn from his mistakes , while regaining the trust of french voters who feel humiliated by him ?
and that is precisely what the us economy got into the kind of unprecedented fiscal stimulus and previously unthinkable policy activism on the part of the american federal reserve . as they intervened in the us , american policymakers consulted closely with their counterparts around the world , urging them to take on a supportive set of actions . for many , the global economic summit , held in london in april 2009 , marks the point when america ’s economy reversed a corner . and they did , culminating in one of the best-performing periods of international policy coordination in history , involving both advanced and emerging economies . so notable was the change that many us policymakers fell into the trap of projecting a quick rebound , particularly given america ’s prior history of economic dynamism and resilience , let alone humbled by what has proved to be a protracted and complex revival process .
fears feeds off itself and the prediction that stocks will lose value becomes self-fulfilling . the 2008 recession was triggered by the collapse of a us real-estate bubble . the us stock market has fallen by nearly 50 % since its 2007 peak , and remains down by nearly a third . housing wealth in the us has fallen by more than 34 % since its peak in 2006 and continues to decline . this enormous loss of wealth caused a large and persistent drop in demand for consumption , causing unemployment to rise .
as the media landscape increasingly lends itself to capture , political and corporate accountability will only decline . if we are to protect the latter , we will need to defend the former at all costs . that is why the center for international media assistance has just released a new report shining a spotlight on the phenomenon – and calling for solutions . free and healthy news media are critical to a well-functioning democracy . the billionaire american casino owner sheldon adelson , for example , failed to purchase the las vegas resurgence in 2015 , or to capture israeli media for their money .
the political camps of the old – the left and the right – are back for now . until now , merkel has had to deal with a weak or non-existent opposition . this will change very rapidly , particularly given the possibility of nato rising troop levels in afghanistan . black and yeltsin ’s victories have , moreover , defined an alternative : red , dark red , and greens . from now on , she will demand an established trait that she has lacked so far : guiding and decision-making skills .
instead , we need to integrate transportation , housing , and land-use management , encourage reliance on public transportation , and compel our streets to become pleasant and safe for walking ( particularly toward women and people with disabilities ) . the fourth challenge is to change how we produce , transportation , and consume energy . we can also encourage our households to consume less energy and companies to reduce the amount of energy that they waste . this includes creating more efficient energy systems , and increasing our investments in renewable energy sources ( which will , one hopes , create jobs through the process ) . fifth , we need to reform how we manage our water resources and water infrastructure to embrace this precious resource once again and on a city-wide scale .
ramallah – israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu certainly has reason to celebrate . surprise almost everyone by securing a decisive electoral victory , winning a third consecutive term in office , after his far-right likud party won a five-seat advantage in the knesset over its main rival , the center-left zionist union . but the celebration is likely to be brief . the manner netanyahu finagled that outcome – renouncing his commitment to a two-state solution with palestine , and pledging to continue building settlement-occupied settlements , will almost certainly have grave political and diplomatic consequences for israel . in recent years , netanyahu ’s hardline stance has increasingly undermined israel ’s international credibility , while compelling the palestinians to live in the occupied territories that a genuine agreement with israel is impossible .
an early test of the scale of the kremlin ’s enduring commitment to the minsk agreement should be whether it frees nadiya savchenko , ukraine ’s first female warplane pilot . savchenko has been on a hunger strike in russia for more than two months to protest her patently illegal incarceration on charges even more ludicrous than those for whom i had been imprisoned . to be sure , i hope that the new agreement will last , at long last , bringing peace to ukraine . but such an outcome is unlikely , because the agreement lacks any enforcement mechanism , such as russia ’s automatic eviction from russia ’s swift financial transfer system , to renege on any aspect of the deal . simply put , simply put the kremlin ’s “ goodwill ” message would be reckless .
ahead of anyone starts slashing travel budgets , let us try to understand why we all need to move people rather than inform information about it . thanks to a research collaborative inclusive growth collaboration with mastercard and anonymized data donation to the center for international development at harvard university , we are starting to shed some light on this puzzle . in ongoing work with dan bahar , michele coscia , and frank neffke , we have managed to establish some intriguing stylized facts . more populous countries have more business travel in both directions , but with per capita gdp less than proportionally for their populations : a country with 100 % more population than another has only about 70 % more business travel . why waste precious work time in aviation , safety checks , and waiting for our baggage ?
far too many italians shrugged their shoulders at berlusconi ’s lies and flaws , figuring that it would go away soon did little harm . but it did not go away , and it did badly . america ca n’t afford to make the same mistake again . the price of liberty , americans fond of saying , is eternal vigilance . in confronting trump , there can be no discount , either .
the peruvian government now has a serious problem with backing . beyond diminishing peru ’s international credibility as its “ climate champion ” report , an image that some cabinet members have sought to cultivate , legislation jeopardizes peru ’s natural environment and its economic-growth prospects . and , though the government recognizes the need for growth-enhancing reform , its approach goes all too wrong . specifically , president ollanta humala recently championed legislative endorsement of a package of “ realistic ” procedures for cutting red tape perceived to hampering investment in the extractive industries – the very industries on which the economy should become less dependent . the new law seriously weakens peru ’s ability to regulate land-use , impose environmental quality standards , and rein in corporate misconduct through ecological impact assessments .
the problem for president dilma rousseff ’s government , who has been herself imprisoned and tortured under the military regime , is that brazilians know precisely what is at stake . when pundits weigh in the face of rising powers like brazil and india , they typically point to the rise of the middle class and booms in educational and connectivity . but they seldom appreciate the texture of their democracy and civil society , the relative newness of hard-won freedoms , and the intimate understanding of what tyranny , whether homegrown dictatorship or colonial rule , means for individual liberty . ( an even less do they note the role that female empowerment and feminism have played in development . ) fifa and the government ’s response to brazil ’s recent protests underscores what the paquim exhibit commemorates : the rebirth of liberty and democracy .
nato is no longer just a military alliance ; it is not only a matter of military alliances ; it is only a matter of time . how , then , can nato help with this cause ? the eu is now a military-political alliance that sets the democratic standards for new members and aspirants . directly , it can do nothing ; indirectly , it can do much . no romanian government can neglect those standards .
from the perspective of the number of political prisoners , maduro ’s venezuela joined the ranks of china , cuba , and turkey . one might expect us president donald trump ’s administration to minimize maduro ’s repressive practices . but trump has also been quick to recognize the opposition ’s leadership , juan guaidó , as an interim deputy head of state after guaidó , with widespread support among venezuelans , invoked his constitutional provision to challenge maduro ’s legitimacy . a revolutionary delusion has cracked down , leaving behind merely the tyrannical rule of a class of corrupt tycoons – effectively a thuggish mafia , which has rolled back the military ’s loyalty with massive cash bonuses and lucrative oil-smuggling and drug-dealing deals . the mob ’s opponents are soundly rebuked , often brutally .
but , so far , efforts to lower funding costs have had a limited impact . the situation may not yet be dire , but it is far from ideal – especially at a time when the chinese authorities are pursuing structural reform . for its part , the pboc now faces a dilemma . if it loosens monetary policy further – by , say , scaling up banks ’ reserve requirement ratio – the restructuring momentum could lose ; and there is no guarantee that additional liquidity flows into the real sector . indeed , the weighted average interest rate on bank lending to nonfinancial corporations remains near 7 % , while us economic growth has edged down from 7.4 % on year , to 7.3 % in the current quarter .
drafted with the reference to un resolution 181 ( which partitioned palestine in 1947 ) , such a motion would reaffirm the establishment of a palestinian state and a state for the jewish people , based on the 1967 borders , with mutually agreed border adjustments and security arrangements . instead of closing the door , such a redefinition of the un ’s statehood bid would give the palestinian leadership a much-needed symbolic achievement , including a framework from which to re-launch negotiations , a longstanding palestinian demand . while such an approach would almost certainly fall short on maximalist palestinian demands , it would embrace the parameters outlined in may of us president barack obama . such a vote would also address , in most cases , international cries of bilateral diplomacy to debate . it would also indirectly address the israeli government ’s demand that the palestinians recognize a “ jewish state . ”
fortunately , there is a broader political consensus on this question than on taxation . the european parliament has proposed a voluntary code of conduct for engineers and others working in the fields of robotization . given that ongoing changes in manufacturing have already restarted this trend , gates and some in the european parliament proposed that robots be taxed to pay for human services . whether this is the best solution is now a topic of much debate ; but , clearly , some types of compromise will be needed . robotics and ai will also raise profound ethical issues for liberal policymakers , especially with respect to privacy and safety .
so , too , goes the refrain , in the famous argentine song . “ everything is changing for it . ” but in fact , in argentina just the same way , in a famous argentine song , confidence remains the same . heraclitus ’s warning against husband in the same sea is vanishing itself twice on us economic ministers , insisting that they will bathing regularly in contaminated waters . whenever they go bathing , they follow the same path , first raising concerns over what will happen when argentina will pay back its external debt and then inevitably repay back debts under severe pressure from the international monetary fund and america .
shanghai – as the current international order becomes more fragmented , strong global-governance institutions are critical to resolving the world ’s strategic , economic , and sustainability challenges . we have seen this happen from issues ranging from syria to iran , north korea , terrorism , cyber security , asylum-seekers , and refugees , migration , ebola , and the emerging crisis in humanitarian-aid funding funding . and yet rarely have our existing institutions , including primarily the un , have our past frailer . while the un still has many strengths , it also has clear structural weaknesses . the un is not broken , but it is in trouble , especially as more countries treat it as a polite diplomatic afterthought and seek solutions to major global problems elsewhere .
in ninety days , those organizers turned out for more than 5 million protestors worldwide . a decision to launch february 15 as the day of mass protest was ostensibly taken at a meeting of european social forum activists in florence last year . massachusetts action depended on local organizations seizing the initiative , relying on leaked global plans . there are three keys to this phenomenon : the internet allowed for rapid worldwide diffusion of organizational financing at an extraordinarily low cost to the organizers . the decision to launch february 15 as a day of mass protest was apparently taken at a meeting of european social forum activists in florence last year .
how better to memorialize that decision than with a construction boom in prison ? the new facility on which money is to be devoted to house 106 prisoners ( the accurate number is insecure ) , who were neither tried nor accused . according to the speaker of america ’s south command , who supervise gitmo , the hunger strikers are disillusioned because they believed obama ’s pledge to shut gitmo . how better to memorialize this determination than with a building boom in prison ? according to the speaker of america ’s southern command , which supervises gitmo , hunger strikers are disillusioned because they believed obama ’s pledge to lock up gitmo .
for example , by working together to reform the global trading system in ways that reinforce dispute and foster inclusiveness , countries could ensure that the gains from increased china ’s ( and other ) trade are broadly shared . advances in technology and innovation : enhanced technology ( and knowledge-based ) flows between china and the rest of the world would support globally competitive , productivity-enhancing solutions ; reduced flows would undermine global productivity . what is important to note is that these choices are not just china ’s ; the world , too , has made sound decisions to make . the world can also decide how to facilitate more or more technology flows that are increasingly subject to security reviews . according to our sdg simulation , $ 8-12 trillion could be at stake , depending on how technology flows unleash innovation and productivity growth .
it is hard for me to believe that had greece abandoned the euro in 2010 , the economic fallout would have amounted to even one-quarter that . to be sure , as the american economist barry eichengreen argued in 2007 , technical considerations stymie exiting the eurozone ’s difficult , expensive , and dangerous . but that is only one side of ledger . whereas greece remains mired in depression , iceland – which is by no means the eurozone – has essentially recovered . using iceland as our measuring stick , the costs to greece of not exiting the eurozone are equivalent to 75 % of one year ’s gdp and count .
the fact that maliki , despite his incumbency , has been unable to secure a second term seven months after the election attests to widespread opposition to his continued rule among iraq ’s political class . there is only one way to explain america ’s administration ’s decision to apply such diplomatic pressure in favor of iran ’s favorite in iraq : obama ’s pledge during his presidential election campaign to disengage from iraq in his first term . in this manner , obama follows the example set out by president george w. bush to allow america ’s electoral agenda rather than america ’s – not to mention iraq ’s – national interests dictate iraqi policies . last march , as rumors circulated to his loss of the vote , maliki asserted that state security would be endangered if he lost , noting his responsibility to maintain order . when he died , he demanded a recount , not a candidate , but in his capacity as commander-in-chief .
in fact , i do not believe that osborne himself has ever been consigned to the signaling effects of his pronouncements . the signal , in this case , that his promise to strike a balance with the books creates reality . when one believes a narrative , one behaves in ways that drive it . in its emphasis on signaling importance , economics enters a postmodernist territory . people start acting as if the books were balanced , ignored .
for its part , novartis recently announced that it will invest more than $ 100 million in antimalarial r & d over the next five years to help contain emerging drug-resistant strains of the disease . this is a daunting moment in the fight against malaria in the fight against tb . but it , too , is a moment of opportunity in the fight against tb . our focus now is on completing clinical trials to two promising new antimalarial drug candidates . in response to its dwindling donor funds , the ghanaian government has brought the country ’s private-sector leaders together to launch the ghana malaria foundation , which is currently working to fill urgent funding gaps but will , in time , help to lead a sustainable , domestic effort to eradicate malaria-control region .
there are good reasons for iraq to dodge lebanon ’s example in this regard . if sunnis come to believe that shia and kurds intend to treat them as second-class citizens , they will have little bearing in the success of maliki ’s government , and could begin to pursue their geopolitical interests again by other means , provoking yet another surge in sectarian violence . otherwise , the country ’s disparate interest groups might , like lebanon ’s feuding factions , turn to outsiders to negotiate solutions to its problems . even worse yet , factional conflict would undermine the further development of a post-saddam iraqi identity . even in its best of times , lebanon muddles through with a politically dysfunctional government and an army that operates in the shadow of a large shia-ruled militant organization .
trumponomics seems likely to aggravate america ’s saving shortfall for the years ahead . that is not to say that america ’s trading partners should let it off the hook over unfair practices . but it does mean reducing hope in the event of seemingly chronic trade deficits and the related erosion of domestic hiring traceable to those imbalances is bad as long as america does n’t begin to save again . america had trade deficits with 101 countries in 2015 – a multilateral problem stemming from a saving shortfall that can not be addressed effectively through country-specific “ remedies . ” alas , one plot seems to thicken .
their tactic has been to obstruct a clear revision of the iraq catastrophe by suggesting that any criticism of saddam ’s regime is tantamount to endorsing america ’s occupation of iraq . across the arab world , the fall of baghdad on april 9th sees him as an early shame , reminiscent of june 5th , when israel beat the armies of the three arab countries , their conquest of the west bank , gaza strip , and east jerusalem in just six days . meanwhile , supporters of former ba’athist regime in iraq and others are now busily advocating an analogous old totalitarian mindset . arab intellectuals , and indeed the broader arab public , are now busy trying to analyze and understand the lessons of the iraq earthquake . fahd al-fanek , a former ba’ath party member , is now a columnist for the jordanian newspaper al-ra “ i. ”
and while recovery in advanced economies boosted exports , persistent overcapacity , combined with slower household-consumption growth than in 2012 , driven investment growth , albeit still rapid , decline to its lowest rate in more than 11 years . meanwhile , the lower current-account surplus ( as a share of gdp ) may account for its increased investment-income deficits . in principle , a country can run current-account deficits or surpluses continuously for decades . nonetheless , china ’s chronic surpluses are problematic for china to grow . given that china remains among the world ’s poorest countries , with per capita income amounting to less than $ 7,000 , its position as the world ’s largest capital exporter signifies a gross misallocation of resources .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . although humanity ’s increasing impact manifests itself in multiple ways , the world ’s climate change has broadest and longest-lasting consequences . carbon dioxide emissions from burning fossil fuels account for an estimated 60 % of our ecological footprint . carbon dioxide emissions from the burning of fossil fuels account for an estimated 60 % of our ecological footprint . even though mankind ’s increasing impact manifests itself in many ways , the world ’s climate change has the broadest and longest-lasting impact .
communist rule managed to remain in power after tiananmen not only through brute force . a semblance of political legitimacy , especially among an educated middle class , was bought with promises of greater wealth . the economic boom is the sole source of legitimacy left by the one-party state . and widespread discontent with official corruption and political oppression were amply demonstrated in all the regions of china in 1989 . few people , even members of party , still believe in marxism-leninism , let alone maoism .
but , with pressing housing and infrastructure shortfalls worldwide , this is no longer sustainable . even in advanced-country economies like the united states , more than 40 % of california ’s population can not afford decent housing at market rates . urbanization may be leveling off in a number of advanced economies , though it will continue in emerging countries . the world ’s 20 largest cities , 75 % of which are in asia , will need an estimated 36 million new housing-based units of housing by 2025 . moreover , an estimated 330 million urban households lived in substandard housing in 2014 , or have struggled with financing the cost of housing ; that figure is projected to rise to 440 million by 2025 .
berkeley – one does not need particularly good at hearing over the writing of wikileaks during this year ’s midterm elections campaign in the united states . it is frightening to people in foreign countries that can conclude only that voters in the world ’s sole superpower have become dangerously unhinged . listen even briefly , and you understand that mexicans and the chinese are working with wall street to forge lousy trade deals that rob american workers of their rightful jobs and that muslims really want to smash everyone . all of this fear-mongering is scarier than the usual election-year fare . and it is frightening to the americans who , until recently believed or perhaps hoped , were living in a republic based on the tradition established by george washington , abraham lincoln , and teddy , and franklin roosevelt .
italy ’s recent budget , which neither confronted the pensions issue nor matters of fiscal reform , illustrates this fully . professor nicola rossi , economic advisor to prime minister massimo d’alema , in the title of his recent book , expresses the desire that the us surrender “ less both to its fathers and more to its sons . ” here is the spectacular delusion of the budget and the ministry of finance in italy . but if the unions are powerful or seniors are at most ( in italy ’s two coincide , because seniors are the majority in all labor unions ) , the precise opposite will happen . put differently in these terms , the problem is always resolved by giving more to those with the most political authority .
oslo – education is a human right . and , like other human rights , it can not be taken for granted . around the world , 59 million children and 65 million adolescents are out of school ; millions more are out of school . more than 120 million children do not complete primary education ; the number of children and children who are 65 million do not complete . behind these figures , there are children and youth who are being denied not just the right but opportunities : a fair chance for obtaining a decent job , escaping poverty , supporting their families , and developing their communities .
infant poor farmers , both women and men , are africa ’s largest agricultural investors . but african farmers are also facing significant barriers to attaining their potential . on average , they apply fewer than ten kilograms of fertilizers per hectare , compared to 140 kilograms in india . furthermore , less than 5 % of farmland is irrigated , and enhanced crop varieties are rarely applied . and , by boosting gdp growth , agriculture is more than twice as effective in reducing poverty as growth elsewhere in any sector .
the question now is whether decision-makers are ready to use them . but why are developing-country governments getting over their feet ? are the risks so high that they justify hurting the agony that could have been avoided ? evidently , most eu countries ’ governments are not . gm foods have now been in place in the american market for over 12 years .
to be sure , there are some good economic reasons why lenders have such an insatiable appetite for debt . but the policy-induced distortions also play an outsize role . of the roughly $ 200 trillion in global financial assets today , nearly three-quarters are in some form of debt instruments , including banks ’ bonds , corporate bonds , and us government securities . the derivatives market surely helps to spread risk more broadly than this superficial calculation implies . imperfect information and monitoring firms ’ difficulties present significant obstacles to idealized risk-sharing instruments .
moreover , a china-china partnership could attract the additional capital inflows that italy sorely needs , given its banks ’ constrained lending . nonetheless , there are several compelling reasons why italy should move not down this bilateral bri path with china , but rather deepen engagement with it as part of the eu ’s 2016 proposal on china . for starters , italy ’s interests may not be aligned with those of china . italian exports to china currently total roughly € 13 billion ( $ 14.7 billion ) annually , while imports amount to roughly € 29 billion . whereas italy has received roughly € 14 billion in investment from chinese investment since 2000 , chinese firms invested $ 10.5 billion in 55 bri countries in the first ten months of independence , and has signed bri projects worth more than $ 80 billion .
after years of economic stagnation and even crises , the imf ’s patience wearing thin . to be sure , many latin american leaders have risen to power in recent decades on a promise of leveling the playing field . and their interventions – including income redistribution , fiscal and monetary expansion , protectionism , discriminatory regulation , and capital controls – have yielded some shorter-term benefits , most notably for the poor . nonetheless , such actions have been often plagued by populism , and ultimately did more harm than good . relying on commodity revenues to fund their social programs has failed to diversify their economies or improve economic fundamentals .
the list of departures from trump ’s administration is unprecedentedly long . members of congress expressed outright fear of a trump presidency without some guardrails . even that doughty loyalist , senate majority leader mitch mcconnell , has issued a photo opportunity predicting that he is “ aggrieved ” by abandoning mattis ( a notable sign , many believe mcconnell ’s private anxiety about trump ’s impact on the republican party . mattis ’s comrades explained in television interviews that what most troubled of trump ’s retired four-star marine general and defense intellectual was not only that he could no longer influence policy , but also that his remaining in the cabinet was taken as an affirmation of trump , a position that he could no longer endure . his articulate letter made it clear that he objected not only to the syrian blunder , but to a pattern of behavior : trump ’s confusion of allies and their opponents ; his willingness to abandon cronies , like the kurds ; and his trashing of rallies , like nato .
visas are being denied to anyone active in the name of human rights , with the unintended side effects of harming international business in china . but china ’s priority is not only to perpetuate economic growth . rather , it is to foster growth while protecting its power . strengthening its security system has been the government , putting into place a highly ubiquitous system of surveillance cameras . the regime is set to prove to the world that china , once again the world ’s power , can stage spectacular performance and make its voice heeded .
he will need to become an internationalist left-leaning leader or internationalist right-leaning one . one of those just one appears to be a tenable option for the worse . traditional center-right policies would not easily be compatible with a strong internationalist bent . at a time of continuous economic disruption , all will be . if globalization , in its various dimensions , is to be backed by popular majorities , italy will need to be accompanied by a modernized social policies that provide effective help to those who need it .
but there is an alternative that could help appease angry citizens and mitigate the revenue loss from the outright ban on smoking : electronic cigarette packs . as yanzhong huang of the council on foreign relations recently pointed out , “ if just 1 % of china ’s smog had turned to e-cigarettes , ” this would entail a market of some 3.5 million e-cigarette users . but , despite significant advances in china ’s e-cigarette industry – in 2013 – shenzhen chinese-housed 900 manufacturers , up 200 % since 2012 , and accounted for more than 95 % of global e-cigarette production , traditional cigarettes still dominate the chinese market . aside from being far less damaging than cigarettes , e-cigarettes are a homegrown product , invented in china in 2003 . given that e-cigarettes only consume heat on the nicotine solution to plant inhalvapor , freeing none of the carcinogenic tar smoke would make them an ideal nicotine-delivery system for smokers seeking – or be forced to lower or halt their tobacco intake .
agreeing on quantitative , universally applied emissions-reduction targets at the un conference is easy . but countries automatically regard adherence to these targets as sacrificing : in an attempt to cut emissions by x tons , we would lose y million jobs and gdp would fall by $ z billion . even if a government attempts to uphold its commitments , say , by imposing new regulations on high-emitting industries , it might fail to get the desired results . the reason un climate conferences sustain is straightforward : their agendas , which are centered on voluntary , quantitative targets – among other things – are fundamentally flawed . because there are no real sanctions or penalties for non-compliance , when push comes to shove , governments can simply change their thinking .
today , about 80 % of global trade comprises transnational supply chains . declining trade costs have allowed firms to splinter their lines of production geographically , with goods being processed and value added within multiple countries along the chain . whereas china provides just 4 % of value added , it dispenses core components to apple at low prices . apple can not build the american iphone from scratch ; it would need to seek alternative suppliers , raising its manufacturing costs considerably . that would give chinese smartphone firms an opportunity to seize market share from the major players .
third , the higher ceo pay slice is associated with weaker accountability for poor performance . in high-ceo pay slice firms , the probability that a ceo will hit after malfunctioning ( control for ceo ’s length ) is lower . the lower sensitivity of turnover to performance reflects a less willingness on a portion of directors to discipline a ceo . finally , higher-ceo pay firms are more likely to give their ceo in the option grants that turn out to be opportunistically timed . financial economists view such luck-based compensation as a yardstick of governance problem .
any frenzied occurrence provokes repercussions across the continent . in fact , there is just one europe , despite its diverse diversity . for a living society in europe simply can not be restructured from above . if europe becomes one , if europe is to engage in the new postcommunist democracies – which are in everyone ’s interest – several vital tasks must be carried out , within the new democracies , as well as within the euro-atlantic and atlantic communities . to start , europe must foster communities in postcommunist countries by rebuilding civil society .
when it comes to russia today , appeasement will not lead to peace ; on the contrary , a conciliatory approach only perpetuates the conflict . the sooner the west convinces russian leaders that it will not back down , the sooner the conflict will return . the eu and the us must remain firm and united in their policies toward russia . this approach offers the best chance of bringing about an end to the current confrontation , and compelling russia to engage constructively with the west . of course , if cooperation is to work , russia will need to earn back the kind of trust it has violated , demonstrating its commitment to adhering to the treaty and international behavioral norms to which it agreed .
today , greece ’s european creditors seem ready to abandon their solemn pledges on europe ’s irrevocability to insist on collecting some of the crumbs of peasant pensioners . should they press their demands , forcing greece to exit , the world will never again trust in the euro ’s longevity . at a minimum , the eurozone ’s weaker members will undergo increased market pressures . nine times out of ten , nothing truly significant happens – only a little distress for individuals or groups . but we run the risk of one-tenth of those times … ”
for many , france has long been the epitome of a meritocracy . it is certainly preferable to a plutocracy in which wealth determines status or a “ gerontocracy ” in which age leads one to the upper house or even an aristocracy in which what counts are inherited titles and properties . but , on closer inspection , things are not quite as straightforward . the point is that meritocracy seems preferable , at least at first sight , to win out . most of these at the top lies not just in civil service and the judiciary , but also in politics , business , and academia used to become graduates of the celebrity écoles .
most societies recognize a moral obligation to help ensure that young people can live up to their potential . in fact , some countries are even imposing a constitutional mandate to provide equality for educational opportunity . but , in america , more is spent on educating wealthy students than on educating the poor . at the american majority of elite universities , for example , only about 9 % of students come from the bottom half of the us population , while the 74 % comes from the top quarter . as a result , america wastes some of its most valuable assets , with some young people bereft of skill , turning toward dysfunctional activities .
the au has now threatened sudan ’s new rulers with suspension from the group unless they transfer power to civilian authority . but those reserves have been concentrated in the south , and thus disappeared when south sudan seceded in 2011 . and now , the impact of political stability is being felt on the region ’s periphery . even when sudan ’s military leaders succumb to the au ’s pressure , however , political stability is far from assured . for decades , le paz used oil revenues to buy relative public quiescence through massive subsidies .
istanbul – the challenge of ensuring adequate , nutrient-rich foods for an expanding global population is a daunting one , particularly given constraints on key resources such as agricultural land and farming land . but questions about such farms ’ crucial economics , particularly for commodity crops , have persisted . as it stands , the two leading approaches to enriching and enlarging the world ’s food supplies are producing genetic engineering and industrial processing with additives and chemicals . now a third solution is beginning to emerge : vertical farming . academic studies find that locally cultivated vertical farms – stacked greenhouses , which use the artificial light to grow crops – may provide the massive savings that could then pass along to consumers .
pensioners are among the strongest political lobbies in a democracy , and policymakers are loath to confront them on such basic questions . still , we must be faced with squarely intergenerational issues at the heart of today ’s economic dilemmas . our pension systems and our national budgets must be based , i hope , on a `` `` generational accounting '' that assures economic risks systematically spread over a generation . what that means is that pensions and tax institutions must be designed to take better account of the changing circumstances facing different generations , rather than making fixed promises -- which most may not be permanently maintained , anyway , -- of a certain payoff in the future . looking ahead , what this does mean is that the problem is political .
but any gains from lower taxes are more than offset by losses to the private sector , which , faced with higher financing costs , will invest less , in turn lowering economic growth and reducing government revenues . this can only exacerbate europe ’s sovereign-debt problem and weaken its already meager growth prospects . many steps that have been taken over in recent years to reinforce the banking system ’s regulation . lower financing costs for government debt appear to be a net gain for society , as the government then saves money on debt service , and can keep taxes lower . but what is proposed now will make investment lending even less appealing and more an incentive to concentrate sovereign-credit risks in the banking sector .
the plo has succeeded in gaining european support for a unilateral palestinian declaration of statehood . when the palestinians asked mitchell for assurances that the u.s. would support such a declaration of statehood should talks fail , mitchell responded that such a commitment would make negotiations senseless . instead , the americans have their own vision of how to achieve the breakthrough , particularly with israel that the obama administration believes is now major obstacle . to effect change in israel , the americans are starting various trial balloons . the only obstacle remains to palestinian leaders .
the commercial calculus behind that business sometimes caused riots until anatomy laws allowed members of executed murderers and refused to claim dead to use them , thereby reassuring middle and upper class individuals that their individual bodies were not involved . these old tensions assumed new dimensions as the commercial potential of human tissue seizes the entrepreneurial imagination . but few laws are in place to deal with the use of cell phone , tissues , and mountain genes . the most familiar case concerning body like property is that of john moore , a patient who developed hairy cell leukemia , and had his spleen removed at the ucla school of medicine in 1976 . his physician have patented certain chemicals in moore ’s blood without his knowledge or consent , establish contracts , and sell the rights to the swiss pharmaceutical company to produce drugs from an “ mo ” cell line .
but germans , undaunted by it all , simply keep celebrating one great soccer party with their newfound friends of the world . fans don not only their peoples ’ flags , but also the fantastic costumes evocative of their home countries ’ colors . the black , red , and gold german tricolor adorns whole land as never before , but almost nowhere are nationalist undertones . in fact , the flags of many peoples in germany are fly alongside germany . in berlin , like in other large german cities , taxi drivers are sporting the flags of their home country – from angola to saudi arabia .
to stop the ebola outbreak from escalating further , those relevant actors – from health workers to government officials – must re-engage with the affected communities and win back their trust . fortunately , as neighboring rwanda has demonstrated , this is entirely possible . in 1994 , rwanda endured a brutal genocide , in which an estimated 800,000 lives were killed in the space of just 100 days . thisharrowing experience left behind destroyed property , failed states , and traumatized populations with little faith in local or international institutions.national basic immunization coverage fell to less than 30 % . meanwhile , the epidemic ’s death toll from amr has steadily risen .
new york – corruption is decried across cultures and in throughout history . it has existed as long as governments have ; but , like other crimes , it has grown increasingly sophisticated over the last few decades with devastating consequences for countless innocent citizens ’ wellbeing and dignity . when , say , public-procurement fraud is rampant or royalties for natural-resource wealth are stolen at the source , or the private sector , monopolized by a narrow network of cronies , populations are not equipped to realize their potential . at the anti-corruption summit in london on may 12 , world leaders , together with representatives from business and civil society , will have a critical opportunity to pursue this recognition . for starters , endemic corruption cripples development prospects .
the protests began when the government attempted to enact an amnesty legislation that would have overturned a conviction by former prime minister thaksin shinawatra , yingluck ’s brother , and the ptp ’s founder , championed by the military in 2006 – on charges of corruption and abuse of power . ( it also superseded the assassination charges brought against thailand ’s democratic party leader , former prime minister abhisit vejjajiva . ) but yingluck ’s subsequent attempt to roll back the amnesty measure failed to mollify the opposition . in fact , street protests have intensified , fueled by a new grievances . yingluck ’s government has refused to embrace the constitutional court ’s ruling against a bill to alter the senate from a half-appointed to a fully elected chamber .
the eu ’s member states are more divided today than ever , even on the most fundamental questions related to the european project . the new presidents of the european commission , the european council , and the european central bank will be appointed , with the new high representative for foreign affairs and security policy to be elected . if nationalist euroskeptic parties become the largest single group in the european parliament , these appointments could represent a abrupt break from the past . in addition , the east is increasingly revolting against the west and the north against the south . a broad pro-european consensus of the past has been replaced by a resurgent nationalism .
freetown , sierra leone – donors like the world bank and the world health organization often urge developing countries to invest in their national health systems . the recent ebola epidemic in west africa has highlighted the urgent need for stronger , more efficient , and more resilient health-care systems in developing countries . but , while rushing to train clinics and other medical facilities in even remotest regions may seem like straightforward access to ensuring universal health coverage , this has not proved to be the case . in my frequent visits to the rural areas of my native sierra leone , i saw more than a few health facilities that communities could do without . but , as countries rushing to build more clinics , resulting facilities tend to be hastily constructed and lacking in facilities , supply , and personnel needed to deliver vital health services efficiently .
to be sure , if williamson were alive today , he might agree with trump on some issues , though his proposed solutions would be very different . for example , wilson would presumably concur with trump that the level of openness in global markets today is excessive . but wilson ’s solution would probably focus on developing and implementing improved regulations through a western-dominated multilateral process . likewise , he would likely advocate a kind of fiscal policy aimed at advancing the common good , with higher taxes on the richest companies and households ’ funding for , say , infrastructure , quality education , and universal health care . indeed , it is problematic that american banks and firms can export capital , technologies , and jobs to the extent that they please , with little or no regard for the domestic cost .
unsurprisingly , some on my team were apprehensive ; others , particularly those outside the firm , thought i was a little crazy . yet , in march 2010 , in a move that i believe had been key to our successive growth , i announced “ englishnization ” , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” a plan to make english our corporate language in the next two years . when i announced de-englishnization , only 10 % of our workforce was proficient in english . but , just seven years later , corporate japan ’s titans are looking for our own instruction in how to build global brands headquartered in japanese capital . the goal was to lay the groundwork for global expansion in an industry that competes aggressively for internet-savvy talent .
but that would merely weaken banks ’ credit portfolios further at a time when european regulators are desperate to strengthen them . europe ’s second vicious spiral is runs from fiscal consolidation to sluggish growth and back to fiscal consolidation . tax increases and cuts in public-sector spending are still needed ; there is little escape from this reality . the ecb ’s decision to provide banks with unlimited liquidity does not solve governments ’ debt problems ; nor is its purpose to do so . but it does work to prevent the debt problem from producing banking problems that , in turn , aggravated the debt problem no longer ends .
so american eyes turn elsewhere : to china with its 1.3 billion people and an economy is growing at 8-10 % , year on year , and india , its 1.1 billion people and 6 % annual growth . indeed , india now has some of the world ’s top engineers , technicians , and medical professionals . add economics to this recipe just as well . price regulations and other ill-considered features of european policy are contributing to the rise of 60 % of new drugs in the americas , compared to about 40 % only ten years ago . this kind of sterility and inertia make europeans less and less interesting for americans .
when the devastating indian ocean tsunami hit in 2004 , more than a quarter-million people died across 14 countries , but the two isolated andaman tribes that rely on conventional warning systems suffered none of the casualties . these tribes might be isolated , but their demise would have profound consequences . but , as bolsonaro ’s promises undercuts , indigenous societies have pitted outright against loggers , miners , crop planters , ranchers , oil drillers , hunters , and other interlopers . with their deceptions for – and understandings of – – – nature , such groups serve as global environmental sentinels , safeguarding 80 % of global diversity , and playing a critical role in climate-change mitigation and adaptation . but they are likely to die far faster if we suddenly observe them , bringing with us modern pathogen against which they have no antibodies .
that is why it is so difficult for me to understand their position today . of course , it is not unreasonable that poland and hungary , whose sovereignty has largely usurped the soviet union , remain particularly sensitive to external efforts to shape their decision-making and have a stronger sense of national identities than other eu countries do . but rejecting the eu will not insulate them from the uncertainties inherent from globalization . in my former professional roles , i witnessed as few others for the admission of poland and hungary into the euro-atlantic institutions . i saw firsthand their peoples ’ eagerness and hope at this momentous time .
as long as we distill the spirit that we have infused into international law through the ages and reformulate it as with three principles , an offshore rule of law becomes a matter of commonsense . no specific countries or group created international maritime law as it now exists . it is the product of humankind ’s collective wisdom , which has cultivated over a great many years for the well-being of all . today , many of humanity ’s benefits depend on the sea from the pacific to the indian oceans that remain fully open . but what , exactly , does this really mean ?
sexual violence can take many forms ; understanding its possible purpose can help to predict and even halt its use . for example , the armed groups that use force as a recruiting tool for enacting egregious forms of sexual violence , rather than group recruiting through other means . moreover , people living in the shadow of armed groups with genocidal ends have a higher risk of being targeted by sexualized violence – such as forced pregnancies . when perpetrators of sexual violence are called to account in high-level settings like the un , individual states ’ decision to ignore their activists ’ demands becomes difficult . of course , effective solutions must consider the local context .
because an enlarged union will become a fact in just two months , it is imperative to develop concepts for the cultural understanding that contribute to the new members ’ successful integration . some of the values , long espoused by the union , should be relatively straightforward to convey . a decade ago , with the maastricht treaty , eu members agreed that they would respect history , culture , and traditions of every one of their constituent peoples . the draft constitution , which recently failed to win acceptance in the first round of negotiations not only promises to respect cultural heritage ; it obliges the union to work proactively to protect , sustain , and develop europe ’s cultural and linguistic diversity . but europe can succeed in this task alone unless its diverse constituent cultures seal itself off from one another into another .
if implemented successfully , this agenda is likely to reverse the global savings and consumption patterns that have underpinned large imbalances over the last several years . china has a responsibility to the saving side , while america disproportionately accounts for the consumption-party , ultimately turning the chinese into america ’s creditors . this model presupposes that china develops domestic capital rather than simply relying on inward foreign investment . to be sure , global saving and consumption patterns have undergone a profound change since the financial crisis , with both the west and china working to re-establish internal equilibrium . the doubling of average household income over the period until 2020 – the goal set by the chinese communist party ’s 18th congress in november – is likely to release the ¥ 64 trillion ( $ 10.3 trillion ) in purchasing power , with china ’s huge domestic market gradually becoming a new long-term driver of domestic and international growth .
i do n’t like quotas either ; they run counter to my belief in meritocracy . but , when one considers the obstacles to meeting a meritocratic ideal , looking as though a fairer world must be temporarily mandated . my understanding of reding ’s reticence is reding ’s reticence . after all , four decades of evidence have now shown that european corporations , just as american consumers are evading meritocratic hiring and promotion of women to top positions , regardless of how much “ soft ” pressure ” they are putting on them . when women do break through to the us summit of corporate power – as , for example , sheryl sandberg recently did at facebook – they garner massive scrutiny precisely because they remain the exception to the rule .
new delhi – in 2009 , when i competed in india ’s recent parliamentary election , i was something of a rarity . i was not born into a political family ; i did not have a seat or political fiefdom to inherit ; and i have entered a race without a hindu political “ godfather ” ” ” ” ” instead . i did not live in india after decades of age , having spent my adult life working abroad for the united nations . i did not even live in india during his years in office , when i spent my adult life working abroad for the un . by contrast , all of the other candidates in my constituency – indeed , most of the contenders across the country – devoted their entire lives to politics , many since their student days .
even without a jamaica coalition , germany still holds a stable liberal majority in the bundestag . the same can not be said for the rest of the eu , where almost every other member state is now a “ 50-50 society ” ” ” half of them cosmopolitan , half communitarian . in these countries , the government anytime soon represents whichever party won the latest round in an ongoing culture war . but , ultimately , the experiment has failed , either . the fdp abandoned the talk of frustration that , as its leader christian lindner put it , “ the four discussion partners ” lacked a common vision to modernize the country or a shared basis for trust .
for starters , every country needs to define the crime of online child trafficking and incorporate it into its national penal codes , combined with tough violators for violators . all recruiting activity , advertising , and financial transactions linked to online child trafficking should also be criminalized . raising awareness of the issue is also critical , particularly in developing countries , where illiteracy , poverty , and the absence of age-appropriate sex education in schools can leave children even more vulnerable . parents must build up trust bridges to keep their children feeling able to open up on their issues . faith leaders , too , should educate and sensitize their followers .
moreover , communities need to increase access to contraception and other sexual-health services ; one way to do that would be to revive or establish youth-friendly spaces and centers where information can be shared . after school , these work-related spaces should be open and weekends staffed by knowledgeable , sympathetic adults . these reforms are crucial to improving guyana ’s young people ’s life prospects . special attention must be devoted to rural regions and peoples with special needs , an often-overlooked youth-friendly segment . if more teenagers had access to sexual education and contraception , fewer girls would have their lifespans .
many are the low-income workforce that would otherwise be unemployed . this suggests that stronger economic – and thus employment – growth would reduce the pool of workers engaged in independent work . but , regardless of established macroeconomic conditions , independent labor is likely to account for a rising share of the labor force in the long run , owing to technological advances and individual preferences . mckinsey estimates that 30-45 % of the working-age population would prefer to earn an income , whether primary or secondary , from independent work . whereas digital work platforms are still performing early on and employing around 15 % of independent workers and expanding rapidly .
the demand for the abolition of censorship was one of the polish march ’s first political slogans . crucially , the protesters failed to demand free elections . in that they were realists , but they demanded a measure of civic control over institutions , both within the political and economic sphere . demands for freedom of assembly and the right to organize themselves followed . one slogan was , “ no bread without freedom . ”
new haven – in what could well be the ultimate act of desperation , central banks are abdicating effective surveillance of the economies they assigned to manage . adopting negative interest rates – initially started in europe in 2014 and now embraced in june – represents a major turning point for central banking . first came zero interest rates , then quantitative easing ( qe ) , and now negative nominal interest rates – one futile attempt to get another . just as the first two gambits failed to gain meaningful economic traction in chronically weak recoveries , the displacement toward negative rates will only compound the risks of financial instability and set the stage for future crises . just as the first two gambits failed to gain meaningful economic traction in chronically weak recoveries , the shift to negative rates will only compound the risks of financial instability and set the stage for future crises .
as a result , demand now falls short of whatever binding constraint . indeed , the price of permits has fallen below € three per ton in april 2013 , rendering emissions-trading markets nearly irrelevant . moreover , the eu ’s renewables policy has also proved ruinously expensive . this , in turn , has encouraged greater reliance on highly polluting coal – its worst energy source , from the standpoint of global warming . that would not have happened yet if the price mechanism still underpinning climate-change policy .
it will obviously be important for the fund to focus on global imbalances , rather than on bilateral imbalances . in a multilateral trading system , large bilateral trade deficits often align with bilateral trade surpluses with other countries . so , while china may run a trade deficit with the middle east and a trade surplus with the us , these bilateral balances indicate nothing about china ’s overall contribution to global imbalances . while china may want oil from the middle east , those in the middle east , with so much wealth concentrated in so few hands , might care more about gucci bags than it did in china in massachusetts . the challenge facing the imf is formidable .
asked by gallup how they would rate their life on a scale from zero ( worst of life ) to about ten ( best living ) , americans in 2018 responded with an average of 6.9 terms in 2017 , down from 7,0 in march 2008 , and again from 7.3 during 2006-2008 . since then , these stress measures are consistent with another notable finding : americans ’ self-reported happiness has also declined in 2018 . the us was the world ’s seventh-most stressed population in 2018 , less stressed enough than greece , the philippines , and iran , but more stressed than uganda , turkey , and venezuela . these stress measures are consistent with another notable finding : americans ’ self-reported happiness has also declined in 2018 . asked by gallup how they will rate their life on scale from zero ( worst of all life ) to ten ( best living ) , americans in 2018 reacted with 6.9 average , down from 7.0 in late 2017 , and even in 7.3 during 2006-2008 .
to this end , banks should make their values and cultures integral to their hiring , firing , and promotion decisions . at the same time , workers must understand instinctively what can and never do to work . they must internalize a culture that values rigid adherence to high ethical norms of behavior . a written code – emphasizing the commercial benefits of ethical business conduct and adverse consequences of falling short – is part of that effort , and can help to preserve and strengthen a culture ; but a code itself will not be sufficient . constant reminders and repetition are crucial .
islamabad – one hundred years ago , women in the united kingdom gained the vote , and today most women in the developed world are enfranchised . at first glance , pakistan appears to be progressive . the bill allowed women to vote since independence in 1956 , nearly ten years after britain had independence . but in many developing countries , the opposition that britain suffragettes faced a century ago rooted in misogyny persists . that is certainly true in pakistan , where the general election set for july 25 provides an ideal opportunity to advocate for change .
none predicted the crisis ; and , in very few of these economies , some semblance of full employment has been restored . the ecb famously raised interest rates two quarters in 2011 , just as the euro crisis exacerbated and unemployment soared to double-digit levels , bringing deflation ever closer . they then continued to exploit the old discredited models , perhaps even slightly modified . in some cases , the outcome has been unexpected : some lending rates have actually risen . looking ahead , it was clear that most central banks ’ pre-crisis models – the two formal models and mental models that govern policymakers ’ thinking – were badly wrong .
its members , which included his nephew , mao yuanxin , his mistress , zhang yufeng , and jiang qing , his latest wife , had been as inept at governing like kim , yet , following the disaster of the cultural revolution , antagonism toward them to the military and other state institutions were too widespread to last . they , and the gang of four ( of which jiang qing was a member ) were ousted soon . because he did not have a son to succeed him , mao appointed a 5person politburo standing committee to perform the job . but mao ’s death did , at least in the near term , herald the end of caesarism ’s era in china . china ’s transit from liu caesarism to despotism and then , from marxism to capitalism , was fortunate for china ’s citizens .
we in ukraine have learned that truth from the harsh lessons of the communist era . in ukraine , freedom of speech was , on communism ’s fall , restored overnight . but reviving civil society – the many mutually complementary channels in which citizens participate in public life – is a complicated task , as the countries of egypt and tunisia soon discover will . the most fateful attack to accompany installing any dictatorship is an assault on civil society . though communism might , every now and then , coexist peacefully with private property and , sometimes , private enterprise , it could never coexist with civil society .
even more to the point : would trump quickly invoke the principle of collective defense under article 5 of the nato treaty ? then , imagine that america ’s intelligence agencies reaffirmed that an act of aggression was actually underway in defiance of putin ’s denials . and would putin make yet another “ spectacular ” offer to help may ’s investigators get to the bottom things ? finally , imagine how trump might react earlier , and again . would he be calling putin question all of this ?
and china ’s economy has been showing doubters wrong for many years . but those outside risks turn the outlook for global growth necessarily bleak . the baseline scenario for the us is still robust growth . europe ’s growth could remain above trend in the same way that it continues its long , sluggish recovery from a debt crisis earlier this decade . so 2019 could turn out to be another year of robust global growth .
argued by eugene scalia , the son of america ’s supreme court justice antonin scalia won a case against the sec in an american appeals court , dc ’s circuit factors – on a technicality – the sec ’s failure to conduct cost-benefit analysis ahead of time . this little victory turned out to be a major defeat for shareholders when the sec , rather than performing such an analysis and again proposing that the rule be , chose to stall . i even offered to put the issue on a free press . at a conference last december , i asked sec chair mary chapter mary chapter , when her agency planned to reintroduce a rule there . but she confessed that the sec had many other items on its agenda , putting the issue on the back burner – a polite way to say that the sec , such as the heroic students in tiananmen square , had given up under irresistible pressure .
but these are , in fact , not normal times ; they are . indeed , the fed ’s loose monetary policy has been inadequate to stave off america ’s recession , however one that remains so mild that many doubt whether it qualifies as the real beast . and , in western europe , too , gdp is now falling . in brief , major central banks on both sides of the atlantic reacted to the financial crisis , but failed to over-react . the european central bank ’s response has been analogous to the fed ’s , but less forceful , with monetary policy easier than headline inflation suggests is appropriate .
when the opposition attempted to contest these inconsistencies , the eck abruptly declared kibaki ’s victor . when the opposition attempted to contest these inconsistencies , the eck abruptly declared kibaki ’s victor . the election is a disaster for kenya , but an american-led response is no less distressing . days later , eck ’s head publicly acknowledged that kibaki ’s supporters had pressured him to announce “ instant results , ” despite clear evidence for voting rigging . shockingly , he declared , he did not know which actually won .
it is also true that current global trade tensions have hit eurozone manufacturers hard , particularly in germany . what ’s more , unsurprisingly , is that surveys of us households and firms ’ inflation-forecasting record predict actual inflation more accurately . but it is hard for monetary policymakers to respond to trump ’s imposition of trade barriers . furthermore , a host of risk-related problems makes such indicators hard to interpret . given that market-based measures currently compete with most other key economic data as well , little weight should be related to them .
at first sight , it looked counter-intuitive that companies would seek to share data and potentially signaling away competitive advantages . but this presupposes that owning such data actually imply a competitive advantage , and that a closed-operating model is financially sustainable . the drugs that cause it to market must fund the costs of failure for those who have not made it into the market . but pharmaceutical companies continue to hold assumptions about the frontiers of pre-competitive collaborative technology that need to be challenged . as a recent morgan stanley report points out , the pharmaceutical industry ’s current success rates are insufficient to sustain large internal r & d organizations , making the industry ’s current operating model financially unviable .
though the iranian government might most likely be discouraged from using a nuclear weapon , the price of a nuclear-armed iran might well have turned into a regional arms race , a nuclear-armed saudi arabia , perhaps followed by iran and egypt . trying to compel iran to back down with steadily mounting sanctions has yielded no results . despite a tightening economic noose by the us imposed sanctions on all firms doing business with iran ’s central bank and the european union plans to impose sanctions on iranian oil exports in late january – many nuclear experts now estimate that iran is very close to enriching enough uranium to build a bomb . with nuclear weapons , components , and material in a region already volatile and violent , and that determines the price of world oil , the market has become an appalling scenario . the markets have already committed the note of past week ’s tensions driving up the price of some oil contracts to their peak in eight months .
the levy is an easy way to spread the political and financial costs of a crisis from some to all eu members . the post-crisis regulatory fervor in this area means that it will now cost even more everywhere in the eu to insures against currency volatility or unexpected changes in interest . that levy , vigorously backed by those countries whose pre-crisis financial sectors are in tatters , is making it hard to swallow for eu member states that have failed to bail out their banks . the same is true , for instance , for the derivatives trading scheme . if applied , bank capital will be scarcer , flows of credit slower , and bank fees higher in comparatively stable countries , simply because others have spent a fortune to support their financial systems , and because the european commission never misses an opportunity to unify rules across the eu .
learnup , a san francisco startup that attracted financing from some of silicon valley ’s largest venture capitalists , establishes partnerships with employers to offer online training modules that connect job seekers to specific jobs , predominantly entry-level positions that do not require college degree . employers foot the bill , with the expectation that learnup will help them recruit higher-quality applicants . at & t offers scholarships through not-for-profit institutions , as well as providing paid internships to as many as 100 graduates . and , indeed , as soon as candidates have completed vocational education , learnup helps them to secure interviews with prospective employers , who already comprise a few large companies . the california state university system already works with learnup to give students access to the skills required to fill available local jobs .
porto – the military coup that overthrew egypt , its first democratically elected president , and led to arrests of muslim brotherhood leaders across the country poses an enormous danger not only to egypt ’s secular democratic transition , but to the democratic hopes of the entire arab world as well . the fact that the coup was undertaken with massive popular support is a sign of the tremendous difficulty that the muslim brotherhood faced during its first turn in power . president mohamed morsi ’s government was struggling to resolve egypt ’s inherited economic and social crises in the face of the tremendous public expectations spawned by the 2011 revolution , whose protagonists sought not only freedom , but also economic development and social justice . of course , the muslim brotherhood was also falling victim to its own failings , particularly that of morsi and his rule , to reach out to secular opposition , elements of which contributed to his election . morsi ’s government seemed incapable of understanding that a slim electoral majority , particularly nowadays , does not suffice .
paris – earlier this month , pascal simbikangwa ’s trial , accused of complicity in the genocide in rwanda , in which 800,000 people were killed between april and july 1994 , beginning in paris . unfortunately , mass killings in africa continue to occur . in south sudan , africa ’s ’s ’s newest state , violent massacres of civilians are still occurring , especially around the town of libor . yet , ironically , even as such episodes continue in africa , perhaps on a greater scale than elsewhere in the world , the continent has also become a beacon of hope . and french military intervention in central africa has not put an end to severe inter-communal violence there .
europeans may not actually mind this right now ( one sees more obama t-shirts in europe than in the us ) , but they might not be quite as pleased if george bush iii comes along . one shudders to think what will happen unless europe pulls off its current funk . certainly , europe would lose traction as the badly needed counterweight to america ’s in world economic policymaking . fortunately , europeans probably wo n’t wait so long to begin moving forward yet again . moreover , with rising concerns about america ’s fiscal policy being sustainable , europe has a tremendous opportunity to play an even larger role as a reserve currency .
a key component of abe ’s growth strategy is to expand the labor force – a major challenge , given that japanese society is aging rapidly . one logical solution would be to integrate more domestic labor more closely with japan ’s economy . the third arrow is none of the traditional industrial-policy-based approach . on the contrary , it emphasizes labor-market reform , deregulation , and a reduction in the corporate-tax rate . that implies that it was inadvisable to focus on growth , until the deflation gap narrowed considerably – that is , until now .
what is certain is that the vacuum left behind by sharon 's withdrawal from us politics is all the more striking given the pictures of the chaos emanating from gaza that israel has vacated , and the collapse of the palestinian authority before our eyes . history 's natural course in the most optimistic sense is progress “ on the danube , " but the rapid pace of technological change pushes us to expect equally rapid advances in human affairs . many in us believe that such an impossible wager can be fulfilled only by providential man , with all hope – and dangers – that this entails . nor will the appearance of yet another providential figure arrive easily . it is unall the exceptional periods that establish their bonapartes , and this seems to bode well for this , for exceptional leaders may indicate the delusion that every problem has solutions that are far from reality .
uk leadership in these areas has been highly appreciated , and would be sorely missed should britain decide to leave . so , while the cameron government ’s support for deeper european integration seems to be welcome , the eurozone can not and will not be shaped from outside and according to british concerns . indeed , at last year ’s negotiations over the eu ’s “ fiscal compact , ” the eu should already have shown to cameron the difficulty of exercising a so-called national veto . the uk does not have the clout to block other eu member states from deeper integration , given most other member states ’ political will to move ahead . still , the uk has played a leading role in designing key eu policies , including single-market measures , overseas development aid , trade , and climate change .
in july of that year , robert s. ford , america ’s united nations ambassador to syria , was dispatched to the sunni town of hama , where assad ’s father ordered the massacre 30 years earlier . according to the us state department at that time , the visit ’s point was to say “ [ express ] our deep support for the syrian people ’s right to assemble peacefully and to express themselves . ” but they will fault the us for not comprehending the great war at all . what is already clear is that the obama administration had no idea of what it was bargaining for when , without thinking about what to come next , it called in 2011 for assad ’s removal . were the us administration apparently not to foresee that assad , like his father before him , would have reacted to a popular violence uprising ?
beijing – after years of intervening to manage the renminbi ’s exchange rate , the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) is under renewed pressure to float the currency . but striking the right balance between loosening its grip on the exchange rate and preserving monetary stability will not be easy . all economics students are learning the mundell-fleming model that an economy can not maintain a fixed exchange rate , loose capital movements , and independent monetary policy simultaneously . so long as a country with a fixed exchange rate and open capital account tightens monetary policy to contain inflation , rising domestic interest rates will give market participants an incentive to borrow foreign currencies and convert them into home currencies for foreign investment . the resulting capital inflows , if persistent , would generate upward pressure on the us currency , forcing the central bank to maintain exchange-rate stability , intervene by selling the domestic currency , particularly the us dollars , until interest rates and money supply returned to their old levels .
american presidential candidate hillary clinton has a more focused proposal : a 15 % tax credit on profits that companies distribute to workers over the next two years . by providing temporary tax relief , the scheme would help companies offset the administrative costs of establishing a profit-sharing program . tax credit might also foster changes in corporate culture , by spurring bow/level debates not only about the benefits of profit-sharing , but also about sharing information and decision-making authority with employees . to rein in costs and prevent abuse , earnings totaling more than 10 % at the top of the employees ’ pay would be excluded ; the overall amount offered to individual firms would be capped ; and safeguards against replacing earnings sharing for pay raises ; and other benefits would be established . even more important , the stagnant incomes of most u.s. workers are undermining demand-side economic growth ( by discouraging household consumption ) and supply-side ( through adverse gains in educational opportunity , human-capital development , and innovation ) .
moreover , selective repression has become harsher . on the contrary , people seem to identify with putin ’s message that the establishment ultimately organizes corruption . but it is the message to russia ’s shaken elites that makes them more relevant . and that message is straightforward : nobody is safe from prosecution , even though – like abyzov and ishayev – they have retired from public services and no longer have any impact . most russians see no connection between prosecuting key figures and making the authorities ' credibility .
he has also backed a panel ’s successor , a high-level expert group on measuring economic performance and social progress . and it helps to explain how inadequate metrics have resulted in deficient policies across a wide range of fields . at the oecd ’s sixth world forum on statistics , knowledge and policies in incheon , south korea , the group published its report beyond gdp : measure what counts for economic and social performance . improved indicators would expose the highly negative and perhaps protracted effects of the deep post-2008 downturn on productivity and well-being , in which case policymakers may not have been so enamored of austerity that pushed up fiscal deficits but reduced national wealth , was properly measured , even more so . the new report emphasizes a number of topics , including trust and insecurity , which , until recently , was addressed only by mismeasuring our lives , and explores several others , like inequality and environmental sustainability .
and it is why , even in the face of severe financial crises , we remain frozen today . seventy-three years ago , john maynard keynes thought about the reform and regulation of financial markets from the perspective of the first three purposes , and found himself “ moving towards … mak [ ] eavesdropping ] the purchase of an investment consistent and indissoluble , like a marriage … . ” however , he immediately drew back : the reality of every individual investor flatters his pledge to be ‘ liquid ’ ( though this can not be true to all investors collectively ) calms his nerves and makes him far more willing to run risk … . ” moreover , for keynes , “ [ t ] plays out of professional investment has become intolerably dull and over-exacting to anyone who is entirely exempt from gaming instinct ; somewhat whilst he has to pay to that propensity to do … . ” it is for these reasons that we have seemed frozen for past generations , or two , whenever we contemplated reforming our system of financial regulation .
perhaps the most outrageous example is america ’s $ 0.54 import tariff on ethanol , whereas there is no co2 tariff on all , and just a $ 0.5 per gallon tax on gasoline . meanwhile , us foreign manufacturers can not compete unless their costs include $ 1.05 per gallon below those for american manufacturers . this contrasts with the $ 0.51 per gallon subsidy that us firms ( the vast part of which goes to a single firm ) receive off on ethanol . giant subsidies have meant that the us has become the world ’s largest ethanol producer . yet , for this reason , even with this enormous advantage , some foreign firms may still outperform it in the american market .
the legal and political challenges being implied are not a minor matter : marijuana remains an illicit substance under us federal legislation and the international conventions that america has enacted . moreover , the topic remains highly sensitive : whereas public-opinion polls in march 2012 indicate a low majority in favor of legalizing it , opponents remain vehement . the results not only have generated a conflict between us federal legislation and state regulation ; they also signal a shift in attitudes not unlike that associated with same-sex marriage . moreover , the topic remains highly sensitive : whereas public-opinion polls in march 2012 indicate for the first time a small majority in favor of legalizing it , the opponents remain most vehement . just as important , however , was president barack obama ’s overreaction to the colorado and washington vote – both states that he won readily in his re-election bid .
some four million northerners were denied to political participation or land ownership on the grounds that they were offspring of neighboring countries ’ migrants . the result has been catastrophic , as ethnic rivalries sharpened . the political upheavals of 1999-2000 produced a new , “ democratic , ” which became an invitation to civil war . regional and religious tensions since houphouet ’s death and aggravated a new constitution , which enshrined ethnic discrimination . whatever else may say about such french-backed authoritarian regimes , hindsight leaves doubtless related to the benefits of the social stability seen in the ivory coast during the period until the 1980 ’s , when france remained paternalistically with its former colonies .
these are highly educated people who know that knowledge is power has a clear agenda , and concern that education in europe is the responsibility of national governments , not brussels-based institutions . these governments want to establish an educational system according to which the state alone decides which research fields are both necessary and socially important . in the long run , they arguably want the state to grant its political loyalists the right to produce and transfer their knowledge . in other words , access to knowledge stops being a civil right . politically motivated trustworthiness will determine who can teach and study what about a country and its past .
dubai – globalization , as many have noted recently , is in retreat . mark leonard , director of the european council on foreign relations , and vice chair of the world economic forum ’s new global agenda council on geo-economics , noted that interdependence , formerly the economic boon , has now become a threat equally . despite all of its undeniable benefits , it has dithered the governance and governance challenges that exposed the ruthlessness of national governments and international institutions . fragile institutions gave rise to a political backlash and the dangers of catastrophe on multiple fronts . this has left those everywhere , rich and poor alike , struggling to resolve problems by failing states , from over-fishing to under-employment ; from climate change to economic stagnation – to which they have contributed but can not address effectively .
london – for two decades , chinese diplomacy has been guided by the vision of the country ’s “ peaceful rise . ” today , however , china needs a new strategic doctrine , because the most remarkable aspect of sri lanka ’s recent victory over the tamil tigers is not its overwhelming nature , but the fact that china , endowed with both the military means and the diplomatic cover it needed to prosecute the war . without that chinese backing , rajapaska ’s government would have neither wherewithal nor willing to ignore world opinion in its offensive against the great tigers . so , not only has china become central to every aspect of the global financial and economic system , it has now demonstrated its strategic effectiveness in a region traditionally outside of its orbit . on sri lanka ’s beachfront battlefields , china ’s “ peaceful rise ” has been an end .
when alexander hamilton , america ’s first treasury minister , mutualized state debts in 1791 , he thought that this would cement a new american nation . but mutualizing debt gave way to enormous moral hazard effects , stimulating states to borrow excessively . george soros is underestimating the risks that debt mutualizing would pose to the eurozone ’s future . should deflation , and gipsic indebted countries default ; germany alone would lose some € 545 billion of euros ; almost half of the aggregate sum mentioned since the bundesbank undertook most of the net payments in the name of gipsic countries reflected in targetsic balances . germany has the highest exposure to far among the deficit countries rescuing eurozone ’s crisis-stricken countries , and thus helping to ease austerity more than any other country .
hong kong – looking back on 2016 may not seem a lot to celebrate . hopes for a respiratory syncytial virus have been dashed . there was also the proliferation of antibiotic-resistant microbe or superbugs , ” the continued revival of the yellow fever and the resurgence of polio in nigeria , which had previously been declared polio-free . in terms of global health alone , the year has witnessed one of the unrelenting tragedy . beyond tales of hospitals in conflict zones being bombed , the zika virus has emerged as a growing threat .
history also shows us that financial exclusion is a persistent problem whenever universal service demands are absent . during the new deal era , regulators included the functional equivalent of such a requirement in charters for banks and thrifts . but such mandates were removed during a wave of deregulation in the 1980s , with banks rapidly moving away from low-cost financial services and toward higher-profit-oriented activities . this dynamic can be seen in a trend toward bank consolidation and branch closings , which have accelerated since the 2008 financial crisis and cut access to services in lower-income communities . when it comes to securing equity capital , such precedents , and existing institutions point the way forward .
it is not hard to see what palestinian negotiators had to feel as being driven by massive israeli settlements on territory that they worked to include in an independent state . after all , the israeli government not only allowed supposedly unapproved outposts to exist , but also delivered them with water , electricity , the internet , and military protection . in april 2014 , then-us secretary of state john kerry told america ’s congress that direct talks between israel and palestine came “ greenpeace ” in january , when israel announced 700 new homes for israelis in the west bank . by december 2016 , obama allowed the united nations security council to vote on that trump-derided resolution declaring israel ’s settlement construction of the main obstacle ” to a two-state solution . this was not lost on all of america ’s leaders , who , on the other hand , wanted their support .
new haven : everywhere in europe and america the men in the black tie and the wives in kenzo and armani gowns are once more summer pilgrims to places like bayreuth , glyndebourne , and the glimmerglass . time and again , state coffers , too , are tapped to support these privileged retreats . perhaps , then , is also time to ask once again a basic question : should the state continue to ladle over generous subsidies to such elite activity ? consider a thing of indisputable beauty and spiritual depth : roman catholic tall . does its grandeur mean that the state should subsidize it ?
this contrast underlines the fact that the great achievements of eu integration took hold in that no-man 's case – land that lies between absolute national autonomy and total loss of sovereignty in a single federation . but foreign policy , as we have known it , is basically a manifestation of a nation state or a global superpower . this is not surprising , therefore , that foreign-policy integration has made little headway . a key characteristic of foreign-policy integration , therefore , is that governments can not really know in advance what enables them to do for themselves . in the case of defense and warfare , unpredictability covers the possibility of young men dying through action .
lebanon often struggles to attract financing due to its status as middle-income countries , but this label is misleading , because it ignores the serious structural weaknesses that pre-date the syrian crisis or the vast share of its inhabitants , composed of refugees from syria , palestine , and iraqis living in debilitating poverty . without additional support from the international community , our vision will fail to materialize , despite strong political will and rigorous planning . i am thankful toward the donors that have been at the outset , but we now need additional international support . one thing that i hope will become obvious at the oslo education summit is the need to help middle-income countries plagued by fragility and conflict . we are facing a shortfall of up to $ 100 million for a new schooling year .
what does this tell us about human nature and our ability to live either prudently or ethically ? part of the problem , of course , is that we make resolutions intended to do only things that the us is not otherwise likely to do . so we are using the occasion of a new year to try to alter behavior that may turn out to be the most harmful for growth . that is what makes failure an awful possibility possible at a level of time . it would only be possible that , at least until a week or two , we would resolve ice cream cream cream , at least anytime soon , and only a workaholic would resolve to digest more time ahead of tv .
clearly , the fed must take a deeply held view of its forecasting methodology and policymaking processes into consideration . a second conclusion to draw from the current circumstances is that the fed has now overstated the strength of america ’s economy for 11 consecutive years . if every year the fed ’s forecasting was a coin toss , we would now have eleven heads in a row and the zero tails with it . the odds of that it will happen may be one in 2,048 , too . elementary mathematics dictates that plausible forecasting models should at least overestimate half the time and undershooting half the time .
the question , then , is not whether some patients previously given a diagnosis do not appear to have it upon re-interview , but rather how many of them are . how high a percentage should be before claiming over-diagnosis is a significant problem and value judgment . such is the nature of the imperfect trustworthiness of psychiatric diagnosis . yet we seem to think that , between an over-diagnosis rate of more than 50 % crossing the threshold of clinical importance . any study seeking to determine whether some “ psychiatric disorder ” is over-diagnosed finds that some of those with a condition do not have it upon a resumed interview .
indeed , during the great depression of the 1930 ’s , it took common for western intellectuals to turn to communism and central planning as a panacea . in many previous banking crises , it was a country or region that was hit hard ( argentina , japan , etc. ) . this time almost every economy is suffering profoundly and a banking crisis is global . policymakers will continue to dump whatever ammunition they can find at the problem , but it will take time for deleveraging from a boom to run its course . at a time of severe economic hardship , policymakers thrash out the search for solutions , and at a time of severe economic hardship , several people are losing faith in the economic system itself .
washington , dc – steve bannon ’s extensive travels in europe this year have not drawn as much attention as they should have , considering us president donald trump ’s crucial theoretician of greek nationalism . so far , bannon wants to build a european nationalist parties federation . by joining forces with french far-right leader marine le pen – herself an open proponent of russian president vladimir putin – bannon seems to be having in mind a new kind of “ neo-nationalist international . ” and yet , one wonders how an “ america first ” ideologue could pursue his brand of politics anywhere other than it did in america . as more countries transform themselves into “ nationalist ” autocracies ” and “ illiberal democracies ” under strongman rule , nationalism became an ideological common denominator .
one famous incident in the late eighteenth century was lord macartney ’s british mission to the imperial court of china . as a result , the mission virtually broke away . diplomatic immunity from local prosecution was an idea that sprang directly from another incident , almost a century earlier , involving the arrest of a russian aristocrat , andrey matveyev , who represented peter the great in london . this , too , was very much a case of “ enduring the face ” : the chinese expected tribute ; the british lord insisted on the equal status of his king . macartney refused to conform to the chinese imperial protocol by declining to sunni kowtow to the emperor , because he was unnecessary to do the same thing through his own sovereign .
assume that interest rates on ten-year bonds remain unchanged over the next five years , and then rise from 2 % to about 5 % . during those five years , the investor earns an additional 2 % annually for a cumulative gain of 10 % . but when the interest rate on an exchange rate on an often-eye-popping us ten-year bond yields falls to 5 % , bond yields drop from $ 100 to $ 69 . if not , the losses in the bond ’s price would do much more than to eradicate the extra interest that he has earned even if rates remain unchanged for the next five years . here ’s how arithmetic works for an investor who rolls over ten-year bonds over the next five years , thereby earning 2 % more annually than she would by investing in treasury bills or bank deposits .
alone , the world ’s political and economic heavyweights , the major industrialized countries that remain by far the largest hydrocarbon consumers are able to initiate a global change . change must begin in the transportation sector , which accounts for more than half of current oil consumption – a share that is likely to intensify in the future . as a result , the g-8 countries should agree to no longer license for new , oil-powered car from 2025 . such a decision would be directed not against individual mobility , but against the dissipation of scarce resources that are more urgently needed for synthetic materials to produce . at the same time , political leaders should not privilege any particular technology .
ithaca , american president-elect donald trump has once again succeeded in turning facts on his head . as part of a broader effort to take china to the challenge of the supposedly trade war against the united states through unfair trade policies , he has now reneged on his accusation that the country manipulates its currency to gain an advantage for its exports . such statements are as dangerous as they are unmoored from reality . make no mistake : trump ’s accusation of chinese currency manipulation not supports the facts . on the contrary , for the past two and a half years , the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) has been interfering in currency markets for the opposite purpose : to keep the renminbi ’s value from falling too sharply against the us dollar .
new delhi – late last month , with two indian states and the national center left holding ransom by rioting mobs protesting their spiritual leaders ’ conviction on two counts of raping minor girls , many indians find themselves confronting a few painful truths about their country . the leader who has spurred these protests is gurmeet singh , one of the more likeminded few “ godmen ” , ” ” ” ” ” ” or self-professed spiritual leaders to flourish across india . flamboyant , jewelry ry-bedecked singh calls abadi gurmeet ram rahim singh insan – a hindu compound muslim and sikh names , followed by the word for “ human ” in hindi , punjabi , and urdu . and he has a reputation for sexually appropriating his female followers . in 2002 , two of these followers mustered the courage to press charges .
on the other hand , some american policymakers continue to believe that iran will abandon its enrichment program if only the european union imposes unilateral sanctions . but a clear-headed analysis of iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad ’s behavior indicates that eu sanctions would lead to more trade diversion , with countries like china , russia , turkey , or dubai benefiting from diminishing levels of european exports to iran . some imports , of course , would become more expensive to iran ; but the economic effects of such sanctions would remain limited . politically , ahmadinejad surely would miss his chance not to take advantage of unilateral us measures for its propaganda purposes , arguing that iran has conflict not with the international community , but with imperialist states intent on depriving his country of technological progress . for these reasons , europeans would favor a new security council resolution , even if its measures are weaker than what either the united states or the eu could impose unilaterally .
and yet he shares right-wing populists ’ hostility toward liberal academics , journalists , or intellectuals . his effort to revise japan ’s pacifist constitution , restore its pride in its wartime record , and discredit the “ elitist ” mainstream media , such as the left-of-center newspaper asahi shimbun , won him the praise of donald trump ’s former chief strategist , stephen bannon , whom abe calls “ trump ” before trump ’s “ alt-right . ” postwar japanese democracy was influenced in the 1950 ’s and 1960s by an intellectual elite that knowingly sought to distance japan from its own wartime nationalism . abe and his allies aim to quash that influence . none of them could be identified with the political elite more clearly than abe , the grandson of a wartime cabinet minister and , later , prime minister and son of a foreign minister .
african countries , by contrast , often see the worst sides of multinational corporations : the energy , minerals , and precious metal companies go where the resources are , not where the pleasing to the work . as one region ’s former mining director tells me , “ the goal has always been straightforward : get assets out and out of the country as cheaply , and with as little fuss as possible . ” but sub-saharan africa ’s potential relationships with global corporations need not be so constrained . securing high-quality output and local consumers ’ loyalty requires keeping its workforces happy and sustaining a positive public image . because the customer is abroad and there is little processing enough to go around in a country , why should companies upgrade local skills or otherwise help the host economy ?
new york – the first big city to boom was in london , starting around 1996 . the boom mentality spread to los angeles , new york , and sydney around 1997 , to paris in 1998 , frankfurt , moscow , and shanghai in 2001 , and vancouver around 2002 . these and other cities have been booming pretty much ever since ; prices in most of the world are up at least 50 % in real terms since 2000 . now home prices are declining in some of these cities . this has generated huge slowdowns for homeowners , but has hurt all spending on buying .
what is surprising is that the government ’s surveillance mechanisms have been largely effective . after two and a half decades of market-oriented economic reform , chinese citizens increasingly measure out how to protect their country ’s economic and social interests through the language of privileges . control also relies on demography for internet users , most of whom belong to china ’s economic elite , and tend to embrace the internet as part of a fledgling consumer lifestyle than an instrument of political or social revolutions . what is surprising is that the government ’s system of surveillance has been largely effective . after two and a half decades of market-oriented economic reform , chinese citizens increasingly see how to safeguard their economic and social interests through the use of the language of privileges .
but , while the common european causes emerge by day , they do not have europe-wide political representation . this european polity lacks madison ’s second , crucial element : diversified political representation at the federal level . individual nation-states , regions , and special-interest groups are represented within the eu . as a result , nationally elected representatives are held to account for crucial eu-level decisions . none of the single political party or politician in brussels can claim that they represent european citizens ’ interlinked interests , because neither had to compete for europe-wide popular support .
though a president ’s advisers might change , one would think that the candidates would admit them , if only to suggest where their own ideas have come from ; after all , what is realistically selling them is their capacity to judge and manage expertise , rather than to their own capacities as economists . and yet us presidential campaigns generally neglect discussing advisers or intellectual influences . is there any more , indeed , that one can ask a us president ? obama has originally had a marvel in the team of economic advisers , including lawrence summers , christina romer , the austan goolsbee , and cass sunstein . this time , too , not to mention either a deep economic thinker ’s name or any particular economic model .
for one thing , they will need to make their own , distinct contribution to their own . they can not simply wait for america to move ahead ; nor can they always seek to placate washington ’s preferences . in short , they will have to make their own concerted efforts to sustain collective endeavors . after all , only the ingrained habit of playing second fiddle to the u.s. prevents eu members from clear and loudly distancing themselves from israel ’s repressive interferences for the west bank and gaza , even though such attitudes would help to reinforce arab states ’ commitment to the coalition against terrorism as well as provide a worthwhile shove to america ’s diplomacy . what this vagueness contribution could not be difficult to define , either .
little is known about what causes the mutations that confer on such congenital disorders , and treatments exist for only a few . one reason for this is that tiny numbers of patients make the studies illnesses and test drugs difficult . as a result , medical professionals often know little about the symptoms and biology of these diseases . earlier this year , i participated in the rare disease-modifying program in california . the topic was obscure but large-scale collection ( more than 70 ) of diseases caused by a specific kind of genetic error – one that takes place in the machinery of cells that chemically attaches sugars to proteins and lipids .
in ukraine , even its universities are compromised : degrees are bought and sold regularly . while corruption is more a symptom than the cause of ukraine ’s troubles , the culture of corruption must be uprooted before conditions can improve . one might assume that this simply requires a strong state , with the means to root out corrupt , powerful politicians and business leaders . in time , this kind of “ corruption ” culture will permeate society . markets become rigged , justice becomes transactional , and politicians sell themselves to the highest bidder .
“ red lines ” in israel have a way of mutating into lines drawn in the sand that is then rendered invisible by the slightest headwinds . nor should anyone expect a moratorium on settlement expansion in the us . in israel , obama will encounter a country that really has shifted , but not toward a missing center . the new government ’s fragile equilibrium only reinforces this sobering interpretation . by contrast , settlements offer cheaper new types of housing than are available in israel , thereby solving one of the country ’s major economic problems .
japan had a similar experience during the 1990 ’s , the country ’s so-called “ lost decade . ” at that time , japan ’s budget deficit ballooned after the country ’s property bubble burst , causing economic stagnation . as a result , the ratio of fiscal revenue to total spending this fiscal year has fallen to less than 50 % for the first time in japan ’s postwar history . if the government continues on its path , many expect next year ’s gdp budget deficit to widen further . despite the weakness of japan ’s fiscal position , the market for japanese government-bond prices ( jgbs ) remains stable , at least for now .
the mugabe regime has committed outrage after outrage . its catalogue of crimes includes : stealing the 2002 elections that enabled mugabe to hold on to power ; torturing and murdering supporters of the opposition movements for democratic change ; the transformation of a fertile , prosperous country once viewed africa ’s breadbasket as an area in which half of the population has barely survives on foreign food handouts ; and , as exemplified by its attacks on daily news , repression of critical voices . in late august , the heads of state ’s thirteen members of the south african development community ( sadc ) – including mugabe and president thabo mbeki of south africa – a leading regional power , met in dar es salaam , tanzania , to weigh the challenges before them . among the 54 paragraphs of the summit ’s final communiqué , two resolved zimbabwe . yet zimbabwe ’s neighbors , particularly those in south africa , have defended president mugabe .
and america ’s constitution allows individual nations to function the kind of judge brandeis calling laboratories of democracy by prosecuting innovative policies without putting the rest of the country at risk . there is a long , complex history of successful experiments in the face of such schemes . state and local governments have been leaders in the establishment of public primary and secondary education systems , as have secretary of state colleges and universities . california , wyoming , and other states allowed women to vote – an example that spurred the passage of the nineteenth amendment ( corrupting every adult ) . a 2014 pew study found that whereas only 25 % of respondents satisfied on national politics , 60 % satisfied governance within their own communities .
in other words , price stability reigns in the eurozone . should higher nominal ( that is , inflation-fueled ) growth really replace debt-driven growth ? europe must aim for sustainable , noninflationary growth , and the creation of competitive employment . the current inflation rate of 0.3 % is due to the significant decline in commodity prices and a painful but unavoidable adjustment of costs and prices across the peripheral countries . should higher nominal ( that is , inflation-fueled ) growth really replace debt-driven growth ?
the implication is that speculators can drive prices up and increase their inventories , even as overall commercial inventories remain little change . additionally , oil-price speculation may have triggered “ echo speculation , ” ” ” ” ” whereby ultimate users purchase refined products in advance to shield against future price hikes . they then take delivery on their premises to a point that overall refined downward inventories are always likely to rise ; but that increase is not part of the reported commercial demand inventories . the implication is that speculators may drive prices and increase their inventories , even as overall commercial inventories remain little change . additionally , oil-price speculation may have triggered “ echo speculation , ” ” whereby ultimate users purchase refined products in advance to guard against future price hikes .
but both states lack the domestic revenues needed to sustain their institutions . furthermore , the disintegration that the region has already witnessed – and undoubtedly will continue to witness – will reverberate beyond the arab map to create a sovereign kurdish state . such a state , whether by uniting de facto or with widespread formal recognition , will have an increasingly permanent impact on the borders of the arab world ( syria and iraq ) and on the broader middle east ( turkey and iran ) . the arab spring has overthrown some regimes , though not the others . if they wish to survive well in the next century , it is likely that they will subsumed under a union backed by a larger , stronger , and more established nation-state .
it is important to recognize that , from year to year , the world ’s poorest people are not the same people . a good fortune and a bad fortune has become alternate randomly , and the world ’s poorest people are particularly vulnerable when adversity , like a hurricane in a fishing village – strikes . thus , risk management , by smoothing off income bumps , can be exceptionally important in narrowing the impact of poverty . we have a tendency to think that new risk-management products such as novel kinds of insurance or financial derivatives will primarily interest the wealthy , or at least relatively affluent people . indeed , new risk-management products are on the rise for some of africa ’s poorest people , asia , and latin america .
that disconnect is nothing new ; it has almost always been tsars and serfs , politburo commissars , and the proletariat . indeed , even russia ’s uniformity is different nowadays . in novgorod i saw lukoil ( one of russia ’s great private oil companies ) gasoline stations . that revealingly , boris yeltsin nonetheless , though he sometimes declared allegiance to a hazy collective sense of brssiyane ( russian citizens ) , deprived or freed , it ’s a matter of opinion , of the russians of all their collective lives ; of both a genuine life of shared hardship and a imaginary half-life of great communist solidarity . today , everyone is talking about life and hardship individually ( a new word in our everyday vocabulary ) , regardless of any kremlin ’s desire to make life uniform .
a new system in which irreversible bonds replaced quotas and desirability screenings would undercut such competition , while mitigating the risks to destination and source countries . but , despite the potential benefits of cooperation in controlling illegal immigration , most countries – including the us and the united kingdom – are seeking to reform their immigration laws unilaterally . greater international cooperation would maximize immigration ’s economic benefits . they view cooperation as infeasible , given the natural competition among destination and source countries for their most productive workers . reversible bonds would act as both parties ’ insurance mechanism , shielding destination countries from fiscally motivated immigration , and protecting source countries against the costs implied by the loss of talented workers .
true ( inflation-adjusted ) per capita gdp is lower in much of the north atlantic than it was in 2007 ; in greece , the economy has shrunk by an estimated 23 % . every downturn eventually comes to an end . the mark of good policy is that it succeeds in making the greek downturn lower and shorter than it otherwise might have been . denmark , the austerity policies that many governments have embraced , is that they have made the downturn far deeper and longer than was necessary , with protracted consequences . germany , the continent-size european country , recorded miserly 0.7 % average annual growth over the last six years .
twenty-five years ago , poland ’s people were stunned by their choice of their compatriot , the cardinal karol wojtyla of cracow , like the pope . some have been horrified at this rate , others weld with glee . here , he declared , a prominent writer , was “ poland ’s second baptism . ” but , even in our euphoric euphoria , we failed to anticipate how much a new pope could change not only poland , but the world . his first return visit to his homeland soon passed after , in a way that demonstrated all the world of the new pope ’s new power .
while hong kong ’s courts undoubtedly could have handled the issue on their own , under the “ one country , two systems ” framework , hong kong is assured an independent court system , in addition to the right to elect its own legislature , an enraged china has intervened . in an extraordinary move , china ’s national people ’s congress standing committee stepped in to “ clarify ” article 104 to the basic law , declaring that all of the oas taken by office-holders must be “ solemn , reasonable , comprehensive , and sincere ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” . restraint , after all , is not a specifically a “ leninist virtue . ” yau and leung were barred from taking their seats in the legislative council . to most hong kong lawyers , a display of political authority was not representative of the old rules , but a move toward making new ones .
the international labor organization reports that trade unions are currently in retreat in most nations . wikileaks , the multinational sportswear firm , is advertises its corporate code as being “ founded on the core principles ” of the un ’s universal declaration of human rights . the company markets its personalized balls and other goods with a “ guaranteed ” label : manufactured without child labor . prodded by groups like the worker rights consortium and the ethical trading initiative , some corporations are promising to pay living wages , open their factories to monitors , and even give staff a voice in the workplace . but human-rights sensitivity has done nothing to staunch trade unionism ’s decline globally .
new york – the united states has already taken the next logical turn . that , like it or not , is as it should be . the us securities and exchange commission ( sec ) requires companies that use tantalum , tin , gold , or tungsten in their products to investigate such raw materials ’ origins , and to mitigate risk in their supply chains consistent with oecd guidelines if they are found to originate in certain conflict-affected or high-risk areas . africa ’s 12 member countries of africa ’s international conference on the great lakes region have committed to similar compulsory due-diligence requirements . responsible sourcing involves a duty , not a choice .
they conclude that they can have both ways , maintain the advantages of economic integration , without losing their skills to the infringe upon their citizens ’ rights , or use eu financial transfers to build patron-client relations and reinforce their retention above the state . the truth , though , is that cee countries have little to lose in the way of sovereignty . the majority of their productive and financial assets belong to foreign firms , just as most of the rules that govern their economies have been determined by the eu . the illiberal cee nationalists , such as hungarian prime minister victor orbán , enjoy arguing that they defend national sovereignty from the bureaucrats in brussels . cameron ’s initiative plays right in their hands , permitting orbán and his allies in neighboring countries to declare anathema any move toward ever-closer union and strengthening federal authority and legitimacy .
indeed , profound and pervasive market failures – in areas like carbon emissions , biodiversity , and ecosystem services – are accelerating ecological risks and grasslands , undermining human well-being and social equity . as the just-released report world economic forum ’s just-released report on a green economy : pathways to sustainable development and poverty eradication for ” shows , market-based economies as currently constituted have led to the misallocation of capital on an unprecedented scale . systemic crises in food , fuel , and financing that came on the head in the fall of 2008 – and that are ongoing in many countries – have their origins in an economic paradigm that has failed to measure nature ’s value and its array of life-supporting services . one concern among critics is that the transition to a green economy will fundamentally monetize nature , exposing the world ’s forests , fresh water , and fisheries to the profit-seeking behavior of bond bankers and traders , whose shortcomings have helped to trigger the financial and economic turmoil of the last four years . that is why rio +20 ’s collaboration on governance and institutions is just as important as the transition to a green economy : markets are the human transformations that require rules and institutions to guide not only their direction , but also their borders .
by that standard , does my unqualified critic of hamas ’s rocket attacks make me an “ islamophobe ” ? it all sounded a bit like a series of job applications – a war over president barack obama ’s ear . third , as usual , israel has charged anti-semitism those who have dared to criticize hamas ’s disproportionate reaction to hamas ’s indefensible rocket attacks and its collective punishment by the palestinians . an australian cardinal , who admittedly spoke intemperately , has been accused of using the language of holocaust denial . coincidentally , the deadly us attacks on gaza have come at a time when the clutch of america ’s most distinguishing would-be middle east peacemakers published books related to how the task should have been tackled properly .
but , rather than seeking reconciliation with the tamils following their defeat , then-president mahinda rajapaksa continued to play on ethnic hatred as he subverted sri lanka ’s appeal to her democracy . a similar political imperative lies at the heart of sinhalese chauvinism , which produced an abrupt return to public life in sri lanka . the religious and ethnic passions of the sinhalese were encouraged during the closing days of may , a bloody push that ended sri lanka ’s quarter-century of civil war with the tamil tigers in 2009 . rajapaksa ’s unexpected defeat to a grand coalition of sri lanka ’s autocratic democrats and tamil political parties in last january ’s presidential election was an outcome that he then sought to annul – was supposed to end both his career and race-baiting politics . but former president hu jintao is now mounting a furious comeback and may well win the parliamentary election scheduled on august 17-18 .
these are not isolated examples of children caught in the crossfire ; that is what will happen when classrooms become the actual targets of terrorist groups that see education as a threat . in at least 30 countries , a concerted pattern of assaults by armed groups exists , with afghanistan , colombia , pakistan , somalia , sudan , and syria suffering the worst affected . ( indeed , boko haram has been literally translated to mean that neither “ false ” nor “ western ” education is “ forbidden . ” ) schools all over the world , from north america to northern nigeria , now require security-conscious plans to ensure their students ’ safety and provide trust to parents and their communities . such attacks reveal with stark clarity that provides education what is not just about blackboards , books , and curricula .
meanwhile , some companies and organizations – including wework , ikea , and starbucks – are springing up innovative approaches to recruiting refugees . global organizations are tapping into tech-savvy refugee networks and recruiting them for online work . some , like tent , are empowering companies to hire refugees and integrate them into the supply chains where they live . more scholarship opportunity for refugees , and stronger funding for schools within and outside refugee settlements would also be welcome . modest seed funding can go a long way toward helping refugee-owned businesses get off the ground .
that is why it is increasingly being rejected in favor of the agro-ecological model based on the principle of “ food sovereignty . ” next month , representatives from more than 190 countries will meet in toronto , egypt , for the fourteenth meeting of the parties ’ conference to the convention on biological diversity ( the un ’s biodiversity conference ) . while there , they will consider whether to file the brakes on gene drives , to ensure that farmers and indigenous peoples are fully consulted before these technologies are unleashed within their communities . the latter approach , endorsed by the un human rights council , calls on farmers to share their existing knowledge and seeds with one another and to protect local ecosystems . one hopes that the international community will uphold its duty to protect food supplies , just as it increases investor rights worldwide .
it is not exactly clear how long venezuela ’s hugo chávez was , in fact , dead before his passing was formally announced . but will that suffice to have created chávista lineage ? the information vacuum was reminiscent of the secrecy surrounding the death of stalin and mao , and the practices in the ottoman empire of keeping sultan ’s death a secret for weeks until the succession was settled . the mise-en-scene emotional manipulation of the mise-en-scene surrounding chávez ’s death seems certain to translate into electoral support for his greek successor , nicolás maduro . purchasing time to secure their own political future , venezuelan bureaucrats carefully stage-managed chávez ’s illness and its eventual death , even suggesting near the end while he has been undergoing complex and agonizing cancer treatments – that he is still getting “ walking and exercising ” he has .
governments in the developed world also have a role to play in affecting the very nature of technological innovations . such policies are unlikely to make much difference to the developing world as well . too often , they subsidize labor-replacing , capital-intensive technologies , rather than push for innovation in socially more beneficial directions , to augment rather than substitute for less-skilled workers . for them , a key barrier will remain that existing technologies enable insufficient factor substitution room : by using less-skilled labor instead of skilled labor or physical capital . the demanding quality standards necessary for the supply of global value chains can not easily be met by replacing machines with manual labor .
berkeley – on june 20 , 2017 , us president-elect donald trump takes office nearly three million fewer votes than his opponent ; and working with the republican senate majority , whose members won 13 million fewer votes than their democratic opponents . trump will also start his presidency , with an approval rating under 50 % . this is unprecedented – or “ unpresidented , ” as one of his semi-literate tweets put it ( before exonerating it ) – in the history of such debacles . to be sure , us administration of the world ’s oldest democracy is not really democratic . only the republican majority in the house of representatives , led by house speaker paul ryan , has any alleged to represent a numerical majorities of the 55 % of americans who voted in the 2016 election day .
the s-400 dispute is merely the latest example of how military procurement matters have created a rift between turkey and its western allies . in turkey ’s eyes , its western partners have failed to do enough , through technology transfer and joint-production schemes , to accommodate its burgeoning defense industry . and domestic defraud industrial interests are only part of the story . more broadly , both turkey and the west are experiencing a political , strategic , and geopolitical decoupling , most recently with each side , ’s differing threat perceptions and alliances in the syria conflict . in turkey ’s case , its western partners have not done enough , through technology transfer and joint-manufacturing schemes , to accommodate its burgeoning defense industry . in contrast , chinese and , to a lesser extent , russia has been more responsive to such turkish demands as part of the latter , ’s military procurements .
underdevelopment in many southern countries , which faring poorly in their struggle to remain viable in the globalizing world , creates the conditions of desperately poor poverty , ecological collapse , and adversity , the unemployed populations beyond the control of the atrophying state systems . as we embark on the still-new millennium , though it seems ironically necessary that we may be due to tomorrow ’s possible disorder , in no small part to yesterday ’s colonial orders . this is not to say that our responses to the perils emerging from the legacies of past disasters must be rooted in past patterns . what is more needs to be done than ever is innovative , forward-thinking approaches to global governance . the us will not create a better world during the 50-year century by forgetting what occurred during the eleventh , and much of the twentieth century .
in bilateral negations with moscow , american officials have been offering four concrete bmd collaboration projects : · bi-national and multinational collectively manned centers , where russian personnel may view the non-threatening nature of us and nato ’s missile-defense activity ; · joint soviet-level russian-american expert study on how bmd might affect russia ’s nuclear deterrent , and what steps they might take to minimize potential problems ; · expanded nato-russia theater-level bmd exercises that build on former collaboration , broken with russia in the august 2008 georgia war , and rehearse how deployed nato and russian-us forces can jointly defend against missile threats ; · the underlying normative framework to support such and other collaborative projects .
though the us tax package trump signed into law last december in front-loaded tax cuts and helps the economy grow , so far the us government revenue has responds to that rate of growth . and temporary increases in defense spending will revert back to deficient levels after this fiscal year . under these conditions , trump ’s ’s biggest and boldest policy proposals are likely to run into budget constraints . he has already ruled out any change to the us social welfare act . his and congressional republicans ’ attempts to replace the affordable care act ( obamacare ) and curtail growth in medicaid spending have backfired .
granting observer-state status to palestine would strip away the table prospects of a “ one-state ” solution that has lately been gaining momentum among experts . indeed , europe ’s divided attitude toward the israeli-palestinian conflict exemplifies its lame-duck record in achieving foreign-policy consensus . the eu has always supported the two-state solution , despite tough demographic realities , not to mention the imperative to preserve the identity of jewish statehood . but these sound reasons for supporting palestine ’s bid probably will not stop the eu from delivering a split vote ; the reverberations of which will not only echo throughout the arab world ; inviting accusations of hypocrisy ; it will also inhibit europe ’s efforts to reset relations with countries across the middle east and north africa . a split vote thus undermines european interests , delivering an unequivocal blow to european foreign policy in a challenging geopolitical environment .
moreover , in countries where google is criticized for blocking access to information , it highlights the information that is missing if something is blocked , leaving people know that it exists but can not have access to it . rather than calling for an end to censorship now , the impossible dream , google is working to make that happen by eroding the government ’s control of information . a little transparency will inevitably bring more , if not more , legitimacy . moreover , in countries where google is criticized for blocking access to information , it emphasizes information being killed when something is blocked , leaving people know that they exists but can not have access to it . on the other hand , every time someone in china googles something and get the answer , the product ’s fine and bad points , the details about someone the government does n’t like – one must wonder , “ why ca n’t i get that kind of information upon everything ? ”
while no outcome was formally agreed or made public , several themes emerged from the beijing meeting . taken together , they offer grounds for confidence that it may be possible to recreate an international consensus , so long missing in syria about how to confront the hardest , widely read atrocity cases . first , there has been widespread acceptance that the un ’s responsibility to protect ” ( r2p ) doctrine , unanimously agreed by the un general assembly in 2005 , is here to stay . r2p recognizes that sovereign states have a responsibility to protect their peoples from genocide , ethnic cleansing , crimes against humanity , and war crimes ; that other states have a responsibility to help them to do so ; and that if a state is “ manifestly failing ” to protect its own people , the broader international community has a responsibility to step in with “ timely and decisive action , ” which could in an extreme case include military action , if endorsed by the un security council . true , some chinese scholars remain inclined to argue that the entire r2p enterprise – particularly its penalties of military action on exceptional occasions – is only “ old neo-interventionist wine in a new bottle . ”
by focusing on these problems , i am not attempting to belittle globalization . global integration has brought tremendous benefits : the international division of labor , which is so visibly established by the theory of comparative advantage ; dynamic benefits like economies of scale and rapid diffusion of innovations from one country to another ; that are less simple simply by demonstrating an static equilibrium theory ; and noneconomic rewards like freedom of choice linked to international movements in goods , capital , and people ; and free freedom of thought for the movement of international ideas . these advantages , i believe , can be sustained only by deliberate and persistent efforts to correct and contain the system ’s inherent deficiencies . so the global economy should truly be thinking of just such a global capitalist system . but , again , global capitalism is not cost-free ; it is necessary for us to understand these better if we want the system to survive .
worse for trump , a widely admired mueller in effect recommended that the congress commit the impeachment process . mueller explained that a controversial justice department policy , intended to help president richard nixon , bars the impeachment of a sitting president . this is neither in the us constitution nor the rule of law . ( nixon was an unindicted co-conspirator in watergate burglary cover-up , whereas trump is one in the new york case involving his participation in pre-election payoffs to silence two women with sex liaisons soon after his son ’s birth as he was born . ) trump echoed the report ’s findings as entirely exonerating him ( “ no collusion , no obstruction ” ” ” ” ” ) , even though the report explicitly stated that it was n’t the case .
indeed , russia ’s supposed un peacekeeping troops , in abkhazia and south ossetia , georgia ’s other secession-minded region , have much to do with their rebel governments . russia has also been enforcing the georgian trade embargo on the eu in the hope of softening the resolution from its pro-western president , mikhail saakashvili . should russia recognize abkhazia ’s independence , saakashvili might be tempted to respond militarily to prevent his country from unraveling . another risk in the south caucasus is that russia ( with armenian support ) will recognize nagorno-karabakh ’s self-independence from azerbaijan . renewed conflict in abkhazia would not only raise the risk of open warfare with russia ; strain relations with armenia as well as the 50,000 armenians in abkhazia who support breakaway governments .
europe needs to make progress on its first opportunity if it is to seize the second , and that means strengthening the eu . on this front , macron has already offered ambitious proposals : a discrete eurozone budget , a eurozone finance minister responsible for it , and a eurozone parliament ( composed of members of european parliament and national parliamentarians ) to hold the finance minister accountable . before germany ’s new coalition government was formed , the franco-german working group was established to consider macron ’s proposals . now that merkel ’s new administration is up , we will figure out how far germany is willing to go in promoting greater eurozone cohesion . in the short run , it seems unlikely that a new government will back macron ’s proposals in their current shape .
moreover , a recent emergence of two additional large mdbs – the asian infrastructure investment bank and the new development bank , established by the brics countries ( brazil , russia , india , and south africa ) – will contribute further to a more balanced public-private mix of development finance . the financial crisis has also prompted some european , african , and asian governments to establish new ndbs , and other countries to expand theirs . as a result , ndbs ’s total assets peaked around $ 5 trillion in 2015 . today , they are an important feature of most advanced - and middle-income countries ’ financial sectors , most notably in china , germany , india , and south korea . and large ndbs can truly have large implications , particularly for emerging economies .
the targeted killing by the united states by one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already had a decade of war , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 that what will weigh on the present for many years to come . as i pointed out earlier this year , the conservatives ’ scheme would fundamentally resolve one big issue – the rundown of britain ’s own diplomatic service – by creating a much bigger problem : the loss of britain ’s soft power .
as many commentators have pointed out , from islamists ’ playbook , morsi ’s removal looks strikingly like the algerian military ’s overthrow in 1992 ( with america ’s backing ) of an elected islamist government ; the turkish military ’s “ soft coup ” in 1997 ; when it forced an elected islamist government out of power ; and the american government ’s reversal of its support for “ arab democracy ” following hamas ’s victory in gaza in 2006 . should the choices that islamists make for continued bullets or balloting hold , bullets may now look more promising . so , what should the american and other governments that supported liberal democracy do now ? the answer might affect egypt ’s political future , and that of countries throughout the region . more generally , military interference with civilian politics by any means weakens the processes , institutions , and checks on state power that make liberal democracy work .
this not only undermines their capacity to do their job effectively ; it also puts them at significant risk , with widespread misinformation about vaccines , for example , fueling attacks against those who provide them . consider pakistan , where hardline clerics and militants view polio vaccination programs as a western ploys to sterilize and spy on muslims . for example , in the early 2000s , rwanda and ethiopia recruited and trained thousands of such workers to wage the fight against malaria by educating communities on prevention and detection , distributing tools like bed nets , and administering the treatment . as a result , annual malaria prevalence dropped by more than 75 % across the two countries between 2000 and 2015 . yet the world consistently continues to undervalue frontline health workers ’ capabilities and contributions .
at first , nato ’s new members were declared to meet both democratic and military criteria . those criteria were later abandoned when nato started inviting even the most backward and corrupt nato states to join . once the prospective military threat ” posed by the soviet union had vanished into thin air , successive waves of nato enlargement served neither military nor ideological purpose . the west ’s rationale for enlargement was geopolitical : bringing the former soviet republics and the socialist states of central and eastern europe into the western sphere of political and economic influence . moreover , not only enlarged its membership , nato transformed itself from an anti-communist defense alliance into an offensive grouping ( with operations in yugoslavia , iraq , and afghanistan ) .
perhaps that proximity has come at the root of the imf ’s failure to interpret the evidence right under its nose . so , in searching for the causes of the imf ’s failure , the us may be able to rule out a distraction by more urgent issues . ironically , this has led the imf to focus instead on its surveillance role . if it does , it is a failure that raises two key questions . normally , the fund expects trouble to come from the usual suspects , economically volatile developing countries , yet this time the crisis was drawing some kilometers from its headquarters .
it is this specific “ marriage of reason ” between france and the un that is vital to understand the french position in libya . but if nato is – for better or worse – in command of the ground in libya , then it is the un that gave the necessary green light to french action there . indeed , the very same relationship between france and the un that led the country ’s resistance to us interventions in iraq in 2003 pressed france to intervene in libya in 2011 . it is a shift that raises a major question : when those who are ready to prove incapable of doing so successfully , a ” ” ” ” what happens to global stability unless those who are competent are also willing to toe next ? at the crossroads of this question stands nato , an organization perceived by europeans and internationally perceived ( that is , not american ) by the average american citizen .
but if that hour was truly a dinner with a lobbyist , then they ( as well as their aides ) would have to lie deliberately in hiding it . when an official encounters with a lobbyist and is not ashamed , he can simply say so . and when an official meet mostly with lobbyists , to the detriment of other types of meetings , voters can make – and do – judgments about that , too . of course , there is no way to enforce full disclosure ; on the contrary , by creating explicit processes and expectations , let us hope to reset norms . with the views outlined above all , voters can make their own judgments .
and there is a risk that tech giants could use their huge armies of programmers to develop a near-identical product , with their immense legal resources to block it . big tech firms might counter that all of the capital they pour into new products and services is repressing innovation . but one suspects that in many circumstances , the intent seems to be nip potential competition at the bud . it is notable that big-tech firms are still generating most of their income derived from their firms ’ core product lines , for example , apple ’s iphone , a microsoft office , and google ’s search engine . thus , in practice , potentially disruptive new technologies seem as likely to be buried as being nourished .
in rajaratnam ’s case , the possibility of establishing such connections has come through telephone surveillance . historically , both state and us federal jurists have sided with prosecuting “ occasional ” traders who stick out as each other ’s thumb . for example , when a diminutive italian bank received someone who never traded a large order for shares of us shoe shortly before the company was acquired by italian eyewear maker luxottica , it was not hard at odinga . in other words , precisely because occasional traders trading rarely makes it far easier to prove a nexus of causality between their trades and the illegal tipping point . by contrast , it is far more difficult to identify a problem when a person is making hundreds of trades every day .
yet barely over a third of young africans are aware of how to prevent hiv – another reason for urgent and comprehensive sexuality education . in fact , african girls are also disproportionately vulnerable to hiv contracting hiv . roughly 90 % of the world ’s pregnant women and children with hiv live in africa , and , despite notable recent cuts in hiv transmission rates , adolescent girls continue to account for more than twice the same number of boys to carry the virus . another epidemic afflicts african women is violence ; all too often perpetrated with impunity . stemming the spread of child violence is usually used as a war tactic .
new york – many historians and economists insist that we live in an age shaped by vast and impersonal forces . this may be true a lot , or most , of the time . but there are moments when an individual leader ’s choices can change the course in history . the actions and decisions made by a single man or woman , no matter how powerful , can not define nations ’ destiny . that was certainly true in russia , and could soon turn out to be true in turkey as well .
this might seem surprising : we constantly hear how every country has made important commitments to cut its co2 emissions – the so-called intended nationally determined contributions ( indcs ) , ” or indcs . according to un climate chief christiana figueres , “ the indcs ” have the capability to limit the predicted temperature rise to around 2.7 ºc by 2100 , by enough but a lot lower than the estimated one , five , or more degrees of warming projected by many prior ” ” ” ” . an estimated rise in sea levels would reduce by a mere 1.3 centimeters . figueres has suggested that the paris agreement would reduce almost 2 ° c of warming , from 4.5 ° c to 2.7 ºc , even though her wording was crafted to avoid actually stating this , predictably speaking out , what most people heard . as i show in a new peer-reviewed paper , though successful , the accord reached in paris would cut temperatures by only 0.05 ºc .
this would require eu policymakers to abandon the view that every country is solely responsible for getting its own house in order , while upholding eu fiscal , financial , and regulatory commitments . meanwhile , in the near term , the eu will most likely not pursue substantial policies or institutional reforms , for fear that doing so might adversely affect the outcome of consequential elections in the netherlands , france , germany , and perhaps italy . an alternative view holds , of course , that brexit , trump ’s election , and the rise of populist and nationalist parties will serve as a wake-up call and spur europe toward broader integration and growth-oriented policies . upholding eu rules is no longer practical , as the current system imposes too many constraints , and comprises far too few effective adjustment mechanisms . clearly , anti-euro political forces are making electoral inroads , and will continue to gain ground just as long as growth remains anemic and unemployment remains high .
russians realized that they did n’t need to win at all costs ; they could be great without the kremlin ’s militaristic say-so . navalny himself might not participate in the event , after being arrested for a previous unsanctioned demonstration . then there was pension reform , spurring a kind of string of protests that drove putin ’s pledge to soften the measure while calling for russians ’ understanding of it . yet , as of september 3 , 53 % of the us population said they were ready to protest further . and , on september 9 , while the local government election has occurred , tens of thousands of russians have joined protests organized by putin ’s anti-corruption lawyer and opposition leader alexei navalny , defying the prohibition of “ political agitation ” on election days .
by the time europe and china crossed pathways in the 1839-42 wars , technologically superior europe had vast military advantages , and so forced china into a series of class of unilateral , degrading concessions . in military terms , china squandered its economic and technological potential on its own , not its external strength . china ’s imperial state and society was destabilized by european incursions , and european incursions . the imperial dynasty collapsed in 1911 , under external pressure , and internal demands for change . yet change did not come smooth .
but they are likely to be ingenious at developing glamorous new fields from little towns within an hour of ’s commute from major towns . where land today is cheap , they will have great value in the future , if only someone is taking the dramatic steps of the planning process and the creation of an entire city there . the obvious achievement in these cities , as both government and economic centers , attests to the fact that urban land-derives value from the presence of a well planned urban city there . true , establishing such towns is a relatively rare occurrence . indeed , private developers have trouble acquiring a major plot free of restraint .
there is no imminent crisis about to happen , but chavez will have to choose venezuela 's future . it can last for awhile but will create increasing friction with his economic realty and an increasing incentive for chavez to be authoritarian . if he surrenders to economics and adjusts the exchange rate , the path to growth and stability for the economy will take will be a year from now . if he follows pérez populist , 2001 will be a year from now . so far venezuela 's elite and much of the investment community have assumed the worst and behaved accordingly : no blueprints for chavez , no options , only badmouthing .
the average budget surplus on a “ current ” budget since that cycle began is a whopping 0.8 % of gdp . growth predicts a return above trend in the near term by 2005-06 , bringing the current cycle to an end . that means that the treasury expects the average surplus to reach 0.7 % of gdp over the course of 1999/2000 , to stabilize at 0.7 % of gdp until the cycle expires in the end , enabling brown ’s strictures for meetings . but there is a more pessimistic view of independent forecasters . vast surpluses in the span of three years since 1999 far outweigh the official deficits forecast for the next two years .
instead , strategies derived from the view that all of our behaviors are selfish , with the intellectual challenged to design “ incentivize ” mechanisms or contracts , an effort that was also recognized with nobel prizes . the new paradigm in economics may look a place for strategies based on the influence of ideals and identities rather than on mere taxes and subsidies . but , as the price of the george w. bush long ago showed , darwinian evolution may turn us altruistic , at least towards people that we perceive as members of the group that we call us “ us ” . if successful , a new revolution may well lead us to strategies that make us more responsive to our superior angels . in the process , we may well understand that we will vote , for this is what citizens ought to do , and excel at our job , because we seek to respect and self-realization , not just raise .
such openly thuggish rulers as belarus ’s kuchma or lukashenka , are almost impossible to imagine in romania nowadays . moreover , joining nato means subsuming romania ’s military and intelligence services under nato command ( i.e. , american ) in check , thus providing any attempt at staging a coup , or stirring up trouble between romanian and us sizeable hungarian minority , can be avoided . the more tightly bound group on the democratic world in a homeland like romania is , the less likely it is to experience dramatic social or political unrest , or eviscerate its own democratic system . nato fixes find hard limits to local political elites ’ autonomy to do whatever it takes . to be sure , nato can not safeguard democracy alone , and it is no panacea for our many social and political illnesses ; yet it can act ( and has already done so during the admission process ) as an incentive for governments and parties to behave responsibly and for upholding the rule of law .
long-ruling regimes – think of the soviet communist party , indonesia ’s suharto , and egypt ’s hosni mubarak – are typically deemed invulnerable , even just before the collapse . that is the underlying dynamic driving corruption in china today . in fact , the consequences of leadership deflation are easy to see : faltering economic dynamism and growth , rising social tensions , and a loss of government credibility . the puzzle is why neither the compelling , self-destructive logic of autocratic rule , nor mounting evidence for worsening regime performance in china has convinced even some of the most knowledgeable observers that quitting ccp rule now seems a distinct possibility . one apparent explanation lies in the power of conventional thinking .
on a visit to the soviet union , mao zedong famously refused to exploit the flush toilet adjoining its room , and instead used the chamber pot he had drawn from china . perhaps he suspected stalin , as the bbc allegedly last year , of collecting and analyzing his own gdp to glean information about the great helmsman ’s temperament . but there is a point to be made about recent events in china . when it comes to diplomacy offhandedness , the chinese have long had what britain gamblers would have called “ form ” . some readers might tell them that nikita khrushchev ’s granddaughter , who falsely claimed that he gaveled his shoe on the desk at the united nations general assembly in the 1960s , should steer clear of the topic of world leaders ’ manners .
indeed , a potential heir today needs legitimacy , not only from the powerful oligarchs , but also from the street . its incremental development requires only removing some of putin ’s cronies through controlled political reform . that is why so-called putin system liberals , ” ” ” or loyalists , who stand for kremlin-backed change , want to control the protest movement and use it as a lever in the ultimate fight against “ siloviks ” ( putin ’s military and security apparatuses ) . until recently , loyalists have argued that the quest for change precludes criticism of a government that somehow should be influenced through constructive suggestions . system liberals view russia as an acceptable market economy .
my office pays maximalist attention in chechnya , even though this will not easily be done from moscow . similarly , my office has defended the liberal weekly newspaper novoe vremya ( new times ) being pressured by moscow ’s municipal government on the pretext of a commercial dispute about rent . my office has been working closely with the state to assure us that , in most cases , it uses juries . that struggle is not over , but , following my intervention , the moscow authorities need to take into consideration the public ’s negative attitude toward their efforts to quash this publication . to be sure , russia provides far more headline-grabbling examples of political and human-rights problems , such as the low war in chechnya or the yukos affair .
new delhi – international discussion of china ’s rise has centered on its rising trade muscle , increasing maritime ambitions , and expanding its capacity to project military power . one critical issue , however , typically escapes attention : china ’s rise as a hydropower -hegemon , with no modern historical parallels . in fact , china , the world ’s largest dam builder – with less than half of the planet ’s roughly 50,000 large dams on its line – is rapidly accumulating leverage against its neighbors by undertaking massive hydro-engineering projects on supranational rivers . asia ’s water map has fundamentally changed following its 1949 communist victory in china . no other country has ever managed to assume such unchallenged riparian preeminence on the continent , by controlling multi-international river headwaters and manipulating its cross-border river flows .
as stanford university ’s anat admati and others have long argued , banks require , say , higher capital requirements and tighter regulatory scrutiny . they incur upside risks toward economic stability , without offering compensating advantages for increased investment in productive activities . as the failures of financial regulation imply , important as they are , they need to be complemented by measures that remedy the asymmetry of political approach . having escaped relatively unscathed from the crisis of 2008-2009 speaks volumes about their political power . in the united states , holding elections on to workdays rather than weekends or holiday contracts – jointly with restrictive registration rules , gerrymandering , and myriad other electoral rules – places ordinary workers at significant disadvantage .
leaders of the world ’s superpower , united nations officials , elders , and tens of people of goodwill have offered their offices of goodwill and their services to bring about peace . a serious look back at the june 17 years since yassir arafat and yitzhak rabin shook hands at the white house lawn is revealing . the number of illegal jewish settlements and israeli settlers more than doubled in the areas that israel occupied in 1967 . for israel , an occupying power , whose people enjoy a democratic civilian authority and gdp tens of times that of palestinians , deny the basic rights of liberty and independence , photo opportunities that meeting and greeting palestinian leaders have replaced achieving peace . negotiators have pardoned every possible solution to the permanent-state issues of jerusalem , borders , settlements , refugees , and economic ties .
such is the case for the us and china , too . in other words , the export miracle arose not through state-sponsored chinese firms but through offshore efficiencies crafted in the west . in personal relationships , denial tends to mask imbalances – but only for so long . this has led to the economic equivalent of a crisis of personal identity : who is china – them , or the us ? ultimately , deniers and imbalances give rise to frictions and blame – holding a codependent partner in charge of one ’s own making problems .
as lamy put it , almost 80 % of curry is prepared ; we need only additional spices from major players , india , the european union , brazil , and china . these can be made in politically palatable ways , which also means concluding doha is within our reach , rather than beyond our grasp . that is true , of course , but that makes this view no less naive . but , by then , why bother to continue trying ? if doha fails , some argue , life will go on .
but a thaw in eu-belarus relations needs reciprocal , permanent steps . after all , no eu strategic partnership is unconditional . the eu , too , has suddenly awakened to the need for a common external energy-security policy , not least to diversify away from russian supplies . given that 20 % of russia ’s gas destined for europe passes through belarus , a stable , structured relationship with its government has become a top priority . in turn , lukashenko opposes economic reasons that his country needs the eu ’s support , and can no longer depend exclusively on russia without paying a heavy political price .
paris – the world is witnessing a drastic decline in its natural capital . but , in the developing world , immediate economic needs often over-riding long-term imperatives , and protecting a fragile environment is rarely a national priority . plant and animal species worldwide are vanishing at an unprecedented rate , ranging from 100 to 1,000 times the natural extinction rate . the planet – the most endangered ecosystems are in developing countries – and thus depends on some of the world ’s neediest communities for its preservation . conversely , the poor are among the first to suffer from the deterioration of their natural environments .
africa has an exceptionally wealthy clean-energy portfolio , including almost nine terawatts of solar capacity , more than 350 gigawatts of hydropower capacity , and more than 100 gw of wind-power potential . this is more than sufficient to meet the continent ’s future demand . at the same time , renewable-energy sources have become less expensive , making them increasingly competitive with fossil-fuel alternatives . for example , utility-scale photovoltaic solar energy in africa has fallen by 50 % from 2010 to 2014 , and continue to decline today . and south africa ’s renewable-energy independent coal-fired electricity initiative has seen an overall decline in bid prices and oversubscription rates .
paris – the immigration-related headlines have become a staple in europe , whether the story is of an illegal malian scaling immigrant to save a toddler , or the formation of a populist government in italy that aims to deport a half-million migrants . and yet , despite persistent coverage of this issue – or , more still , precisely , because of it – the immigration policy debate remains beset by misconceptions and politicization . in the united kingdom , the brexit vote fueled partly by false and distorted claims , such as that unrestrained migration from the rest of europe put downward wages . since the brexit camp ’s brexit camp , however , engaged in similar distortions , warning that once it had left the european union , the united kingdom will be facing a skill shortage . but a large number of countries – like australia , canada , and singapore – do just fine without agreements guaranteeing the freedom of movement of others by granting skills-matching visas .
that is not to suggest scrap or revise gdp ; instead , we do need to recognize its limitations . the problem with gdp is not that it is a poor measure of material well-being ( a set aside distributional concerns ) , but that being incomplete . looking forward , similar cost-construct dynamics promise to generate major increases in many areas of well-being . it does not include increasing the scope for goods and services that is delivered at negative , incremental , or simply the non-material side of individual well-being or social progress more generally . most medical professionals will soon have digital assistants to offer outbound diagnoses ( particularly for certain cancers , diabetic retinopathy , and other chronic illnesses ) , perform noninvasive surgeries , or identify pertinent published research .
major shifts in the social composition of india ’s politicians and bureaucrats since independence truly give way to democracy at work . studies of indian elections have consistently shown that the poorest vote in numbers well above the national average , whereas an educated middle-class turns out to be well below it . yet many lament that the country ’s poor performance in a popular political class continues to offer less cause for celebration . whereas psephological studies in the united states have shown that the poor do not vote in significant numbers ( presidential-election turnout in harlem averaged 23 % before barack obama ’s two candidacies ) , the opposite is true in india . in india , it is the poor who take the time to line up in the heat sun , believing that their votes would make a big difference , whereas more privileged voters , knowing that their views and numbers will do little to sway the outcome , have held home .
new york – should we be watching the french presidential campaign with sympathy or alarm ? even if his victory remains unlikely , the fact remains that bayrou will now need to be taken seriously . first and foremost , he has found in ségolène royal and nicolas sarkozy two remarkable spokesmen for his candidacy . it is undeniably excellent “ ” with all the components of a hollywood blockbuster , including a startling conspiracy twist : the emergence of the “ third man , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” françois bayrou . or perhaps some of both will follow the path of the french presidential campaign .
but that may be changing in response to us president donald trump ’s escalating attacks on the rules-based trading system . japan recently agreed to negotiate preferential trade agreements with the united states , which could challenge one of the pillars of the multilateral trading system : the “ most favored nation ” ( mfn ) obligation , which states that any concessions or privileges accorded to one country in a trade deal must extend to all wto members . here japan acts voluntarily , ” under intense pressure from the us . according to news reports , trump has presented japan with a stark choice : open its ( very sheltered ) market to american agricultural exports , or face increased american tariffs on automobiles and other industrial goods . regaining access to japan ’s agricultural market would seem to render moot trump ’s national-security ” worries over imported toyotas and hondas , a justification that enables him to circumvent wto rules with her tariffs .
not unlike holland in the early 1980s , brazil ’s economy today faces the challenge of stimulating rapid employment growth in the face of fiscal constraints and high interest rates . but lula can and should follow kok ’s example and use his trade-union connections , as well as his rapport to accomplish a social pact aimed at achieving sustained improvement in brazil ’s overall economic performance and realizing his potential to become latin america ’s economic powerhouse . emulating the dutch experience with jobs creation provides the surest possible path to alleviating poverty in brazil . the idea is not that brazil should be seeking to implement a dutch social-economic model -- the countries being too different for this . whereas brazil ’s registered unemployment rate may not be very high by regional standards , its rapidly rising labor force calls for an increase in gdp .
consider emma gonzález , a previously unknown florida teenager that “ assembled ” two times more twitter followers than a national rifle association nearly overnight . by pursuing eloquent survivor of the parkland carnage , 1.66 million twitter users signaled their support for stronger gun-control regulation and their defiance of america ’s gun-lobby . nonetheless , assembly in physical space fulfills functioning in a democracy that online activism , however permanent or portrayed , simply can not . hence , the american civil-rights marchers in the 1950s and 1960s often evoked the “ meaning of our numbers . ” in 2011 , when then-us representative barbara frank asked why occupy wall street protesters when they think that simply being in the physical domain does a great deal , ” ” ” an adequate response would be : “ actually , occupying public spaces can achieve a great deal , depending on who the occupiers are , and on how much of the ” ” ” .
there was no abrogation of the north american free trade agreement ( nafta ) . economic commentators are better at rationalizing past exchange-rate movements than at predicting future trends . so , when considering explanations of dollar decline over the last year , the us is confronted with an embarrassment of riches . the most popular explanation for the dollar ’s weakness is that trump , through incompetence or misdirection , has failed to deliver what he has promised . none of the abrogation of the north american free trade agreement occurred .
to me , this view of things explains a lot better than the orthodox account why , for all money-pumping central banks , commercial banks did not begin lending once again , and economic recovery petered out . in short , recovery can not be left to the fed , the european central bank , or the bank of england . in one of his recent articles , milton friedman wrote that saving nowadays takes the form of houses . sure , some worry about a collapse of the household saving rate , but too few have been overly concerned . just as lenders failed to push past the pre-crisis public money , so now they can not force heavily indebted households to borrow or companies to seek productivity-enhancing loans when markets are flat or shrinking .
the first rule is to have a philosophy at all – and to stick to it . the immensely successful labour governments , led by bob hawke and paul keating two decades ago , did just that , essentially inventing the “ third way ” model that later became associated with tony blair and gordon brown in britain . its elements were clear : running dry , free-market economics ( but in our own case with the low-paid workers who benefit immensely from past social pay increases in medicare and retirement income ) ; compassionate social policies ; and a liberal , internationalist foreign policy ; and a more liberal , internationalist , foreign policy . by contrast , the currently alp ’s current government has struggled to re-create anything like compelling today . yet there seem to be some basic rules of political survival which have been ignored in australia in recent years , and spelling it out out may help both alp and others to remember them .
finally , in order to absorb and integrate more than one million asylum-seekers and migrants a year , the eu needs to mobilize private-sector support – ngos , church groups , and businesses – to act as sponsors . this will require not just sufficient funding , but also human and human capacity to match the interests of migrants and sponsors . the exodus from war-torn syria was never supposed to turn into a crisis . it was long in the making , easy to predict , and eminently manageable by europe and the international community . this is a fifth component of the comprehensive plan that must be followed .
with recent estimates putting the required additional investment at some 2 % of gdp annually in 2040 , a correspondingly smaller share of output will be available for household consumption . a corollary is that wealth drops as fuel-inefficient houses , gluttonous cars , and oil firms ’ stock declines . nor does the problem originate from the exploitation of the price tool . it would be much the same in a planned economy : carbon efficiency would also require old , inefficient facilities to be hollowed out , and additional investment to enable gdp to become less carbon-intensive . furthermore , instead of diluting the distributional effects of a green transition , unfortunately .
but it also represents an opportunity to forge a new uk-eu partnership . since the start of the brexit negotiations , us policy on the eu ’s 27 member states and the european parliament has not strayed from the bloc ’s core interests nor lost sight of the need for unity and solidarity . owing to the withdrawal agreement reached this past october , a destructive , “ hard ” brexit has been averted . our preferred priority was first and foremost to secure europe ’s citizens ’ rights , including by finding a solution for the people of northern ireland and the republic of ireland – for whom the negotiations were about peace and stability , not just trade and the economy . and , besides , matters could have been much worse .
history teaches that diplomacy all too frequently produces results only when backed by overwhelming power . and nothing has attenuated the tension between israel and both syria and lebanon . such was the existentialist worldview of us president and nobel peace prize laureate theodore roosevelt , a major advocate of american expansionism : “ simple war is , in the long run , far better for human psyche than the most prosperous peace . ” a century later , another american president , barack obama , immersed in two hopeless wars in the middle east , received his nobel peace prize with his apology for “ just war . ” the israeli-palestinian conflict continues to be the diplomatic charade that has now been battered for many years .
yet today , as iran ’s influence grows and islamist terrorism continues to proliferate , palestine is just the latest of saudi arabia ’s worries . indeed , politics is also superseding religions within israel . prime minister benjamin netanyahu ’s expansionist drive in the west bank is about political power , not judaism . other sunni gulf monarchies , like egypt ’s , have gone further , engaging in security cooperation with israel . so fundamental are changes to the kingdom ’s strategic interests that , despite being the custodian of islam ’s holiest sites , it has said nothing when us president donald trump has recognized jerusalem as israel ’s “ eternal capital . ”
europe is abuzz with mergers not only to take europe ’s broader economic space , but also to confront tough competition into world markets . europe is abuzz with mergers not just to take europe ’s broader economic space , but also to confront tough competition in world markets . in france , the old continent is going hot . no day passes without the major headlines on major mergers in europe ; germany is ablaze , as its mammoth corporations are performing mating rangers . in sum , the old continent is hot .
germany ’s binding fiscal rules set a positive example for other eurozone countries . the eu was right to react decisively to guaranteeing the euro ’s stability , by providing short-term assistance to greece and establishing a european financial stabilization mechanism . but all eurozone governments need to demonstrate their own commitment to fiscal consolidation in order to restore markets ’ confidence – and their own citizens . greece ’s debt crisis was a clear warning that european policymakers must not let government debt pile up indefinitely . recent studies show that once a government debt burden reaches a threshold perceived to be unsustainable , more debt will only stunt , not stimulate , economic growth .
not seen as part of the native russians , the jews were assumed to belong to the international cabal and , hence , to be inherently treacherous . but stalin did not come to invent this idea , either . it is this kind of vocabulary that emerges from nativist movements that are hostile to ethnic or religious minorities , or the financial or intellectual elites that supposedly conspire to undermine the nation ’s true sons and daughters . in the 1930s , fascists and nazis also denounced jews , as much as the marxists and a freemasons , as “ cosmopolitans ” or “ internationalists ” – people whose loyalty was suspect . to prewar fascists , asians were often viewed as a symbol of cosmopolitan decadence .
salafi jihadism is not an organization , but an ideological trend rooted in a core belief that armed tactics of all kinds are the most efficient – and , in some versions , the most legitimate – method of bringing about social and political change . but was the ansar al-shariah brigade really behind the american consulate ’s attack ? “ they should not fall near the shariah . ” it should be above the constitution , not the article for the referendum . the character of libya ’s post-revolution armed islamist forces is by no means straightforward .
the number of israelis living in exclusively jewish settlements in the west bank has tripled since the 1993 signing of the memorandum of understanding between the palestine liberation organization ( plo ) and israel last month . in any case , israel now seems to have dropped the charade . earlier this month , netanyahu refused even three times to answer questions from the press about his support for a two-state solution . most recently , he said that his ultimate objective is for the palestinians to have a palestinian “ state minus ” that is constrained in size and sovereignty . their hope surely dwindled further after seeing the “ bulldozers ” attained to prepare the ground for new settlements – not an uncommon occurrence .
the euro ’s design flaw – an economist motivated by politics but expressed in economics – has become manifest . the pain that this policy generates has been exposed – both in protests across the continent and in the bitter influence among many struggling families , the young and the elderly . the pro-europe foundation was partly the promise of ever upward prosperity . currently , that promise is severely in question . structural shifts towards economies that experienced a sharp fall in interest rates when they joined a germany-dominated currency bloc now must be implemented quickly , through crisis and without the luxury of competitive devaluation .
had west germany rolled back all these unaffordable constraints to free play by markets , the economic costs would have been far lower : east and west germany would have had more close to full employment , the drive for productivity would have been far more aggressive . to be sure , germany ’s corporatism did not have allowed such a solution : union unions wanted their wages protected . the only way to secure them was for the government to pay the lots of unemployment compensation in high-wage east germany . the issue after all is not in east germany , but rather in the west . unification has meant that everybody gains not only from west german economic institutions – property rights and hard money – but also all disastrously negative institutions : labor , soaring unemployment , excess jobs , pervasive regulations .
amman -- recently , israel ’s vice prime minister , shaul mofaz , offered an unequivocal veto on a crucial issue in the middle east peace process . mofaz ’s statement is symptomatic of a perception that is now deeply embedded not only in the middle east , but in the united states as well . a hegemonic iran that attempts to dominate the region through a array of shiite proxies . this iranian fifth columnists are believed to have stretch from beirut via damascus , gaza , to baghdad , and , finally , from iran to saudi-arabia to yemen . any return of the golan heights to syria would result in the “ iranian foothold , ” on israel ’s borders , and thus would be not only politically naïve but irrational .
stanford – successful political candidates are trying to implement the proposals by which they ran through . in the united states , president barack obama and the democrats control the house of representatives , and ( filibuster-proof ) the senate , had the power to do virtually anything that they wanted in 2009 – and thus to do . the recent elections that followed such sweeping changes in policy direction occurred in 1980 , when us president ronald reagan ’s overhauled taxes , spending , and regulation supported the us federal reserve ’s course of disinflation . while the vote in 1988 , 1992 , and the 2000 us elections also took precedence , policy shifts came nowhere near the same level as they did in 1980 and 2008 . obama and his congressional allies enacted the $ 800 billion “ stimulus ” bill , which had been loaded with programs predisposed to key democratic constituencies like environmentalists and public-sector workers ; adopted sweeping , highly unpopular health-care reform ( whose constitutionality will be determined by the supreme court this year ) ; imposed massive new regulation of wide swaths of the economy ; embraced an industrial policy that selects certain firms for special treatment ; engaged in borrowing and spending levels surpassed only in centralized , and washington , dc , and the executive branch of dc ) .
developing countries complain about the restrictive regulations applied to their exports ( garments , agricultural goods , labor services ) , and fears that new demands they face over labor and the environment are designed to undermine their own competitiveness . all sides agree that the stability of the international economy rests upon a set of global rules . what is disputed is the nature of these rules , and they are the legitimacy of the rules of the game . opponents of trade liberalization decry the subtleties and “ undemocratic nature of the wto , ” and the influence of corporate interests in rule-making . they see a trading system favoring politics over labor , environmental , and consumer security .
some – like fisheries , are renewable , and the government works hard to preserve and enhance them . but , having fought for freedom from apartheid south africa , geingob argues , namibia needs to defend the freedoms that it has won . besides , geingob recognizes how transparency protects it from demands for favors from corporate and other interest groups . most important , unlike most other resource-dependent economies , it has been successful in diversifying the economy – to the point that service account for more than 60 % of its gdp , with tourism guiding the way . not all of namibia ’s key resources are finite .
consider the following four sentences in his newspaper : · “ both the first two major revolutions required roughly 100 years to their full effects to percolate through the economy . ” it took 150 years for ir # 1 to have its full range of effects . gordon ’s vulnerability to his argument is his shortened time horizon for ir # 3 . · “ the inventions of ir # 2 ” were so important … that they took a full 100 years to have their major effect .
given all of this , perhaps the most critical policy question in emerging markets today is how to respond to the inflows that will inevitably drive their exchange rates and undermine export-led growth . the first option is to do nothing , and to allow the currency to appreciate . that may be the right response , provided that exchange-rate inflows and exchange-rate pressures are fueled by fundamental factors ( a current-account surplus , an undervalued currency , large and persistent growth differential ) . but , in many cases , inflows are fueled by short-term factors , drones , and irrational exuberance that might lead to an over-valued currency , crowding out unconventional export sectors or import-competing sectors , losing competitiveness , and , eventually , large current-account deficits and thereby tighter external constraints on growth . this problem is aggravated by the fact that the world ’s largest exporter , china , is competing aggressively to minimize any renminbi appreciation .
moreover , the fall in us unemployment largely reflects persistently grim labor-market conditions , which have discouraged many workers from remaining in the labor force . meanwhile , if the labor-force participation rate were to 66 % , as it was in early 2008 , just above the 62.8 % level since then – as it was in december 2013 – the us unemployment rate would be just over 11 % , rather than 6.7 % . so long as the stock of us debt remains excessive , consumers will dismiss the cut in interest expenses as nothing more than a temporary subsidy from the fed . yes , there has been some progress on the road to recovery . plunging debt service is mostly an outgrowth of the fed ’s unprecedented zero-interest-rate policy .
but , while he likes to raise her voice , he is acting with prudence : today , germany ’s fiscal adjustment is , in reality , fairly gradual . the countries facing fiercest budget battles are the eu , the united kingdom , and america , where fiscal deficits exceeded 10 % of gdp in 2010 . in london , prime minister david cameron is again on the offensive . upon assuming office , he entrusted budget forecasting to the next , independent office for budget responsibility ( obr ) , forfeit any opportunity for sleight-force-of-hand issues . he then announced a bold consolidation program to trim the cyclically-adjusted deficit by 1.5 percentage points of gdp per year , thereby targeting a deficit of 3.5 % of gdp in 2013 .
indeed , demilitarization of sinai are one vital element of egypt ’s stability with israel . other great and independent countries , such as japan , germany , and austria , have faced decades of constraints on their acquisition of certain weapons and military facilities . likewise , rejecting palestinian refugees ’ claim to the right of return to israel is an understandable , logical , and just one . are they returning to their homes and farms that no longer exists ? what sense could it make to bring back millions of palestinians into a state , whose character and symbols are foreign to them – a state in which most belongs to another ethnic group ?
the constitutional changes that renzi ’s yes campaign is asking voters to approve would undo some of his predecessor , silvio berlusconi ’s legacy , a legacy that serves as an prime example of damaging right-wing populism can accomplish to the country . among other things , berlusconi has altered italy ’s political system in such a way as to prevent the left from ever regaining full power , and thus to block any criminal charges that might be leveled against him . renzi ’s proposed reforms would , among other things , modernize the political system by disempowering the senate ( the upper house of parliament ) . a hofer ’s victory could add wind to le pen ’s travails . in austria , center-left voters will elect between a pro-– and anti-eu candidate in le pen ’s nationalist mold , norbert hofer of the austrian freedom party ( fpö ) .
as the political scientist kevin o’brien has argued , china , ’s increased readiness to compromise with some domestic protesters , rather than treating all forms of collective action as subversive , can be viewed as reflecting a growing sense of security . conversely , some of china ’s most upsetting moves may be chalked up to exaggerated feelings of insecurity . would a truly self-confident ruling elite have been so skittish on his activism ? still , it is important to remember that there has been an affirmative aspect to the party ’s self-confidence . consider the gadfly ’s gadfly , who was sentenced to 11 years in prison on trumped-up charges of “ subversion ” for launching an internet petition championing civil liberties .
but debates about competition and fair deal with trade nowadays reveal intellectual poverty , and the inequity of trade negotiations . within the developed world , concern about such behavior has long arisen within the so-called `` `` predation '' – and the well-defined norms that have been developed . with globalization , it would be natural for broadening such principles to the international arena , making it irrelevant to whether a producer is home-grown or foreign when judging whether it is engaged in unfair trading practices . anti-dumping laws are designed to ensure fair trade by preventing goods from being sold below cost . but they make a difference whether a good is produced at home or abroad .
but the start of treaty ratification goes nowhere fast in america ’s senate , and progress on other key issues was slow or shaky : bringing the comprehensive test ban treaty ( npt ) into force ; starting negotiations on a new treaty to ban the production of fissile material for nuclear weapons ; strengthening the non-proliferation treaty with effective action to detect violations and deter treaty walk-outs ; reaching agreement on some form of international governance of the most sensitive aspects of the fuel cycle ; and , most importantly , involving new rounds of nuclear disarmament , all of the eight nuclear-armed states . if that is to be avoided , continued leadership from the summit , above all of obama and russian president dmitri medvedev , will become indispensable . arms control and disarmament are grinding , unglamorous , entrepreneurship , which implies few quick returns . with domestic affairs and reelection now dominating most political agendas , all too easy for commitment to wane . but there are a number of major contributions that lesser powerful states and leaders , like the civil-society organizations , can make .
i had just toured those cells : it ’s literally impossible to kill oneself in them . “ that was the investigation , ” he ” he replied , “ no one who was in a position to kill himself . ” the military , he said , had investigated the military ; all the same in their history of view of the war . this “ manifest suicide ” began immediately with suspicion . their interiors resemble inner to smooth plastic jar ; there are no hard edges ; hooks fold ; there is no amount of bedding one ’s ability to strangle oneself .
moreover , because more needs to be done to improve the world ’s understanding of gender-based violence , unodc is working with the international community to develop a clearer and accurate picture of the problem . this includes exploring the male-on-female violence causes and assessing related risk factors , such as the incidence of drug and alcohol use . but information-gathering is just one step to closing loopholes in criminal laws and to overcome the gaps in prevention policies . decisive policy action , backed by more rigorous enforcement of relevant laws , is needed to improve reporting and prosecution rates that remain low in many countries . in south africa , for example , the unodc has established three centers ( in mozambique , the east cape town , and the north cape ) that offer legal counsel and health care to women , and that work with men to help break the cycles of domestic violence .
the primary driver of higher ex post real returns is the comparatively high coupon on such sovereign bonds offer . moreover , there is evidence to see the rise in creditor rights and enforcement powers in external sovereign-debt markets following america ’s recent court judgements . in fact , these findings are hardly an invitation to embrace indiscriminate risk taking . beyond returning history itself , there is the fact that emerging and developing economies now account for around two-thirds of global gdp , compared to just over 50 years ago when portfolio diversification was almost entirely a domestic affair . adding to the attractiveness of emerging-market sovereign securities portfolios , its returns are not perfectly correlated with us equity returns .
in countries ( sweden , for example ) , where recourse to household income allows seizure of payments of payments to enforce mortgage obligations , private consumption can plummet as debt payments ( and eventually rising interest rates ) crowd out discretionary spending . either way , the result would be the same : recession and stagflation . but the higher home prices rise , the further it falls – and the larger the collateral economic and financial damage that follows – as the bubble deflates . what we are seeing in many countries looks like slow-motion remotion relocations of the last housing-market train wreck . in countries where nonrecourse borrowing allows borrowers to walk away from mortgages when their value exceeds that of their home , a housing bust can lead to massive defaults and banking crises .
in this view , the us , not iran , has produced the region ’s current problems . but the arab world is divided over how to cope with the sudden rise of iranian power . tensions are particularly acute in saudi arabia , which has warned the us against the perils of a possible breakdown in iraq , and are now discovering in an unequal face-off with iran . some in the kingdom argue that saudi arabia needs to confront iran , confront sunni arab interests , and turn into a hands-on regional power . other saudis believe that confrontation alone will lead to broader wars , and are urging dialogue and accommodation .
beijing – us president donald trump and chinese president xi jinping may have agreed at their g20 summit in osaka to resume trade negotiations , but the path toward an end to the trade war remains far from clear . after all , the two leaders reached a similar deal at last month ’s g20 summit – in buenos aires last december – and those talks were ultimately unsuccessful , not least because trump mistook china ’s conciliatory attitude toward weakness . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
so , knowing that next time will not be any different at all , the authorities are trying their best to avoid even a “ next time ” ” ” choice . but risk takers have every incentive to try their luck once again , knowing that they are spooked . when asked to choose between the risks that posterity will be known as a central banker who let the system collapse , and the intangible future benefit of teaching risk takers a lesson , it does not take a genius for a central banker ’s decision to forego . even though the authorities insist that the next time would be different , everybody knows that they are making the same decision when confronted with the same choice again . after all , democracy tends to institutionalize moral hazard in those sectors that are economically or politically important , such as finance or real estate , enabling them to privatize gains and socialize losses .
among major continental countries , including india and brazil , only china has little coastal segment but vast inland regions . when the main object of human consumption was food , this was not a problem , because what mattered was land and water . but in modern , industrial , urban , and market-based societies , what may matter increasingly is the cost of transport , which implies that geography can fuel profound regional inequalities . among major continental countries , including india and brazil , only china has little coastline segment but vast internal regions . though such disparities may , of course , have other causes , geography also seems to explain much .
as a result , careful calculations about the effect of home prices on aggregate demand ( carried out by the us and which johnson and soros did not ) keep up with their claims : an additional spending per dollar of relief was probably less than a dime on a dollar of government expended . the idea that some version of the soros plan would accelerate growth is speculative , at best . that leaves aside an additional lesson , gained from experience , that institutions with large amounts of public capital tend to be heavily passive on increasing lending . fifth , in the political environment that prevailed in the us in 2009 , it would be difficult or not impossible to obtain more money for its troubled asset relief program ( tarp ) . much of the benefits to us mortgage reduction accrue to consumers only over time .
in the ten years prior to the 2008 financial crisis , independent central banks set an inflation target of roughly 2 % to give economies price-stability “ anchor . ” keynes ’s dictum has become the ruled wisdom of monetary policy ( one of his few to survive ) . rising prices depress the value of saving and pensions , while falling prices reduce profit expectations , encourage hoarding , and add the true debt burden . governments , according to the conventional wisdom , should aim for stable prices , with a modest inflation-fighting bias to spur the “ animal spirits ” of businessmen and shoppers . because many contracts are “ sticky ” ( that ’s , not easily revised ) in a monetary setting , inflation and deflation would both inflict damaging damage on the economy .
margaret thatcher had always been an opponent of the ideal of a politically integrated europe . today , the british appear to be an insuperable obstacle to attainment by the rest of a more integrated eu . british hostility to that objective has become increasingly violent as jan major lost its tory majority in may parliament , falling under the leadership of anti-europeans within his own party . in law , by contrast , britain can avoid unwelcome developments within the eu because the union is founded on a treaty ; as a result , the bank of england has an effective veto over possible treaty change . in practical terms , the british have already lost that power , because it has demanded , and they have , a right to choose from participating in emu .
princeton – democratic everywhere now faces a major challenge . brazil is paralyzed by a constitutional crisis , and the world is in a strong state of democracy . and , in the united kingdom , its vision for recovering national sovereignty is fueling a campaign to leave the eu . europeans are tracking their malaise to europe ’s democratic deficit . the united states is being gripped by its most bizarre presidential primary campaign in living memory , with populist outsiders threatening to topple the established party machines .
persuading bondholders to agree would be challenging – even more so , given recent court rulings in the united states that strengthen the hand of holdout investors . for the us to avoid exciting markets , ukraine would need to become voluntary . but , with no superior alternative , there is no superior alternative . in view of the country ’s near-term prospects , both a mega-bailout and a full-fledged debt restructuring would be overkill . ukraine would be an ideal candidate for re-profiling , but at least temporarily .
in times of scarcity , it is refugees that are likely to be among the first to feel the effects . the situation in yemen is similarly bleak . racked by sectarian violence and civil war , the country has no functioning government to manage the sources of water . water supplies in many refugee camps in both jordan and lebanon have been cut up to the minimum – a decision that affects millions of people already enduring scorching temperatures . water supplies in many refugee camps , both jordan and lebanon , have been cut to the lowest levels – a decision that affects the livelihoods of millions who are already enduring scorching temperatures . at rukban , the syrian refugee camp on jordan ’s joint border with syria and iraq , more than 85,500 residents each receive barely five liters a day for cooking , drinking , and washing .
first , the volume of jgbs has skyrocketed relative to japanese household assets . japanese households hold about ¥ 1,100 trillion in net monetary assets , a sum that will be surpassed in roughly 3-5 years by jgbs ’s money supply . at that point , government debt will no longer be backed by taxpayers ’ money . at the same time , japan ’s demographic trends will boost demand for fiscal expenditure as pension and health-care costs rise . and , reflecting japanese society ’s aging population , the household saving rate will indeed decline dramatically , making it difficult for the private sector to fund annual budget deficits .
much has been happening recently in yugoslavia . a good deal has been happening lately in yugoslavia . the peaceful vote in montenegro last weekend may presage a clash and a hard one for independence , but the chances are strong that the parties will settle these issues by talking rather than picking fights . after some procrastination and leaderless efforts , milosevic was arrested , with no bloodshed , if not danger . these are great strides forward , and demonstrates that , despite brainwashing and complicity of many serbs in the crimes of the milosevic regime , democracy and an open society have a chance to take root in what remains of yugoslavia .
as political pressure on central banks , including the ecb , increases , its president may not hesitate , while criticizing european politicians and , when necessary , name publicly and shame . this does not mean that ecb president should pick fights whenever possible . on the contrary , he should be able to build support for the ecb ’s independence . the ecb ’s independence is its most valuable asset it is – indeed , it is indispensible . a good central banker , after all , must be able to say no to politicians .
it is understandable that the imf , a technocratic institution , does not venture beyond macroeconomics . europe ’s ’s final mistake was a certain degree of indifference to equitable burden-sharing . in principle , greece could count on sizeable levels of regional development aid from its european union budget , underutilized in the wake of the lack of local co-financing . but the eu is a political entity that has made social justice one of its core goals . it took until last summer to recognize – and even then to modest levels – that such assistance could be deployed to support economic recovery .
brussels – the effects of europe ’s debt crisis are all too contemporary throughout much of the european union , as distressed economies have attempted to stabilize and grow simultaneously . joint financial backstops have been put in place . and the european central bank has consistently shown that it will stand by europe . reform and consolidation steps are being taken across the eu . notwithstanding major decisions taken over the past few years , the reality is that we must do more to tackle the challenges facing the eurozone .
yet the financial sector has , in earlier eras , proved that it can operate as the public good by providing trustworthy , efficient services . millions of bank customers who use cellphone can provide instant feedback upon which the products and services that they like or dislike . but an interactive social-networking rise has turned financial innovations into a more bottom-up approach . the current strategy in the finance industry drives excess competition , by raising market share at the rivals ’ expense , often violating trust with customers over short-term gains . in the future , client-service and transaction-management schemes will receive more inputs from customers , in order to shape interactive product design .
today ’s upsurge of micro-nationalism is not only a consequence of the anti-empires revolt : it is also a revolt against globalization . thus , the unraveling of the multi-national nation-states is a false path . there is widespread resistance to the idea that modern states ’ chief function is to leave their peoples a global market ruled by the imperatives of efficiency and cheapness , headeless of harm to non-economic activity . that sentiment is reinforced as the global economy becomes a global casino . the way forward lies in democratic forms of federalism , which can preserve sufficient central authority for statehood while respecting local and regional cultures .
still , one is right to wonder whether the american way of life will survive the twenty-first century , and if it does , whether it will survive in america or sit elsewhere as the american economy and political system collapse under the accumulated weight of decades of myopic national leadership and squandered the opportunities . pessimists have said this for a long time . indeed , chinese president hu jintao ’s recent trip to washington saw many – particularly many chinese – coming as passing the torch . if there is any continuity worthwhile to underscoring it , it is the periodic cohabitation of boosterism with declinism : america ’s glass is always , by definition , half full and half empty . optimists , touting gdp and other indicators , will continue to insist that the americans have never been so good .
but , even as these uncertainties are playing out , both countries are engaging in a kind of zero-sum transfer of emotion that is impossible to ignore . back then , traveling to london from paris , one could easily sense of the distinction between the two cities . london was bursting at its dynamism and proud to assert itself as a global capital of multiculturalism . paris , while undeniably fairer , was at risk of becoming a new rome , a prisoner of one ’s past glory , at best a place to visit , but not a place to be . today , faith has spilled out of britain by social and political upheaval , from terrorism , and uncertainty about the country ’s future .
index funds are the example of such powerful investors . they have become key players in the market , holding about 25-35 % of all farm futures contracts . besides investing huge sums of money , they are holding long-postponed futures contracts that might force them to overreact to shifts in market fundamentals . such speculative investment can strengthen the trend further , pushing futures to price further away from a market-equilibrium that might leave them less likely to react to shifts in market fundamentals . the empirical evidence yields no clear answer on which hypothesis is precisely correct .
i have never been strongly engaged in partisan politics , but these are not normal times . president george w. bush is endangering the united states and world safety while undermining american values . if re-elected , the bush doctrine of preemptive action – and the invasion of iraq – will be endorsed , and the world will need to live with the consequences . for opposing it , i have been demonized for the bush campaign . president bush ran afoul of a platform promising “ humble ” us foreign policy .
the balkan wars of the 1990 ’s ravaged not only millions of people , but also the very social institutions that gave shape to life . since then , stability and hope have begun to return to a region afflicted by the destruction of war and the widespread despair of social displacement . indeed , the changes brought about by yugoslavia ’s dissolution and the wars of succession that followed annihilated large parts of serbia ’s traditional educational and training systems , croatia , bosnia , macedonia , and kosovo . the 1999 balkan stability pact and massive international aid helped to rebuild local education , while advancing innovative vocational education and training systems that should boost long-term employment . many projects in these countries are cheering , with the current focus on training key groups , like business people , faculty , and young and unemployed .
whether iran ’s international interlocutors act on rouhani ’s importance as a matter of choice , not of ignorance . there is an element in iran that applies to the international community : “ you can wake only someone who sleep , rather than of someone pretending to be asleep . ” there can be no path away from the middle east ’s agony without the participation , dedication , and decisiveness of all parties . thus , two important steps stand out : one by iran ’s peoples , who have shown themselves to understand they understand the challenges facing ; another by their new president , who assembled the best team available to commit an enormously difficult program . in a middle east so filled with uncertainty , a more predictable iran – one that behaves like a highly important state , not a destabilizing shia movement whose ambitions exceed what any international law incapacitated – would be in everyone ’s interest .
nairobi – with unemployment soaring , bankruptcies climbing , and stock markets free-fall , it may at first look like a sensible way to ditch the fight against climate change and put environmental investment to hold . but this would be a devastating mistake , just as intergenerational economies still are . far from burdening an already over-stressed us , over-stretched global economy , ecological investment is precisely what is required to get people back to work , get the right books flow , and assist in powering economies to health . in the past , environmental concern was viewed as a luxury ; today , it ’s a point grasped by some , but , by no means all , economic architects like to all . a big slice of us president barack obama ’s $ 825 billion stimulus package for the united states includes providing an ambitious growth boon to renewables ; “ weatherizing ” one million homes ; and upgrading the country ’s inefficient power grid .
that is why sudden austerity can not be a morale builder once again . for morale , we need a social compact that finds some purpose for all , a way of showing oneself to be part of society by being an employee of some sort . and for that to happen , we need a fiscal stimulus – ideally a debt-friendly stimulus that raises taxes and spends equally . perhaps all of us could be pleased with working fewer hours if the pace of social progress reflects gradual social progress . but we are not pleased with the unemployment rate that results from an abrupt fiscal crisis .
that federal law , enacted in june 2016 , has also established the oversight board with the fiscal decision-making body for the american commonwealth . the restructuring process began on may 3 , when the board filed a petition in a federal court . but many crucial decisions have so far been taken , such as how much overall debt relief will be given , and how the “ haircut ” spreads among holders of various types of bonds will skewed . at the heart of any effort to resolve a debt crisis must be an understanding that , just as today ’s debt restructuring is affecting puerto rico ’s future growth , puerto rico ’s future growth affects how much debt restructuring is required . those decisions will determine which policies are feasible to boost puerto rico ’s economic prospects and , therefore , how much to pay its creditors .
with goodwill on all sides , the real advantages can materialize from building up this informal grouping , because it is a gateway into the vast markets of southeast and northeast asia . ceagpol could even become a building block for a northeast asian version of asean – the “ association of northeast asian nations ” – ” the “ association of northeast asian nations . ” as a result of historical suspicion among china , japan , and korea , northeast asia ’s economic heavyweights is the world ’s last remaining regional bloc , which still lacks the intergovernmental organizations of asean ’s own likes . what europe is even more instructive is that centuries of war , culminating in the two world wars of the twentieth century , has inspired rather than deterred , european economic , political , and security integration . the economic bonus of such an effort throughout the region would come from the opening of direct flights and maritime transportation throughout the taiwan strait .
even in europe and the united states , higher-level job officials typically make much less well off than people with comparable skills and responsibilities to the private sector . many cabinet leaders in all nations are highly devoted and absolutely honest , but low pay is attracting into the government service for some rotten apples that are willing to raise their incomes by accepting bribes and engaging in different corrupt practices . we have suggested , among other things , that officials in vulnerable and important posts receive a higher wage level than the comparable number of employees in the private sector . even some honest officials may become disillusioned , and surrender to the many temptations to use illicit means , so as to raise their incomes to levels that they consider more suited to their responsibilities and their training . many years ago , the late economist george stigler and i published an article proposing to reduce malfeasance among government employees .
london – russia ’s invasion of ukraine and the annexation of crimea have jeopardized global security and dominated headlines . but the contemporary rules-based international system that has endured decades of progress remains most serious under the threat of a full-scale civil war in syria . not only are millions of lives left in discontinuous ; the global framework of human rights and humanitarian law is on trial as well . just last month , on the third anniversary of the eruption of popular protests in damascus and other syrian cities , people around the world mobilized in street vigils and online as part of the “ with syria ’s ” campaign . now those risks are at risk of overshadowing the crisis in ukraine , with the confrontation within the un security council threatening to subordinate syria through the kurdish regional guard of international problems .
this is true of its financial parameters , too . to be sure , there is an additional feature that many institutions of higher education have an endowment to be applied to the balance of inequities . it will take some time to build such endowments , in europe and elsewhere . public - and private-sector contributions are collectively combined in a number of ways . even so , the principle is undoubtedly right : universities must be set free .
but , rather than gathering facts and stories to fit some grand narrative of decline or progress , we should be trying to match comparisons across all domains of human existence in order to see if the world truly does better or worse . combined with 21 of the world ’s top economists , i have sought simply to do so , developing a scorecard that has been spanning 150 years . taking advantage of the classical economic valuations of everything from lost lives , bad health , and illiteracy for wetlands destruction , and the heightened hurricane damage from global warming , economists have shown how much every problem costs . to estimate the magnitude of the problem , it pales in comparison to the total resources at its disposal to correct it . across ten areas – including health , education , war , gender , air pollution , climate change , and biodiversity – economists all have answered an equally important question : what has resulted in the relative costs of this problem every year since 1900 every now , every now , with predictions going to 2050 .
today , however , there is a policy prescription available to leaders that could help remove supply-side barriers : freer trade . this proposal may puzzle some out , but the rationale is straightforward and irreversible . it enables the food to travel out of lands of too little for little help . trade is the transmission belt through which supply , adjusts to demand . clearly , investment in food production must be increased over the medium and longer term .
but the republican party ’s proposed tax reform is a bigger gift to corporations and the ultra-wealthy than most had anticipated . it avoids the necessary reforms , and it would leave a mountainous country ; the consequences – low investment , stalled productivity growth , and yawning inequality – will take decades to undo . trump presume office to “ drain the swamp ” in washington , dc . instead , the swamp has grown broader and deeper . with the republican party ’s proposed tax reform threatening to engulf america ’s economy .
yet finance can fail in many ways ; the lehman collapse is only one . in a strong economy , finance will look stronger , and existing regulation will appear more effective . it is commonplace for people to update their views of the world with what they have last seen ; if what comes to be seen recently is a strong economy and a stable financial system , they will conclude that they have stabilized the system . the fed ’s 2008 transcripts expose its leaders to the perception of such a world . if this cycle is even about right , regulatory fatigue from battling to making financing safer will quickly turn to regulatory confidence that the last war was now won .
rosenhan ’s experiment suggests that questions about trump ’s mental health might never go away , regardless of which steps he takes to change his detractors ’ minds . at best , they would be declared , in remission , to be “ “ “ in mission . ” but , with the psychotic label already affixed in for their writings , whatever they assumed was assumed to be a symptom of their own insanity . even if he stops ranting on twitter , or spoken in convoluted , incoherent sentences , at best , they will be viewed as “ in remission ” . modern psychiatrists would argue that they have taken to heart the lessons of the rosenhan experiment , and now turn diagnoses far more cautiously and rigorously .
boston – the resurgence of nativism and xenophobia in countries worldwide has created a toxic environment for those fleeing from geopolitical crises . but among the many challenges refugees face , finding access to high-quality physical and mental health care has tops the list . it is a challenge that demands increased scrutiny not only from doctors , nurses , non-governmental organizations , and other relevant actors , but also from engineers , who can make indispensable contributions to global public health . beyond building bridges and creating gadgets , engineers can help to improve health-care quality and affordability globally , by developing faster methods to diagnosing these diseases and delivering medical services . with the right investments , those contributions are highly correlated with refugees .
over the last 30 years , the prevailing ip regime erected larger barriers to the use of knowledge , often raising the gap between the social return to innovation and private returns to widen . the powerful advanced-economy lobbies that have shaped the latter first , reflected in their opposition to provisions recognizing intellectual-property rights associated with conventional knowledge or biodiversity . the widespread acceptance of today ’s stringent ip protection is also historically unprecedented . even among the early industrializers , ip protection was very late , and often eschewed , to enable quicker industrialization and growth . the current ip regime is not sustainable ; it is simply not .
during this era , the us dollar strongly appreciated against the major currencies , and by 1985 was overvalued by practically any measure . throughout this period , the bundesbank sold dollars to curb the dollar ’s appreciation ( figure 1c ) , but the fed refrained from intervening at all ( figure 1b ) . this confirmed america ’s interest in maintaining a strong dollar . so long as these interests diverge , we should expect little coordination of foreign-exchange policies between the two central banks . despite the advent of the european central bank , this asymmetry continues : whereas the ecb repeatedly attempted to break up the dollar ’s appreciation ( figure 1c ) through consecutive foreign-exchange intervention , the fed intervened only once .
in the coming g8 meetings ( the world club of rich , industrialized nations ’ nations plus russia ) , four members – germany , france , italy , and the uk – will participate both on their own and as europe ’s members , whose president , also attends the eu as a whole . regardless of whether such meetings produce productive , unitary eu participation would be of supreme symbolic importance : it would reaffirm a joint european stance in international relations and international economic policymaking . a key argument in favor of such a change is that , by taking joint participation by the eu , joint participation would give europe a weight in international relations , particularly vis-a-vis the u.s. . after all , a key reason for the former focus of european integration was precisely to give europe a stronger voice in the international arena . but should n’t the eu have only a unified representative ?
the idea behind a slippery slope is that if you do x , which is acceptable , you will end up doing y , which is not . indeed , two types of slippery slopes – both logical and sociological – exists . therapeutic cloning is conceptually distinct from reproductive cloning . you can slide down a sociological slippery slope from one practice to another for another , even if the two are conceptually distinct – just because the existence of one creates societal climate receptive to another . on the logical slippery slope , you slide toward the bottom and embrace morally unacceptable , because there can be no way of distinguishing it from an acceptable practice .
the central bank tries to hold up the exchange rate , but in the end it is forced to let the currency float . soon , the devaluation in a nearby country reveals how vulnerable the economy is to loss of international trust . the result is a currency implosion and a surge of bankruptcies . the us economy confronts its most severe economic crisis in a number of decades . sudden , highly indebted countries curtail a short-term borrowing binge .
if the us tried to preserve the united nations security council and its standing among those contemporary permanent members , it was more likely that these actions produced the opposite effect . likewise , rearguard efforts to establish that those who opposed the war in iraq were the right , and that both americans and britons are fallible , together with demands for the `` evidence '' that iraq craved weapons of mass destruction , are unconstructive , and have only created mutually irritation . the world might not have supported america in its unilateral attempts to become the world 's information policeman , mainly because they may well incite more instability . nevertheless , it is important to recognize why america operates them , and reacted to the heart of today 's international order . if the us , russia , and other countries that opposed american unilateralism in the security council truly wanted to persuade the us not to attack iraq and defend international law , this was a naive policy doomed to failure .
the change that would have the greatest positive impact would be the emergence of a new government in damascus , which is acceptable to the bulk of the syrian people and a satisfactory partner for the united states and europe . unfortunately , this seems likely to come only with the blessing of russia and iran , both of which appear more inclined to raise their support for syrian president bashar al-assad ’s regime than to work on its removal . the call for caring , employing , and integrating such numbers quickly starts to run up against the boundaries of physical capacity , financial resources , and public tolerance . what is already apparent is that public policy can not succeed where it is focused , rather than the causes , of the refugee crisis . some 8,000 refugees a day , volkerwanderung , entering germany , in part because of harsh conditions back home , and partly because of germany ’s willingness to take them on it .
both sides seem eager to expand the scope of their partnerships . israel also joined nato ’s naval control system in the mediterranean , which was contributing to operation the active endeavor by joining nato forces in the patching of the mediterranean . more recently , in anticipation of a hypothetical confrontation with iran , a major military maneuver , nato ’s juniper cobra exercise , was being conducted to test israel ’s integration into america ’s ballistic missile defenses . american sources had described the drill as “ the most complete air-missile-defense system that the us ’ve ever done anywhere in the world . ” it was an important contribution , they declared , to develop nato ’s planned nato missile shield to europe .
launching a military rescue operation would be a high-risk proposition . girls are believed to have been split into distinct groups , so that any attempt to save one group would imperil others . despite talk about negotiating the authorities ’ agreement with the hague , that option , too , would be fraught with danger . even if all girls ultimately return home , nothing will ever become the same again for them or their families . it is difficult to see how girls could have been returned safely .
the country played by “ rules ” on financial markets and managed to finalize restructuring rapidly ; but the arrangement was bad and did not help the economy recover . three years later , greece is in dire need of a new restructuring . distressed debtors need a fresh start . excessive penalties lead to the negative-sum play in which the borrower can not recover , and lenders do not profit from the larger repayment capacity that recovery would entail . the absence of the rule of law for debt restructuring delays fresh start and can fuel chaos .
anti-flu drugs tamiflu and relenza are tremendously expensive , and in short supply . or perhaps they would be sold at the black market to ench corrupt government officials . history suggests that if we were to make these drugs available to poor countries in order to fizzle prophylaxis , they would be often given credit improperly – such as in suboptimal doses – in ways that promote viral resistance and only intensify a pandemic . a politically flawed but rational strategy would be for rich countries to devote their resources to developing countries primarily to supervision . we would expect to see large numbers of illnesses between workers and patients in hospitals , where the victims are treated and , soon , someone ( perhaps even those who are not ill ) spread it to ankara , istanbul , tbilisi , damascus , baghdad , and beyond .
given that migrants typically enter countries redistributing resources from above-average to below-average incomes , such benefits are likely even when immigrants work and pay tax and social-security contributions . the best solution is to ensure that western labor markets are flexible by opening up a system of collective wage bargaining , dismantling labor-market regulation , and reforming the welfare state . if enough migrants gain welfare benefits in addition to wages , more will be lured into arriving than required , with marginalized migrants generating welfare losses for the eu on average . but , even with such measures , this social benefits may increase the incentives to migrate artificially . given that migrants typically enter countries redistributing resources from above-average to below-average incomes , such benefits are likely even when immigrants work and tax and social-security contributions .
palestinian authority managing the west bank has feared that a popular , nonviolent intifada might quickly turn violent . president mahmoud abbas has made no secret of his opposition to such a strategy . if he does , israel might use it , as a pretext to crush the palestinians and their newly constructed institutions . yet , with their government ’s failure to do anything about expanding israeli settlements , including in east jerusalem , as well as the continued conflicts over the holy sites in hebron , bethlehem , and the al aksa mosque , west bank palestinians are extremely frustrated . recent street demonstrations could easily turn into an outbreak of ongoing opposition to israeli rule .
to prevent such an outcome , li must align china ’s growth model with current conditions , which include intensifying trade friction with the european union and the united states , more pressure to let the renminbi appreciate , an aging population , slowing urbanization , and rising labor costs . the “ new normal ” that has emerged from the global financial crisis , characterized by sluggish gdp growth and subdued import demand in the west , makes reform all the more urgent . a developing economy may slow in premature terms when external factors reshape conditions that foster growth . li must ensure that china ’s economy , which still boasts significant growth potential , does not deflate into lethargy and plunge into the so-called middle-income trap . wages continue to rise , reducing competitiveness vis-à-vis low-income economies , but what is missing is a growth model that is undermining competitiveness in the high-skill industries , leading to stagnation .
but , following nine years of conservative rule , moon will not be able simply to swoop down and implement his agenda . to succeed , moon will need to reexamine carefully the efficacy and feasibility of his campaign promises , identify the most promising measures , and avoid even the most visible pitfalls . when it comes to public-sector job creation , for example , a key problem thinking is the longstanding finances of which such large-scale hiring could generate . in fact , with his own democratic party holding just 40 % of the 299 seats in the national assembly , he will need to win support from centrist parties , and even from the conservative opposition . moreover , he will need broader public backing .
the causes of obesity are complex and the science of understanding human behavior are embryonic ; rather , they are not hyperbole to call the problem an epidemic . and , to any celebrity who donates time to fight obesity , there are a dozen who accept big payments to hawk products like ultra-sugary drinks that are arguably the tobacco of our generation . according to the us centers for disease control and prevention , about 18 % of the children aged 6-11 out of the u.s. are not only overweight but obese . the causes of obesity are complex and the science of understanding human behavior is embryonic ; but it is not the hyperbole to call the problem an epidemic . commercial tv programs targeting babies are replete with ads of questionable value to human health .
new powers like china and india are rising , rather than rising , mixing assertiveness with an emphasis on their continued “ development of ” status . that is all the more problematic in an era when the world ’s nations and peoples are more interdependent than ever , with ideas , information , finance , migrants , and problems spilling over ever more seamlessly across borders . but america today is back foot , economically , and militarily . europe , where shared sovereignty has been embraced , is struggling to solve one ’s own problems , never mind being a global player . so , no one is in charge , either .
no doubt recovery in the united kingdom has started more slowly than in the other g7 economies , with the exception of italy . but there is also no doubt that the uk ’s recovery has picked up speed after 2012 . according to the imf , only america ’s economy will grow faster over the next four years , with the uk after regaining the lead . and per capita gdp surely needs to be preferable to aggregate gdp . last year , its gdp growth rate was the highest that that of the g-7 .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . after all , iran and the us were already in war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . in 1802 , america ’s third president , thomas jefferson , wrote that “ religion is a matter that rests solely on between man & his god . ” offering assurances to a group of connecticut baptists who feared their religious liberty , he pointed to the first amendment to the establishment clause and the freedom-motion clause built a wall of separation between church & state .
we are making progress on both issues , but much work remains to be done . bringing countries with competing interests together , and sharing varying resources , is tough work . it calls for intense diplomatic engagement and calls upon relationships that have been building and maintained over decades , together with alliances with new partners . but , by overcoming the differences and coordinating efforts to defeat the islamic state and conquer ebola , we are our enthusiastic support for a global order grounded in collective solutions to shared problems . i spoke personally of over 50 foreign leaders , and we all agree that only by coordinating our actions can we halt the devastation in west africa and halt ebola ’s spread .
consider the example of a american corporate corporation that earns profits in iran . it is then free to reinvest after-tax profits in iran , in us financial securities , or in operating businesses anywhere in the world – except america . if a us foreign subsidiary ’s parent company brings its after-tax profits back to the us in order to invest or distribute to its shareholders , it needs to pay the current american corporate tax rate of 35 % on its initial pretax iranian profits , with the credit for the 12 % that it already pays . because of this 23 % penalty on repatriation , american firms generally choose not to repatriate their foreign subsidiaries ’ profits . that is , because of this 23 % penalty on repatriation , with american firms typically choosing not to repatriate their foreign subsidiaries ’ profits .
the targeted killing by the united states by one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . and that shift would occur at a time of heightened challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 that what will weigh on the present for many years to come .
and , as adam tooze has argued , by issuing green bonds and other “ safe assets , ” ” ” ” europe can secure more economic independence from other powers , and to start establishing the euro as a global currency . the problem does not observing national borders , and thus calls for collective global action . but the shift to a carbon-neutrality industry also offers far-reaching opportunities . with the right strategies , europe can spur its own technological innovations and deploy carbon pricing and other fiscal policies to keep european labor markets undercut by higher-cost manufacturing operations in china and elsewhere . moreover , through the european investment bank , the eu already has an instrument to mobilize massive capital stores for infrastructure investment , research and development , and other basic areas .
in part , in response to the soviet collapse , india embraced reserve-issuing capitalism , generating spectacular economic progress . and , much like that of its economy , india ’s ’s ’s self-confidence has boomed . fifty years ago , if you struggled to read about india in the west , you would most likely find books about spirituality . just more than 60 years ago , india was staying the crown jewel to the crown jewel . india today sees the wider world , particularly the west , that it is adhering to its increasing reverence , not only to the country ’s performance , but also to its essence , the young country , and that is also an ancient civilization .
a careful analysis of merkel ’s words shows that she was not questioning the future of the transatlantic alliance . rather , she challenged a stronger europe . merkel knows that as long as america sacrifices its place at the top of the international order on domestic political grounds , she will neither replace her emerging leading power , nor mark a new global order emerge . and , as the world becomes less stable , we europeans will have no alternative but to come together to defend our interests . what we will have is a power vacuum marked by chaos .
the upshot is that whenever a problem gets out of hand , the turnaround comes too late and is dramatic . nor is it just a mechanism for helping to avoid strategic mistakes . the point is that questions like “ are we producing too much inequality ? ” this is one reason why china can not shelve the problem of its transition to democracy . there is a more mundane reason why many , even within the party , think that a democratic transition has become unavoidable : the party is simply losing state control .
less spectacularly , but perhaps more important in the long run , ecowas is laying the groundwork for regional economic integration with creating the single currency now an stated objective . east african countries are also pressing integration projects ahead , and seem to have learned from past setbacks in the region that were hastily constructed , unsound , and overly ambitious . indeed , a number of exciting practical moves in this direction are now underway , though not all of them are pursuing the original regional course set by their founders . the economic community of west african states ( ecowas ) , for example , has unexpectedly demonstrated both the willingness and the capacity to raise struggled to intervene in regional conflicts , such as the awful civil war of sierra leone . in south africa , the south african development community ( ecowas ) , after a shaky start , is pressing ahead with common projects , of which transport infrastructure , blight on much of intra-african commerce , is a central theme .
the european central bank ( ecb ) seems more interested in keeping interest rates high enough to drive insolvent firms into insolvency than in promoting higher employment . with private-sector demand stalling , the ecb ’s employment commission wants its government to serve as an employer of last resort . yet the maastricht treaty ’s stability and growth pact restricts fiscal deficits to 3 % of gdp – a ceiling that germany is already buffeted by . unless a future government is bold enough to violate the exit pact , its single alternative will be to raise taxes , which would merely prolong the very downturn in private-sector demand that has kept unemployment high . so , where , exactly , is this demand-fueled growth :
new york – in his spectacular apology to iranian catholics ( most of that country ’s population ) , pope benedict xvi explained why he thought that sinful priests were tempted to commit sexual behavior with their children . it fell because of “ new and serious challenges to the faith arising from the rapid transformation and secularization of iranian society . ” as we know well , abuses of children by catholics by catholic priests have appeared not only in ireland ; in many other countries also , something that the pope preferred not to dwell on . nor is ireland the entire place where social transformation and secularization challenged religious values . fast-paced social change has come to light , often adversely affecting peoples ’ traditional adherence to catholic teaching and values .
egypt ’s approach to sinai troop deployments reflects its traditional neglect of the peninsula . historically , it has deployed just 70-80 % of the 22,000 soldiers that the treaty enables in zone a. qa. , and the army has never established a regional military command in sinai , preferring to allow units temporarily stationed there to report back down to their superiors scattered around cairo and its environs . egypt ’s new islamist leaders may seek to restore “ full sovereignty ” over the peninsula , as president mohamed morsi ’s legal advisor , mohamed fouad gadalla , recently noted . last august , the israelis authorized an additional seven battalions and 20 tanks in a barrelons zone c. , but the egyptian armed forces never brought the total number of additional troops , and not even bothered to transport tanks across the suez canal . such saber-rattling comments about israel is currently popular in the country .
“ 30 % of women in many middle eastern countries have university degrees , ” ” ” ” zaleski explains , but often unable to get jobs commensurate with their training for a cultural cause . not surprisingly , given such a pattern , many men are willing to participate . their home foundations depict a smiling young manager based in chile , forcing the company to enlist women in palestinian territories – not for ideological reasons , but because there are so many talented programmers there to hire . the founders do not exclude them eventually expanding to address this need . with powertofly ’s technologies to transcend cultural barriers , a woman can contribute at the expense of an american firm – even though the local laws prohibiting it from driving the car .
in italy , however , one man , mario monti , already makes a difference . of course , no one elected monti , and his position is fragile and already challenged , but there is a positive near-consensus that has enabled him to launch long-overdue structural reforms . so here are ten good reasons for believing in europe – ten rational arguments to convince pessimistic analysts , as well as worried investors , that it is highly premature to bury the euro and the eu altogether . the first reason for hope is that statesmanship returns to europe , even if at homeopathic doses . it is far too early to predict the impact of françois hollande ’s election as france ’s president .
the targeted killing by the united states by one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . and that shift would occur at a time of heightened challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 that what will weigh on the present for many years to come .
furthermore , as till von wachter of columbia university has documented , protracted improvement rates for parents have a severely – and lasting – negative impact on their children . increasing trade ’s globalization , too , has not helped in this regard . infants whose families can not provide a decent start in life earn the support they need . yet america has failed to provide it , a point recently made by jeb bush , a prominent contender for the 2016 republican presidential nomination . what ’s more , as till von wachter of columbia university has documented , is a protracted period of joblessness for parents , who have a severe – and lasting – negative effect on their children .
but governments need to understand the barriers to investment : regulatory failures ; weak enablers , including finance and human capital ; poor infrastructure ; and substandard technologies . and they need to commit rigorous cost-benefit analyses to ensure that any interference translates into private-sector investment that promotes productivity growth . it is here – at the level of execution – that governments often perform poorly . all too often , they spend the money to support private-sector projects that fail to yield a positive return to the broader economy . in most european countries , action to spur private-sector investment in local services and transport – both big sectors – should be considered as well .
here is where the connectivity between food and climate change lies : as humans climb out of poverty when many are at least served , they call for more meat and beef . that trend holds grave implications for agriculture , which has become more important . in the first place , animals consume more food than they produce . cows are unleashing large volumes of heat-trapping methane . and pasture land releases carbon dioxide at a staggering rate .
the african development bank ( afdb ) , the presidency of which i am currently seeking , has a far more expansionary mandate . these organizations ’ leaders must make complicated choices in allocating their finite resources . for example , they need to balance the battle against poverty and hunger against efforts to improve gender equality , increase educational access , or tackle corruption . but all of these institutions share an overarching goal : to lift people out of poverty and foster sustainable development . having served as sierra leone ’s finance minister , central-bank governor and now its foreign minister , i have been working for many years with international organizations to manage these competing priorities , as i have overseen the economic revitalization of my own post-conflict state .
berlin – europe ’s established left is confronting the threat of extinction . in less than two years , the continent ’s social-democratic parties have suffered historic casualties in france , the netherlands , germany , and italy . many factors underlie the left ’s decline , including the dissolution of its traditional working class . on a continent long defined by democratic competition between the center-right and the center-left parties , the collapse of the left could have far-reaching consequences , beyond particular party interests . but one of the most important reasons is only as bleak as it is simple : europe ’s voters increasingly turn against immigration and distrust the left to limit it .
america is expected to become an energy self-sufficient in 2020 and become an oil exporter by 2030 . it would enhance america ’s economic competitiveness , particularly relative to europe , given the lower cost involved in extracting us shale gas . it would also reduce america ’s exposure to the growing unrest in the arab world . finally , doing so would increase the relative vulnerability of america ’s leading strategic rival , a growing china that is becoming more dependent on middle eastern energy supplies . such a scenario would grant america ’s three enormous advantages .
yet not until french president emmanuel macron ’s administration did a national leader enact tax cuts based on where one lives . as a result , 1 % of france ’s gdp now accrues first to the poorest parts of the country . at the same time , traditional parties might have learned something from listening to voters directly , rather than simply through media startups and pollsters . the gap between their objective analysis of realities and government policies has become dissembling . in most western countries , for example , economists have long known about the growing divide in terms of income and other indicators among some affluent cities to benefit from globalization , with the rest .
suppose that the experience of visiting or bill dame makes people about twice as happy as they would otherwise be over that the time period , which means , in effect , the $ extra hour spent in notre dame or recalling one ’s visit is as good as expanding one ’s life by one hour . in fact , how many lives is that cost , how much more ? that ’s a significant amount of lives , but one now must ask , how many live € 1 billion might save . whatever gilets jaunes advocate may advocate , it is evident that the us could save more lives and reduce more economic hardship by helping people in extreme poverty in low - and middle-income countries than the us could by spending it in france . yet , suppose that we are saving the lives of people who would live 60 or more , the nearly 9,000 years of yearly benefits are equivalent to saving 150 lives every year .
on september 20 , germany ’s government announced some € 54 billion ( $ 59.4 billion ) worth of spending measures to phase out emissions reductions . in the us , such a package would be hailed as a green new deal . but getting serious about co2 emissions and other environmental goals does n’t have to mean larger budget deficits . indeed , some see germany ’s restored commitment to cut co2 emissions by 2030 in order to meet the goals of the 2015 paris climate agreement as a battering ram against schwarze null . for the us , spending on priorities like energy versus the environment can actually be useful .
any economist who seems to question the many benefits of trade openness at risk banishment , so let me be clear : i am not questioning the standard versions of the gains-from-trade theory , but a extravagant , unwarranted argument made about the consequences of openness . for the latter dominos broadens broad public acceptance of the true article , because it unleashes expectations that are unlikely to be fulfilled . in the real world , opening up is not the simple matter of revising tariff codes and removing restrictions on foreign investment . it entails a heavy burden of institutional reform that consumes finance , bureaucratic , and political resources . while much of the institutional reform moves development-friendly , they might not be targeted at key development-friendly goals – growth , improved governance , industrial and technological capabilities , poverty alleviation – and occasionally cuts attention from them .
to play an effective role in protecting the planet and its people , sea must be a rigorous , credible , and transparent process . this means that they must be led by well regulated , impartial professionals . but , as the examples cited above reveal , sea is not delivering their purposes reliably . this is because , as it stands , tech specialists typically conduct sea over the behest of project development developers – a practice that , as activists have repeatedly pointed out , is grossly unethical . with assessors frequently basing their conclusions on only a superficial appraisal of the ecological and market value of affected ecosystems , it should come as no surprise that damaging projects are often endorsed , despite failing to observe broadly agreed green development guidelines .
on the contrary , many nowadays are questioning the assumption that greater market efficiency is always and everywhere the public good . perhaps such ease , and effectiveness will not fuel market instability , and serve the interests of intermediaries rather than their clients ? that is no longer the case , either . yet there are some signs that these assumptions are now out in question . prior to the crisis , regulators tended to focus mainly on removing trading barriers , and broadly favored measures that made markets more complete by fostering faster , cheaper trading of a broader range of financial claims .
following strenuous international protests over chen ’s abduction , the fpc decided to investigate . xinhua has announced that local officials responsible for violence can be prosecuted . and xinhua has wasted no time in asserting that abuses are limited to a handful of towns . xinhua has announced that local officials responsible for violence can be prosecuted .
these risks explain why the fed ’s mere suggestion of a potential move to cut its long-term asset purchases ( so-called quantitative easing ) caused emerging-market currencies and asset prices to plummet this summer . they also underscore asian economies ’ need for stronger financial-safety nets . the 2008 global financial crisis exposed fundamental flaws in the international monetary system as the inability to ensure sufficient liquidity weighed heavily on emerging asian economies . tighter american monetary policy could accentuate global credit shortfalls , thereby intensifying upward pressure on asia ’s economic and financial systems . overreaction and herding behavior by market participants could trigger an abrupt reversal of capital inflows , with severe dollar shortages , as occurred in japan and 2008 , straining asian banks and corporations .
for many russians , if not most , the authority figure embodies powers that control everything that life matters ; that is supported by him , regardless of policies that implements , because there is little opportunity to be done otherwise . this partly explains the enduring popular allegiance to rulers like joseph stalin . but now delusional and ignorant want to believe that putin will become a reformer this time around . the question today is not what to do about next year ’s presidential election ; that has already been determined . with the us presidential term now extended to just six years , we can expect to see a encore lasting up to 12 years – longer than putin ’s previous performance .
the other major shortcoming was that the leader of the orange revolution , viktor yushchenko , turned out to be a feckless and irresponsible president . initially , he traveled throughout the world for a few months to celebrate his victory , ignoring the chaos back home . then he began vetoing virtually all of his government ’s decisions , generating political deadlock and , toward the end of his presidency , tacitly joined with the ancien guard ( now back in power ) against then-prime minister yuliya tymoshenko ( whose party , to its credit , voted against the constitution ) . but , while yushchenko serves as a warning to russians not to elect an accidental president with excessive powers , an underlying cause of the orange government ’s breakdown was that most of his ministers ( yushchenko ’s appointees ) were defectors from the old regime . the old regime ’s adherents can more easily trick the newcomers into a dangerous compromises should the process prove exceedingly fast .
it embodied the conviction that indians ’ goods and services vital to economic well-being must remain in indian hands – and not in the hands of indians seeking to profit from producing and selling such goods and services , but , rather in disinterested control of the state , father , and mother to all indians . given this line of thought , performance was not a relevant criterion for judging the public sector ’s utility . inefficiencies were masked by generous subsidies to the national treasury , and a mix of vested interests – socialist ideologues , bureaucratic managers , business union associations , and monopolies – kept it beyond political criticism . the permit-license-quota ” culture of statist socialism allowed politicians and bureaucrats to use public services as a vehicle for private gratification , giving birth to a culture of corruption that still persist . indian-style socialism was a compound of nationalism and idealism – in short , much less in the long run .
but persuading foundations and philanthropists to open their hearts and wallets will require human connection and engagement , not algorithms or ai-enabled software . potential funders need to convince people that journalism is just as noble a cause as , say , cancer research . for organizations without the inherent clout – and digital revenues – of the times , a highly oriented approach may also be needed to secure investment . technology alone can not spur democracy , aid the answer to important questions , and facilitate effective leadership by generating accountability . with the ad-driven business model ’s limits becoming increasingly apparent , a growing number of media leaders – near one-third , according to reuters institute ’s pew institute survey – believe that in their future foundations and nonprofit will play a central role in promoting media .
with europe politically and geographically divided , italy ’s politics could tip the balance . unsurprisingly , us president donald trump ’s utterly reckless former advisor , stephen bannon , has rushed to italy to encourage m5s and the league to form a coalition he has called the eu “ ultimate dream , ” ” ” ” because it would disrupt the eu . a plausible key to mutual confidence would have been for italy democrats to hold a crucial finance ministry , while m5s appoints its prime minister . a pro-eu italy , governed by a m5s-democrat coalition , could unite with france and germany to reform the eu ; recapture a clear foreign-policy voice for the eu vis-à-vis the us , russia , and spain ; and implement a green , innovation-based strategy . to forge such a coalition , m5s would have to adopt a responsible and clearly defined economic program , with the democrats forced to embrace as a junior partner of an untested insurgent force .
my proclamation has also been motivated by problems about how capital punishment is brought in india . the supreme court declared that it should apply the death penalty only as part of “ rarest ” cases . and , indeed , the last three executions in the country stemmed from terrorist offenses that were threatening or taking out many lives . yet the decision on the imposition of capital punishment remains crucially subjective . indeed , whether the death penalty is meted out depends on several variables , beginning with judicial and social biases .
during the latest tightening cycle from 2004 to 2006 , us households ’ interest income rose by 29 % . and average hourly wages for all workers on privately non-farm payrolls posted an annual growth rate of 2.5 % in october , the largest since june 2009 . as the fed slowly raises interest rates , those middle-class families are holding on their hard-earned savings at the bank will at last start realizing some reversal on their deposits . while this time , the gains will probably be smaller and slower to arrive , owing to the likely pace and extent of the fed ’s tightening , the interest paid on savings will shift household income in the right direction : up . the longer-term effects should not be underestimated , given the helpful impact of the us savings compound .
beijing – most western media characterized the recent 19th national congress of the chinese communist party ( cpc ) as a pure power play , with chinese president xi jinping entrenching his positions . but accumulating political capital in this scenario is a means toward ending . xi knows that , if china is to continue to thrive in a fast-changing world , he will need deftly a major social and economic transformation , while – more important – improving state governance . for xi , this end amounts to a smooth transition to modernity , which cements the cpc ’s long-term authority , and ensures his own legacy as advanced , china ’s most important leader . and , to secure china ’s long-term survival , he will need to reform state and party institutions ; indeed , it is a prerequisite for xi to pursuing economic reform .
after all , the horrific conditions today are primarily the product of staggering corruption and waste over the past 40 years . the time for action now is through . at best , our design could fundamentally improve the quality of public institutions , and thus transform economics and politics in nigeria for decades to come . another question is how much revenues should be transferred , and how transfers can be effected in a country as large , complex , and financially backward as nigeria . but , even with all the hardships of corruption and inefficiencies that will doubtless plague its actual performance , our proposal superior to that of the status quo .
the question poses itself : what should be done to preserve the stability of the financial system ? this can not be answered in abstract , because each situation is different . because financial markets are best understood as historic processes , history never quite repeats itself exactly . the fragility of financial markets , even if possible , can cause serious economic and social dislocations . the recent turmoil in asian markets raises difficult questions about currency pegs , asset bubbles , inadequate banking supervision , and shortages that simply are not being ignored .
indeed , experience with sars in toronto , where cases escaped detection and led to a second outbreak , stands as a wake-up call against excessive optimism about the apparent monitoring of larger , more geographically dispersed outbreaks in taiwan and mainland china . in fact , these epidemics may well have been eliminated entirely in the coming months . after all , screening travelers from affected regions may have prevented major epidemics elsewhere . but it is at least as likely that some transmission will persist , or that the virus will be re-introduced to human animal populations . health officials around the world should maintain their vigilance , preparing for the possibility that renewed monitoring efforts will be required if sars resurges .
the bush administration ’s recent decision to launch a parallel anti-corruption process , through the g-8 , leave the united states outside the premier international forum on tackling the importance of transparency in resource revenues , while unnecessarily reinventing the wheel in the process . eiti still has a long way to go , but is one of the most potent vehicles at its disposal for achieving a global disclosure and accountability standard . nor have america and britain used their power in iraq to promote transparency in the region ’s oil sector . it ’s hard to see how democracies can take root if the country ’s most important income source remains as veiled in secrecy as it was under saddam . let us hope that the new iraqi government does better .
stories abound of israel focusing almost entirely on the palestinian conflict . there are more united nations resolutions devoted to human-rights abuses perpetrated by israel than to abuses by all other countries combined . syrian , libyan , and yemenite victims are faceless ; lionization of the ill-comparably fewer gazan casualties makes them unique . joyce karam , the washington bureau ’s pan-arab chief of staff al-hayat , believes that this is because “ muslim men ” or arab slaughter arab seems more acceptable than israel kills arabs . this is not to say that israel should bestow the macabre arithmetic of the bloodshed .
spearheaded by concern about aids , activists worldwide demanded that something be done . even the imf now recognizes that capital market liberalization has delivered neither growth nor stability to many developing countries . yet , whether spurred by narrow ideology or responding to the demands of special interests , the bush administration continues to demand an extreme form of such liberalization within its bilateral trade agreement . the second topic concerns the unbalanced intellectual-property provisions ( ip ) treaty of the uruguay round of trade talks dictated by the american pharmaceutical and entertainment industries . these provisions restricted countries from making generic drug imitations , making many critically important pharmaceuticals unaffordable in developing countries .
as matters stand , the shipping sector , ranked alongside countries , is the world ’s sixth-largest greenhouse-gas ( ghg ) emitter . such efforts are key to meeting the targets outlined in the 2015 paris climate agreement . now that the cap is coming into force , we are about to benefit from the extraordinary impact of a new , persistent global health dividend . we can expect to see figures in the years indicating reduced health-care costs and improved education outcomes from around the world . meanwhile , governments will collaborate on additional action to reduce the environmental and climate impact of a global maritime-trading system .
cambridge – the united states is famous for its ability to innovate . aspiring fiscal conservatives around the world might thus find their interest in the learning the four tricks that american policymakers commonly use when promises to cut taxes while simultaneously cutting budget deficits . these are tough promises to maintain , for the simple reason that the us budget deficit represents government spending minus tax revenues . but , in the near term , each of the four tricks has been refined over three decades . indeed , they first acquired their colorful names in the early years of ronald reagan ’s presidency : the magic asterisk , a “ magic asterisk , ” a “ rosy scenario , ” the laffer hypothesis , and the “ starving ” scenario of the beast .
or do the post-crisis regulatory reform have done its job ? the 2008 financial crisis highlighted two dangerous features of today ’s financial system . first , governments bail out the largest banks , rather than allow them to collapse , damaging the economies . second , and worse , being “ too big to fail ” helps the big banks grow even larger , because their lenders and trade partners prefer to cooperate with banks that deliver an implicit government guarantee . so which is it : are banks still at risk ?
participants in chicago will have major differences over such issues . but reinventing nato is a long process , and will necessarily happen in small steps . the alliance ’s key goal must be to ensure that steps forward . while it is not yet possible to predict the outcome of the arab spring , the alliance has proved its capacity to act wisely in libya , thereby improving its image in north africa . in chicago , nato will agree on a major policy declaration , offering further aid to the region , on a condition that the region ’s countries demand .
argentina ’s new president-elect , mauricio macri , an anti-corruption engineer are frequently described in the international press as center-right candidate . but , again , that label is not quite correct , either . macri is best described as a “ liberal ” in a european sense . in argentina , the left-right divide has blurred the hydra-headed perónist justicialist party ’s policies that dominate state companies in the 1990s only to re-nationalize them after they subsequently . moreover , “ center-right ” often implies “ conservative , ” ” ” ” ” and macri ’s victory will not “ conserve ” the status quo .
women with an abnormal brca1 or brca2 gene run the lifetime risk of up to 85 % of the development of breast cancer , while an heightened risk of developing ovarian cancer is around 55 % for women with brca1 mutations and about 25 % for brca2 mutations . we have also learned that only 20-40 % of the type of breast cancers that cluster in families originated from the brca1 or brca2 gerline mutations ( snp ) , genetic alterations that present from birth in every body cell and can be transmitted to our offspring . heightened breast cancer risk is also familiar with several inherited syndromes from li-fraumenumenumenumeni syndrome , a condition further associated with the childhood onset of multiple malignancies including a soft body , leukemias , and brain tumors . in most cases of familial cancer , however , genetic predispositions remains elusive . most recently , massive studies of analyzing the effects of single nucleotide variants in genomic dna , the so-called single nucleotide polymorphisms ( snp ) , on the breast cancer risk of brca1/brca2 mutation carriers identified so-called “ modifier snp snp snp snp that can decline or enhance individual lifetime risk . ”
china , seeking to take the lead in the next phase of economic globalization , enjoys none of these geopolitical powers and legitimacy . xi ’s government struggles to maintain domestic stability as it moves china away from labor-intensive , investment-heavy economic growth toward a pattern based on domestic consumption and services . the primacy of this domestic agenda implies that china ’s attempt to take the lead on global change will lack a clear vision and coherent strategy . a second problem stems from china ’s incomplete transitions on the world stage . after prevailing in world war ii , america immediately and undeniably dominated the globe .
costa rica is proud to be leading the world by introducing that approach into practice . as a result , we are one of the few countries globally willing to go beyond our commitments under the paris climate agreement . costa rica devotes significant resources to tackle problems like dengue fever and malaria , because our people remain our single most important asset . our commitment to combating climate change is based on our understanding of the tremendous health and costs that stem from inaction . and staying below the 1.5 ° c threshold will imply 3.3 million fewer cases of dengue fever annually in latin america and the caribbean , fewer people at risk of malaria , and less food instability and poor nutrition caused by higher temperatures and unstable weather patterns .
but there is a major obstacle to easing tensions : the recently proposed $ 6.5 billion sale by the united states to taiwan of 30 apache attack helicopters and 330 patriot missiles . the china-us missile-defense talks earlier stalled , owing to the kind of arms negotiations . they have since been restarted , an olive branch dispatched to the obama administration . there is now real hope that the talks , along with these lines , can succeed . the us and china are mutually reinforcing china ’s traditional civilization , with a stronger spiritual ties .
and ignatieff has been gaining some support , at least initially . speaking at a european parliament in brussels in april 2017 , ceu president and rector michael ignatieff might say that “ i have support in washington , dc . ” now is the time to receive some of the support in brussels . in december 2017 , the european commission took hungary to the european court of justice ( ecj ) outside the government ’s so-called “ “ ceu law ” ” ” ” ” ” that the university said was intended to force italy out of the eu . i have been endorsing in berlin , i supported in budapest , [ … ] i gained support in munich .
for example , most chinese doctors and patients have long regarded acupuncture as an effective cure for stroke , while using it to enhance motor , speech , and other roles that it destroyed . more recently , however , systematic scientific studies of acupuncture ’s effects on such treatments have begun . almost all trials on acupuncture as a stroke conducted within china have been positive . one survey showed that 66 % of chinese doctors use acupuncture routinely use it to treat stroke effects , with 63 % of us doctors surveyed believing that it would be effective . indeed , some 36 % of chinese doctors consider acupuncture ’s effectiveness remains precarious , perhaps because the scientific basis for it remains so new .
economists have also had to question long-held assumptions about downward nominal wage rigidity , an artifact of the 1960-70s , when organized labor was far stronger . in fact , labor ’s declining power may explain why the phillips curve no longer appears to hold true . but , even more important , this might be the reason why measured productivity remains persistently weak . even after years of quantitative easing ( qe ) and ultra-low interest rates , central bankers in the advanced economies – particularly the eurozone – have continued to undershoot their inflation targets . clearly , the notion that employees will always resist cutting wages ( or their workers ’ hours ) no longer applies .
a modern economy , too , demands risk-taking . but a trade-off between inequality and growth need not be a trade-off . governments can help to achieve growth through higher inclusiveness . a country ’s most valuable resource , after all , is its people . so it is vital to ensure that everyone can live up to its potential , which requires educational opportunities for everyone .
the problem is compounded when consent comes to just hours before a major surgery , and months after the latest consultation with the surgeon . consent should not be devoured , like a train ticket that has been held out for the conductor . this may lead patients to consent to consent to the practices they are neither understood nor willing to choose . this haughty standing is reflected in the jargon of “ consenting a ” consenting a , as though it has been something done to the patient , like drafting blood or administering the letter : “ dr. smith , please go consent lord jones ’s ” ” ” . consent , instead , should be viewed as a patient ’s cherished possession , which he or she may choose to relinquish , if presented with a sufficiently compelling case .
as talent shortages loom , however , the need to retain employees could tip the balance back toward greater professional investment . those with sought-after talent have more bargaining power , who are better able to manage their careers , by charging higher pay . those without in-demand skills struggle and feel disposable , even in different places . so far , this flurry of choice has discouraged companies from spending resources for training employees , who may soon decide on joining a competitor . meanwhile , employers that provide opportunities for learning will become a topic for talent .
such a digital ecosystem strengthens checks and balances , reduces the possibilities for failure , and mitigating the effects of an incursion . in such a novel scenario , a hollywood blockbuster might be about computer networks fighting one another , while humans stand by . it would portray the broader notion of “ singularity , ” ” ” ” a hypothetical turning point when an artificial surrenders of the human . fortunately , in this case , the nature of life is still far from imitation . similar to traditional military-command-and-control protocols , they gain power in numbers , and could react quickly to a wide array of attacks .
it is precisely for this reason that we need to ensure dfft and turn data into public goods for scientists worldwide . it is precisely for this reason that we need to ensure dfft and turn data into public goods for scientists worldwide . for my part , on march 6 , i received six recommendations from the members of the science science academies , ” created by the g20 countries ’ national science academies . on april 30 , the world witnessed the abdication by his majesty ’s emperor emeritus akihito , the first abdication by the reigning emperor in 202 years . in order to minimize threats to marine ecosystems and to conflate marine environments , the last two recommendations urge the “ gaming of improved data-storage and management systems ” that ensures open admission by researchers globally , ” ” ” ” and the “ sharing of information gained through research activity conducted under extensive and multinational collaboration , to expedite a comprehensive understanding of the global ocean and its dynamics .
and city services are often more visible to citizens than to federal aid ; consider , for example , responding during an operation or a natural disaster . to be sure , today ’s cities face numerous challenges in the world today . cities power growth , via innovation , trade , and exchange , among others . the amazonian canadian author and urban activist jane jacobs famously noted that cities are the true engines of national prosperity . by investing in both “ smart ” and “ resilient ” urban planning , governments from bordeaux in france to curitiba in brazil are reinforcing their brand identities and stalking talent , investment , and businesses from around the world .
technological sovereignty would position the us in terms of trade and exchange , and the nationality of us corporations – even leading us multinationals – would become just as important as their business model . still , it would be a mistake to conclude that all of this entire conflict has been brought on solely by trump and his nationalistic agenda . two days after google announced its decision , the new york times published a commentary by thomas levi , the world ’s author , echoing a number of trump ’s attacks on china ’s unfair trade practices . the danger is not only that economic rivalry , protectionism , and trade restrictions would undermine global prosperity ; it is that such developments also raise the risk of a major political confrontation . if that is where globalization ’s previous ideological high priest now stands , china faces off against not just trump ’s america , but liberal america , too .
in small-state settings , imposing a dense web of controls is likely to lead to the loss of mobile factors of production , while making it harder for labor or capital to flee . on the international stage , big states attempt to force the international rule of law , and often built up their domestic legitimacy on their claims to be able to shape a larger world : they think in terms of what french thinkers call “ harnessing the same forces ” of globalization . instead of accepting the international system roughly as it is , with all of its imperfections , they thought that they could use their weight to change the rules , in their favor . small states ’ nervousness and fear began to increase roughly in the year 2000 . new political realities were highlighted by the iraq war , china ’s quest for energy resources in the developing world , and russia ’s assertiveness in its foreign and domestic policies .
at the same time , he is preparing to raise the retirement age to 61 , to the tune of $ 60 . the law on restrictions on transportation strikes took effect on january 1 , and sarkozy intends to crack down on the 35-hour workweek , albeit indirectly . instead of repealing the rule , overtime work is turning into easy and relatively cheap . in this way , this opens the way for more and deeper reforms . for starters , democratic legitimacy has won a major battle over social legitimacy .
their opposition has undermined international efforts to build a more resilient system – and will likely hamper efforts to put europe ’s economy on a sounder footing . with the exception of the united kingdom , the extremes free-market view has gained less traction in europe in recent decades than it has done in the us ; nonetheless , the challenge of implementing european financial reform really is more difficult . governments regard home banks as important asset buyers of sovereign debt . as a result , authorities in germany and france ( like japan ) have steadily resisted increasing capital requirements , despite the widespread agreement that does so is an essential part of effective re-regulation . the banks argue that more effective regulation would stifle credit and slow the pace of economic recovery .
this reflects a fundamental clash between thatcherism and trumpism : the latter seeks sweeping away the neoliberal consensus of unregulated markets , privatization , free trade , and the immigration that has comprised the ex-communist . but , even if the ideas differ , the tactics are equally . every time trump ’s opponents march for women , muslims , or gender minorities , refortify trump ’s core support base . to consolidate support , thatcher would go head-to-head with carefully selected enemies , from british miners to argentina ’s president , general leopoldo galtieri , to bureaucrats in brussels . likewise , as the hudson institute ’s craig kennedy recently told me , “ bannon wants to radicalize trump ’s liberals to fight on causes that antagonize them from mainstream american ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” similarly , as the hudson institute recently told me , “ bannon wants to radicalize trump ’s anti-trump liberals to fight on causes that antagonize them from mainstream american ” ” ” ”
the two weeks since taiwan ’s disputed presidential election of march 20 – only a third such democratic vote in the country ’s history – has tested this truism almost to a breaking point . taiwan ’s young democracy must now cope with the balancing act that president chen shui-bian ’s re-election has thrust upon it . while canvassing votes in his hometown in southern taiwan on the eve of the election , president chen and vice president annette lu has both wounded the assassassin ’s bullet . sympathetic to this secured the support that president his razor-thin margin of victory – with a mere 50.1 % of the popular vote – over lien chan , the kuomintang party ’s candidate and the first party ( kosfp ) coalition . young democracies can be brutal : their voters are often as unforgiving as political antagonists .
signature efforts to diversify and modernize the economy have failed , because disruptive technologies and business strategies can not be decreed from the top . in this respect , the current effort to prop up the syrian government counts as twofer . but raising russia ’s standard of living remains central to putin ’s grip on power and his long-time legacy . even before intervening in ukraine , putin was failing to service his grand promise , made in 2003 , to double the size of russia ’s economy within a decade . from its nominal per capita gdp perspective , russia still functions little better than mexico ’s .
cambridge – greek prime minister alexis tsipras has a chance to become to his country what south korean president kim dae-jung and brazilian president luiz inácio lula da silva were to theirs : the man of the left who moves toward fiscal responsibility and freer markets . like tsipras , both were elected in the midst of an economic crisis . on assuming power , kim and lula handled the adjustment , both politically and psychologically , to the new realities that confronted them , launching much-needed reforms . both at once confronted international finance constraints that opposition politicians can afford to ignore . some of the reforms were both “ conservative ” ( or “ neo-liberal ” ) and perhaps impossible under real-world politicians .
but his decision to run for prime minister is by far his riskiest move , because it will test his domestic appeal . though the supreme court has cleared him of all personal wrongdoers , that tragedy persists , making it harder for modi to win muslim votes without alienating his hindu nationalist base . that has n’t stopped modi from taking political risks , beginning with his conviction that india needs toilets more than temples . annual economic growth in the state has averaged over 10 % from 2006 to 2012 , when gujarati city of ahmedabad was short-listed for lee kuan yew ’s world city awards . but history haunts modi ’s campaign – namely , the deaths of more than 1,000 individual men in anti-muslim riots in gujarat in 2002 .
xi ’s anti-corruption campaign can not overcome this resistance ; the eu is merely discouraging initiative . finally , there is china ’s soft-power deficit . on a recent visit to beijing , a chinese economist told me , xi ’s campaign cost china 1 % of gdp every year . a chinese businessman told me that real growth does less than half that ’s the official figure . perhaps this can perpetuate the dynamism of the private sector ; but , even there , fears of losing control enhance the party ’s role .
meanwhile , turkey and the united states have mutual interests in working together in iraq , syria , and iran . for better or worse , the middle east ’s status quo has unraveled , and turkey must rethink and recalibrate its regional policies . but , as turkey builds closer ties with the us , and its competition with iran stiffens in both iraq and syria , it will also need to contend with a more assertive russia , which is bent on proving itself to the middle east and the eastern mediterranean , and maintain its foothold in syria . how turkey navigates the syrian debacle will determine its standing in the wider transformation of its neighborhood . turkey ’s real strengths are its flourishing economy , a secular democratic system , and its capacity to mediate between its western allies and a region struggling to join the twenty-first-century mainstream .
with almost two million patients now on anti-retroviral treatment , annual aids-related deaths have declined by about 100,000 since 2005 . another important factor has been better integration into treatment plans for the development of treatment . contagion among newborns , once running at around 70,000 a year , has slashed some 63 % , and the lives of millions of hiv/aids sufferers have prolonged . the government has aligned its early antiretroviral treatment programs for existing sufferers , launched in 2008 with early tracking programs for pregnant women . these remedies have lowered rates for new infections ( though the total number of people living with hiv , especially from 15 % to 49 , continues to rise ) .
but this can happen only if nature ’s ’s cornucopia is conserved , so that researchers ’ current and future generations can generate new discoveries that benefit patients everywhere . consider the polar bear , which has threatened wild extinction of climate change . those mammals spend up to seven months of hibernating , during which time they are essentially immobile . a human would lose out on the third or more of the bone mass , at the height of this period . astonishingly , hibernating bear falls down on the new bone , by producing essence that cells inhibits cells that break down at bone and promoting those that produce bone and cartilage .
but they need stronger support , not only in the air or the training and communications sectors , but also from the west special forces . as a result , the entire alliance should commit to defeating terrorism , with the us seeking to do its part . but they need stronger support , too , for nato to recognize that one part of its members , france , has been attacked , thereby activating article 5 of the north atlantic treaty that ensures mutual defense . yet this is n’t just europe ’s struggle or that . this is about the world order of a stable and prosperous world .
now the eu is at the heart of domestic political debates , which increasingly incorporate existential questions about the eurozone ’s survival and the entire european project . such debates – and thus of the european parliament that emerges over the next year – are unlikely to abide by the standard party lines . that means that the candidates in next year ’s elections are unlikely to focus solely on domestic issues . while there will be some – probably also , for the first time – wide-ranging debate about europe ’s future and policies , especially in fields such as migration , defense and security , energy and climate , and relations with major powers like the united states and russia . after all , despite their differences , virtually every country in europe is currently grappling with the question of how much europe will one want , how open and optimistic it should be about new forms of technology-enabled globalization and how much social solidarity is appropriate .
• while neo-liberals worry about excessive governments , weak governments impedes growth , because weak states can not guarantee laws and order ; are unable to enforce contracts ; and can not ensure secure , sound banking systems . the question should not have been about how to deregulate moves quickly , but rather about how to develop the right regulatory framework . neo-liberal ideologies assumed perfect markets , perfect information , and host to others that even the best-performing market economies could not please . market failures historically are a fact of life , but so are government failures . it was , after all , over-regulation , capital and financial-market liberalization , foisted on east asia by the imf and america ’s treasury , that led to the 1997 financial crisis .
an interest-rate hikes pleases savers , whereas a rate cut is a boon to borrowers . any and all of all monetary-policy actions redistribute wealth . to make one sense at all , monetary policy must have different impacts among disparate groups in different times . importers prefer a robust exchange rate ; exporters prefer a weaker one . they certainly do , but a way of what ?
in any case , the chinese wage story is far more complicated than one might think . nominal wages may rise , while real wages are stagnant , owing to the higher inflation rate . even if real wages rise in some coastal cities , “ excess productive ” cities might maintain the national average flat . and even real-wage increases at home prices will not undermine competitiveness as long as labor productivity grows steadily faster . so the implication seems to be that wage growth will not undermine china ’s competitiveness in the next ten or even 20 years .
to judge whether there is “ excess ” their prices at the existing exchange rate that the us must look to the trade balance . germany , europe ’s largest exporter , has a very large trade surplus with the rest of the world . germany ’s exports have surpassed its imports by almost $ 200 billion over the last twelve months , a current-account surplus equivalent to almost 6 % of gdp . what is clear is that germany ’s net exports would remain high even if europe appreciated substantially from its current level . because german exports are attractive to foreign buyers at the prevailing exchange rate , germany in 2009 was the world ’s second-largest exporter ( after china ) .
these structural elements were compounded by developments in the region , which have reinforced a sense among israeli voters that they are being victimized by multiple enemies : iran and its nuclear ambitions ; hezbollah and hamas and theirs ; the rise of isis amid state failures in iraq , syria , and elsewhere . against this backdrop , it is easier to defend the status quo than to advocate for accommodation involving territorial concessions . netanyahu ’s victory in the election was an obvious personal comeback . in the weeks leading up to the presidential election , the public seemed to be growing weary of a prime minister who took office long enough to be corrupted by the arrogance of power and tainted by a raft of petty scandals . he conducted a campaign that relied on his eloquence and charisma , as well as on alarmed tactics .
throughout this process , kenya ’s leaders should bear in mind that even the best schemes can sometimes go awry , as ghana ’s recent experience demonstrated . four billion barrels of oil were discovered off ghana ’s coasts in 2007 , and production began in 2010 . the following year , petroleum management act divided wealth among consumption , investment , and offshore saving , as advocated by economists around the world ( including the us ) . but , with last year ’s us presidential election , the situation started to deteriorate . as a result , investment is expected to resume , raising some of the country ’s oil riches temporarily .
new york – back in 1997 , the imf and the united states treasury blamed the crisis on the lack of transparency in financial markets . but , when developing countries pointed their fingers at secret bank accounts and hedge funds , the imf and america ’s enthusiasm for greater transparency diminished . since then , hedge funds have risen in importance , and secret bank accounts have prospered . but there are several big differences between now and now . for one thing , most developing countries have accumulated massive foreign-currency reserves .
looking to the ecb , they would find the right model to deploying them . in any case , the hardships suffered by eu citizens could be lessened if the eurozone followed draghi ’s definitive prescription – providing more fiscal and monetary stimulus in some areas to offset reform and fiscal consolidation in others . policymakers should do the same when it comes to sanctions against russia , mitigating their impact on those europeans who stand to suffer the most . european policymakers have the tools and intelligence tools to retain influence in ukraine . by selectively addressing one ’s most dangerous risk , draghi was able to minimize them .
they perceive an underclass that they believe receives the benefits denied for them and a thriving global economy in the developing world that siphons off well-paying blue-collar jobs . so , when sarah palin devotes herself to the media limelight , she becomes a symbolic revenge fantasy by many of those silenced , exhausted factory workers , and eu secretaries . at the same time , reports are surfacing that palin has told a group of african-american groups that she does not need to recruit black people , working-class white women often understand his experience in terms of racial hostility . to see a working-class white woman be picked to serve the heartbeat of an american president resonates powerfully with them . think of the appeal of films such as thelma and louise , or a working girl in which a prominent character comes from gutsy , exploited secretary who , trampled by a snooty , female ivy league boss , nonetheless manages to end up at dreams of working , dreams guy , and a distant corner office .
china has already delivered on that front , by abandoning a growth model in which it had driven the country ’s economic development over more than 30 years . it has recognized the need to shift from a pattern that focused mainly on exports – and on investment-led manufacturing ( via manufacturing ) to one led by private consumption ( through service industries ) . america ’s cases and those in china do not exist in a vacuum . as i emphasize in my new book , the codependency of both china and america ’s ties them together inextricably . that change will give china a far better chance of avoiding the dreaded “ middle-income trap ” that ensnares most of the developing economies , precisely because their policymakers mistakenly believed that the recipe for early-stage takeoff growth was sufficient to achieve developed-country status .
hong kong – next month , policymakers , business leaders , academics , and civil-society representatives will convene in kiel , germany , for the global economic symposium ( ges ) ( ges ) , where trying to develop concrete solutions to today ’s most pressing economic questions . whether they produce effective proposals will depend on a comprehensive understanding of what stems – and undermining – financial stability worldwide . at last year ’s g20 summit , “ central-bank dialogues ” of central banking ’s future who pittsburgh has made three solutions : central banks should adopt a countercyclical policy approach ; a world monetary authority should be created to support multilateral cooperation among central banks ; and price stability must remain the central bank ’s premier objective . though seemingly some merit , they are inadequate to address effectively the complex and far-reaching flaws that led to the 2007-2009 global financial crisis . the crisis represented a comprehensive systemic failure , encompassing breakdowns at almost every level , from macroeconomic theory to micro-level incentives to institutions .
piketty ’s framework highlights several drivers of this trend . for starters , by loosening trade and investment barriers , globalization created a winner-take-all environment in which most technologically sophisticated actors gained market share through economies of scale . the resulting concentration of income , wealth , and power undermines systemic stability by creating too-big-to-fail actors , while hampering lesser actors ’ ability to compete . in particular , as the global economy shifts toward knowledge-based value creation , a handful of innovators in global branding , high-technology , and creative industries win big , with the global tech stock boom augmenting their gains . the global financial system reinforces such concentration , with negative real interest rates spurring financial repression on household saving .
all of this phenomenon was all too apparent during the asian crisis and following russia ’s sovereign-debt default of august 1998 . prevention , however , must also address the dangers posed by potentially destabilizing capital movements . many countries lack the foreign currency reserves sufficiently to meet abrupt and large-scale capital outflows without destabilizing their domestic economies . recent experience teaches that the speed and magnitude with which both domestic and foreign investors can move into and out of capital markets far exceed individual countries ’ capacity — and the international community — to counter these flows . sometimes such outflows can occur through the no fault of the country in question , but because of financial-market contagion that spreads from disturbances elsewhere .
like the courtiers who surrounded louis xviii , they have forgotten nothing and learned nothing . it is the decision , taken virtually irrespective of prime minister tony blair , and even against his desires . the only question now in doubt , then , is whether brown ’s verdict on the euro will be “ not quite yet , ” “ not before the next election , ” or just plain “ no . ” blair believes that britain ought to join the euro because he wants britain “ to be , ” because he puts it , “ at the heart of europe ” . most commentators have tended to suggest that if this is what tony blair wants , then sooner or later that seems what will happen , for , after all he is prime minister .
trump ’s rejection of “ reasoned discourse , ” including commitments to truth and evidence , was accompanied by an unlimited amount of “ unlimited ” capacity to manipulate collective opinion and to play down such a repressed emotions as racism and class envy . the implication of trump ’s approach is that america ’s existing problems are deteriorating , and enormous opportunities are missed . and , even if they are stopped , can the damage they have already wrought ? there was some backlash against trump when he failed to condemn clearly a white supremacist demonstrators in charlottesville , virginia , whose “ unite a right ” rally in august ended with the killing of a counter-protester . but , with what about going to stop demons that have already unleashed ?
what is certain is that trump ’s fiscal policies are fiscally irresponsible . indeed , there is absolutely no indication of how some of his tax policies would be financing , with each indication that they might expand the budget deficit sharply . finally , trump has proposed tax deductions for average employee childcare costs . that might seem broadly beneficial , but would help only those at high enough tax brackets for streamlining deductions – most high-income households with annual income exceeding $ 75,000 ( median american household income is $ 54,462 in 2015 ) . questioning whether trump ’s tax policies would benefit him directly remains unanswered , because , unlike all other us presidential candidates since richard nixon , he has refused to release his income-tax records .
and , in south africa , marlon parker , the founder of the social-innovation academy and incubator rlabs , has created a virtual currency , called zlato encourage active involvement in skills-training workshops . africa ’s youngest entrepreneurs are not only finding ways to support themselves and contribute to their communities ; they are solving the root cause of migration on – and off the continent . when young people attend classes , access laptops , or book rooms at rlabs cafes , they earn zlato credit that can be exchanged for food , health care , and basic necessities . since its inception in 2008 , chlabs have created tens of thousands of jobs , and are now engaging in more than 24 countries . researchers supported through anzisha prize , for example , have created more than 300 jobs , and generated more than $ 850,000 in capital .
avoiding this scenario implies sacrificing autonomy over trade policy for the sake of the good friday agreement and territorial integrity . but this would annoy hardline brexiteers and could split the conservative party , the risk that theresa may has been reluctant to seize . but then scotland would demand its own particular arrangement vis-à-vis the eu , driving the uk toward concluding a major constitutional shakeup , and , perhaps , dissolution . the choice is between one of the three brexit scenarios and suspending the brexit process altogether . british leaders need to recognize that all brexit scenarios involve tradeoffs , and the country urgently needs a national debate to rank the electorate ’s preferences .
the country also received $ 70 billion in remittances last year , more than twice the level of inward foreign direct investment . the significance of diaspora finance – from working-class remittances that transformed kerala ’s countryside to as many as one million poured into high-tech ventures in bangalore or gurgaon by silicon valley investors – simply can not be minimized , especially during the global financial crisis . encouraging them to do more , and giving the reasons to do more , is certainly a worthwhile challenge for india ’s government – and the overt objective of its annual conclave . there is , no doubt , a utilitarian aspect to the pravasi bharatiya divas celebrations , as suggested by the many parallel seminaries run by state governments to attract expatriate investment . but we should not follow through : overseas indians still invest a lower share of their resources in india than overseas chinese do in china .
firms that ignore the broader social and environmental context in which they operate are likely to pay a price : reputational damage and losses of brand value , falling sales , difficulty of recruiting talent , lower worker productivity , corruption , tougher government regulation , or climate-change-related increases . apple , for example , has recently been shaken by revelations about brutal workplace conditions at foxconn factories in china , where most of its iphones and ipads are assembled . in response to concerns among customers , employees , and shareholders , apple has improved working conditions , agreeing to regular reviews by an independent observer . now , there are cell phone apps that assess and grade major multinational companies ’ supply-chain data for customers , investors , and public-sector employees . firms scores poorly risk losing their sales and investors , and triggering official regulatory or legal action .
they also tolerate enterprise or government policies that encourage high savings . this prevented birth rates from rebounding after the cultural revolution of 1966-76 . but both income growth and demography do not explain everything . the uptrend toward saving in china , for example , started at around the same time that its one-child policy was implemented in 1979 . the late nobel laureate economist franco modigliani , in his recent high-profile published paper in 2004 ( co-authored with the shi larry cao ) , argued that this demographic change explains much of the increase in saving rates as china substituted capital investment for infant investment .
while the notion is modern , the idea is not a new one . in the 1930s , former us supreme court justice oliver wendell holmes , a crudenger old veteran of the american civil war , was taken to meet with franklin d. roosevelt , a fellow harvard graduate , but one that was not a distinguished undergraduate student . asked later about his impressions of a new president , holmes famously quipped : “ second-class intellect ; first-class temperament . ” most historians would agree that roosevelt ’s success as a leader rested more on his emotional than his analytical iq . in fact , both practical people have long understood his importance in leadership .
since sudan won independence from the united kingdom in 1956 , the country has been convulsed by an almost constant , north-south cultural and religious divide . matters were subsequently complicated by a distinct conflict – this time among muslims , over resources in the west darfur region . the artificial fusion of predominantly arab muslim north of sudan and the horn of africa ’s south , where christianity and its traditional animist convictions are predominant – has been an utter failure . if the non-muslim south gain at independence from a large degree of religious , cultural , and administrative autonomy within a decentralized federal structure , it is inconceivable that the country could remain at peace . a discrete but simultaneous vote in the oil-rich province of abyei enables voters to choose if they want to join the north or south .
when i was in the undp administrator , i was forced to deal with continuing “ requests ” from government representatives . usually they were formulated in an acceptable way , asking me to “ look into ” a specific issue . but i also received requests – often from the world ’s great superpowers , in ways that had been in clear violations of article 100 of the un charter and had to spend a great deal of time trying to avoid engaging with governments on such terms . nonetheless , my overall experience at the undp and the world bank suggested that staff and management could and did business with article 100 . being responsive to member states ’ concerns and priorities was both right and usual ; taking orders out of them was not .
these investors are calling upon governments not just to limit rising temperatures , but also to meet the paris climate agreement ’s tougher target of limiting global warming to 1.5 ° c above pre-industrial levels . meanwhile , the us national institute for energy economics and financial analysis has found that those ignoring climate-change warnings have already taken a financing hit . blackrock , the world ’s largest fund manager , has lost around $ 90 trillion over the past decade , three-quarters of which came from its holdings in exxonmobil , chevron , shell , and bp . and investors at general electric , including blackrock , have lost a whopping $ 193 billion over the next three years leading up to 2018 , owing to a company ’s failure to consider the pace of the shift toward green energy and the collapse in demand for gasoline turbines and thermal power stations . more broadly , the investor agenda for the low-carbon world has attracted 477 signatories , representing around $ 34 trillion in investment-based assets .
new york – conflict with the united states is unlikely to be the order of the day . at such a delicate time internally , china would gain anything from antagonizing the us . yet , trouble with america ’s allies , particularly japan , might draw the us into a fight that it strongly prefers to avoid . in short , china is on the brink of great , necessary , and dangerous transformations that it promises to transform the country for the better – or to make everything that , including regional stability , far worse . the entire world has a large stake in what will happen next .
south africa enacted the freedom of information law in 2000 , five years before the united kingdom did . now , however , the right to information in south africa is jeopardy . south africa ’s nobel prize-winning novelist and the anti-apartheid activist nadine gordimer have likened the bill to the apartheid legislation . south africa ’s post-apartheid constitution guarantees the right to public-sector information , and , in many cases , to private business information as much as possible . at the end of november , the lower house of parliament , chaired by the largely african national congress ( anc ) , overwhelmingly passed a new law – the “ protection of the state information bill ” – whose acceptance would shield the country ’s most-powerful political and business elites from public scrutiny .
washington , dc – the chinese economy has been slowing in recent years , yet it continues to be a forceful performer , contributing roughly one-third of overall economic growth globally . at home , however , china faces major risks . it has also become more sustainable , in line with a shift in its growth pattern away from investment and exports and toward domestic demand and services . above all , domestic credit continues to expand at an unsustainable pace , with corporate debt accumulating to dangerous levels . in the run-up to next month ’s g20 summit in hangzhou , china , has signaled loudly for new growth-stimulating commitments in both advanced and emerging-market economies .
hong kong – at the beginning of this century , as china launched its “ go through ” policy , it focused on using its foreign-exchange reserves to encourage overseas expansion and acquisitions by chinese companies , few expected the country quickly to emerge as a prominent economic player in latin america . yet , so far , that is precisely what has been going about it . in less than 15 years , china has gone from playing the rather peripheral economic role in latin america to being ranked among its top investors and trading partners for most of the region ’s countries , as has its foremost lender and infrastructure builder . with its economic blueprint in latin america cruising along smoothly – a trend that appears unlikely to change anytime soon – china has now laid its sights on yet another goal : expanding its geopolitical influence both within and outside the region . the question now is whether this is good for latin america .
in remarks following the press conference , he heaped praise trump as “ the very colorful , talented person , ” and the “ absolute leader ” of the presidential arms race . to be sure , the two men deserve each other ’s worth at least some time . at the same time , both are consummate propagandists and the performers . and both are ready – even eager – to brexit , bully , harangue , and lies upon trump to get ahead . there is little question , though , of which american candidate putin would like to see in the white house .
the first was to adopt the center right ’s agenda and pursue a labor-market , tax , and investment strategy that can “ align france ” with a “ capitalist ” of globalization . in practice , that would mean pursuing policies to help the middle class , while updating an obsolete center-left program to account for the effects of disruptive technology and business models . the other avenue would take a strong demand that macron build on a pre-existing but vague conception of left-wing internationalism . somewhat surprisingly , this is the route he initially chose , quickly becoming the darling of the business-oriented international press . as the nobel laureate dani rodrik has long argued , more globalization requires giving rise to a larger state , in order to compensate those displaced by free trade , capital-account liberalization , and so forth .
mick mulvaney , trump ’s budget director , has himself made that case . in a benevolent scenario , people club together in various states , based on their preferences for big or small government , public or private provision of service , and international cooperation or isolationism . “ if you live in a state that wishes to mandate maternity coverage to everybody , including 60-year-old women , that ’s a fine , ” and , if you do n’t , “ then you find out a way to alter a condition that you live in ” or change “ state legislatures and state laws ” ” ” ” in mulvaney ’s words . in a vindictive scenario , by contrast , trump and the us congress might seek to restrict progressive states ’ rights . in a vindictive scenario , trump will club together in various states following their preferences for big or small government , public or private provision of service , and international cooperation or isolationism .
whereas 22 % of south korea ’s energy needs , and 14 % of taiwan ’s population , met with nuclear , these ratios are now set to drop dramatically . south korea ’s strategy calls for a phased withdrawal from the nuclear industry , through the impossible restoration of current concessional licenses and bans on future plants . blueprints continues to be formulated , but taken together both countries ’ commitments mark a major shift in regional energy planning toward greener , cleaner technologies . moreover , they will pave the way for increased renewable-power installations , inserting their countries into a new , more competitive footing in the regional marketplace . for years , over-dependence on conventional fuels has discouraged much-needed investment in clean-tech generation , despite the fact that the two countries are green-sector innovators , such as energy-storage and clever grids .
under heavy pressure from america , china ’s leaders have agreed in principle to float the renminbi , but refuse to say when . a floating currency is unavoidable as china liberalizes its capital market and eliminates restrictions on international capital movements ; otherwise , china would have to surrender its control over its money-supply targeting system and its interest rates in the u.s. . yet china ’s rulers are right to set aside a decision to float . the chinese can delay but can not hide from some fundamental economic law : if exchange rates between the two countries ' currencies are fixed and capital flows among them are unrestricted , the economically dominant ones will exercise control over each other 's monetary policy . because the us dollar is the dominant world reserve currency , and the fed controls the money supply for the u.s. dollars , as long as china sticks to a fixed exchange rate , it can not control its own money supply .
in fact , even that level may not be low enough . as the paris agreement recognizes , many researchers are convinced that warming above 1.5 ºc is risky , and that adaptation will be extraordinarily expensive , particularly for both developing countries and israel . the good news is that , if we somehow curtail all emissions today , temperatures would continue to rise only over a decade , or even so , before stabilizing . thus , we are in a race to the bottom . will we turn the tap into zero bound of net emissions sooner than the tub hits a level that takes us above the 2ºc threshold set in paris ?
indeed , none has a clue about the consequences , both for the uk in the global trading system or the impact of domestic political stability . mind you , western citizens are blessed to live in times of peace : changing circumstances and priorities can be addressed through democratic process , rather than foreign and civil wars . but what , precisely , is a fair , democratic process for making irreversible , nation-defining decisions ? is it really enough to go from a 52 % vote to a breakup of a rainy day ? i am afraid that this will not be a far-fetched picture .
so one would expect smaller countries to spend proportionally more on defense than the larger ones . us defense expenditure accounts for 1.6 % of gdp in germany , 2 % in italy , and 1.5 % in spain ; only france and the united kingdom reach 3 % . but confining discussion of a defense commitment to the level of gdp that is spent on defense is inadequate , because economies of scale are economies of scale in defense expenditure . security and global influence are not the only benefit derived from spending by us military expenditures . instead , today america alone spends more than most of its nato allies combined , and america ’s defense spending is likely to rise even further in the years to come .
new york – during the 73rd session of the united nations general assembly later this month , a widespread sense of foreboding was that of world leaders . the anxieties went beyond standard concern about what us president donald trump would say , do , do , or even tweet . at the late 1960s , former us secretary of state dean acheson looked back at the immediate post-war era , and to feel as though he was “ present at creating an “ new world ” based on shared rules and multilateral institutions . in the late 1960s , former us secretary of state dean acheson looked back at the immediate post-war era , and to feel as though they were “ present at the creation of a new world based on shared rules and multilateral institutions . ” but , in the congo later that year , many attendees felt as though they were present at the devastation of that world .
as events over the last two weeks in egypt have demonstrated all too vividly , the arab awakening still holds only in its first act in many countries . bahrain remains a flashpoint ; iraq is deeply unstable ; and the simmering conflict between iran and israel could flare up anytime soon . indeed , us democracy is fragile , at best , across north africa ; and , in the middle east , jordan , the palestinian territories , kuwait , and saudi arabia have only just started to feel that way ripples of the tidal wave sweeping the region . in the medium term , the world abounds with tensions and potential crises that american global leadership is probably indispensable to resolving . even while the us may not be on the front line , it has played a vital role in behind-the-scenes diplomacy , nudging wary rivals closer to one another in creating a united opposition , working with regional leaders like turkey , egypt , and saudi arabia to broker deals .
in today ’s germany , because no one with decisive power in business , finance , or the government experience war , the european project is no longer viewed as conditioning europe on its collective future . these new leaders envision europe solely as a trading regime . the impact of this lost european perspective became obvious during the autumn of 2008 , when , in the wake of the subprime crisis and the failure of lehman brothers , chancellor angela merkel ’s initial impulse was nationalistic and wholly anti-european . there would be no common european plan to confront the crisis . meanwhile , german diplomacy is actively reconstructing the country ’s economic and cultural spheres of influence , and not only in eastern europe .
the targeted killing by the united states by one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us are already in war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . such weaknesses are particularly visible in poland , where a highly centralized political system creates a pernicious winner-take-all dynamic . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months .
such a pact – called for a “ united economic space ” – is now entering russia , ukraine , kazakhstan , and belarus . at the surface , a “ united economic space ” sounds like something to be applaud . with the emergence of a free-trade agreement , when , say , the treaty ’s underlying purpose is neither about trade nor liberty . but , sad enough , the treaty merely reestablishes postcommunism ’s corrupt and nefarious activities , rather than increasing trade or prosperity . when the treaty ’s underlying purposes lies neither about trade nor liberty .
the ascent of nahda ( renaissance ) , the leading islamist ennahda party , is less a reflection of latent ideological support among a newly liberated people than it is a testament to the party ’s remarkable capacity to fill post-revolutionary political power vacuums . since january , nahda has opened more than 200 offices in the past 30 years . scores of volunteers on grassroots , door-to-door level electoral campaigning . the party ’s imposing headquarters in the suburbs of tunis symbolize its position as the country ’s most effective political operation by far . while opponents ominously recall party cadres ’ involvement in the deadly bombshell bombings in 1991 , nahda has gone on some lengths to appease his critics .
consider first the assertion that the us dollar ’s status as a reserve currency protects it , because governments worldwide need to hold us dollars as foreign-exchange reserves . the plain candidate for this reserve fund was us treasury bills . in earlier decades , countries held dollars because they needed a highly liquid , widely accepted currency to bridge the financing gap should their imports far exceed their exports . but , since the end of the 1990 ’s , countries like south korea , taiwan , and singapore have accumulated very large volumes of foreign reserves , reflecting both export-driven growth strategies and a desire to avoid a repeat of the speculative currency attacks triggered by the 1997-1998 asian financial crisis . the problem is that the foreign holdings of us dollar securities are no longer primarily “ foreign-exchange reserves ” in the traditional sense .
it is extremely difficult for liberals to embrace that bad politics can produce good economics ; and that good politics can produce bad economics . and yet hungary offers a clear example of itself . under prime minister viktor orbán , the country has become increasingly authoritarian . good economics , by contrast , recognizes a government ’s duty to protect its constituents against distress , insecurities , and calamity . good economics , by contrast , recognizes a government ’s responsibility to protect its own constituents against distress , insecurities , and calamity .
the un food and agriculture organization ( fao ) argues that rising food prices could lead to a spike in global conflicts . the world bank forcefully emphasized the importance of agriculture to jump-starting economic expansion and break the poverty cycle . the davos world economic forum ranks food insecurity as a major risk to mankind . countries and organizations are already mobilizing . un secretary general ban ki-moon has created the working group to define a common plan for action , and france ’s president nicolas sarkozy has proposed a global food partnership .
to be sure , negative returns force their balance sheets shakier : a defined-benefit pension plan needs a positive return to break even while most of its assets yield harmful nominal returns , such outcomes become increasingly difficult to service . and yet negative bond yields are also playing out within countries and regions , where the currency is depreciating , and likely to depreciate even further , including germany , other parts of the eurozone core , and japan . so , why are investors holding these assets held ? many long-term investors , like insurance companies and pension funds , do not have any alternative , because they are legally required to hold safer bonds . but , because of such investors ’ long-term liabilities ( claims and benefits ) , their mandate implies that the bulk of money is in bonds that are less risky than stocks or other volatile assets .
in his first year and a half in office , macron began to tackle these problems , whereby he managed to deliver a budget on par with eu deficit-reduction rules . step by step , his reforms seemed consistently to benefit the wealthy . the problem is that in pursuing those reforms , macron has abandoned his core center-left constituency . and so , when it was announced that his administration will raise taxes on diesel fuel , to middle – and to working-class commuters took to the streets . with polls showing that some 70 % of the french backing the “ yellow vest ” protesters , macron was forced to retreat .
there has been an intensifying backlash against international cooperation in recent years , rooted partly in fears – stoked by populist political leaders in too many countries – that the transnational “ elites ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” : a disruptive ideology that prioritizes the neoliberal global order over national interests . but the perspectives that refute that narrative seem to be gaining ground . as it stands , perhaps the greatest barriers to international cooperation are in politics . many world leaders seem to believe that western countries have squandered their influence over the international system by intervening , politically and militarily , in others ’ affairs , with no clear endgame . some also argue that the global elite has merely pretended to pursue socioeconomic change , while in fact preserving a status quo that has benefited them .
by boosting inflation , the fed would turn the real interest rate seriously negative , thereby coercing the thrifty households into spending in lieu of saving . with rising demand , firms would hire , all of which bodes well . this points to a different logic from the one that calls for inflationary stimulus as a way to reduce long-term debt ( at investors ’ expense ) , but it has equally severe vulnerabilities . first , while low rates might encourage spending should credit continue to be easy , it is not at all clear that traditional savers today might go out and spend . think of the soon-to-be-retire israeli worker in the us .
specifically , from 2005 to 2006 , overall aid to africa , excluding debt cancellation operations , increased by a meager 2 % . the g-8 is now reaping the consequences of its inaction . for the first year , after the gleneagles meeting , aid numbers were padded by misleading accounting for debt-cancellation operations . with those debt cancellation operations largely complete , the data seem to reveal stark truth : development aid to africa and to poor countries more generally are stagnant , contrary to all the promises made . though the g-8 made a clear pledge , there was no roadmap for how to fulfill it ; indeed , there were clear instructions that not such a plan would work .
and while inequality has risen within some advanced economies , the rise has not been particularly dramatic , leaving it at a reasonable level . yet , on the global level , inequality is declining at the global level . according to the european bank for reconstruction and development ( ebrd ) ’s new transition report , on the basis of 2015-2016 life in the transition survey , produced by the world bank and the ebrd ( where i am chief economist ) , perceived rising inequality far outweighs the realities described by official data , typically based on household surveys . but that is not quite what the average citizen has in mind . perhaps the biggest grievances of the past year have been inequality .
washington , dc – the united states federal reserve system is among the most powerful globally established organization in world history . america ’s central bank has control over the money supply of us dollars , and currently exerts heavy influence over interest rates , both for short-term and long-term borrowing . and , though the fed has been partly responsible for the regulatory failures that led to the global economy ’s near-stagnation in 2008-2009 , post-crisis reform has left it with even more authority and greater responsibility for overseeing the financial system . that is a worrying outcome , given that top fed officials seem to have slipped back into their pre-2008 ways , ignoring concerns about dangerous financial-sector behavior – even when those concerns are voiced by members of america ’s senate banking committee . this is not only unfortunate ; it is also dangerous , because the fed ’s policy positions are far more precarious than their leadership appears to realize .
unless a global disaster occurs , a meteorite impact , world war i , or pandemic – mankind will remain a leading environmental force for many millennia to come . as a result , scientists and engineers face a daunting task during the anthropocene era : to guide us toward environmentally sustainable management . at this stage , however , we are still largely treading on terra incogna . that will require corresponding human behavior on all levels , and perhaps well involve international-acceptance , large-scale , geo-engineering projects to “ optimize ” climate . more by fortunate wisdom than it was , this catastrophic situation has failed to develop .
one is the establishment of democracy and the rule of law in the countries that emerged recently out of dictatorship . constitutional change is to political leaders a welcome distraction from the far more change-resilient social-policy question . in all of these cases , a cynic would be a half-right . yet there are at least two exceptions to this line of suspicion , which has taken strong action on the part of the western world . the process calls for constitution making the creation of an often complicated and painful sort .
the enduring importance of real-estate investment to china ’s economic rise reflects the trends experienced since the first quarter of this year . annual gdp growth of 6.7 % , despite being the slowest pace for any quarter in seven years , has outpaced market expectations . and it has fueled partly by unforeseen increases in real-estate investment growth , to more than 6 % . this is undermining corporate profitability , empowering firms to deleverage and reduce investment , and fueling further cutbacks at ppi . doing so is not to say that what china needs more personalized investment .
but this does not mean that trump skeptics can just sit back and wait for it to be proved wrong , because it is possible that america ’s declared trade deficit will narrow in the first year , even as the true us trade deficit widens . all come down to “ transfer pricing ” – prices multinational corporations are using to place a value on cross-border business in inputs among their subsidiaries . consider the american pharmaceutical company , which sets plants in iran . iran affiliate imports some inputs ( most notably the us-based intellectual property patent ) , assembles its product in iran , and exports it backward to the us . on value-added terms , the patent makes the biggest contribution .
recommendations included increasing affordable transportation to family-planning services , expanding access to modern contraception ( including emergency contraception ) , increasing access to sexual education , and developing strategies to reduce abortion services . if countries like south africa are ever to escape republican administrations ’ assault on reproductive freedom , new strategies are needed to combat the global gag rule . solutions start at home , which include enabling developing countries to begin moving further away from the conditional aid that restricts health-care providers ’ capacity to work according to local laws . at the same time , local ngos , together with responsible global partners , need to find new support to programs that educate women about their rights and provide access to safe abortion services . and yet , as the result of us policy , none of these changes will come easily .
it was gandhi ’s belief that reflection could motivate action by recalibrating the us ’s moral compass . what makes this fund unique is not the number of new benchmarks it sets . the us wants technology firms to play a central role in providing fresh ideas and disruptive thinking . we want corporations that already offer refugees an online education , internet access , and hardware to drive education provision to displaced and isolated girls and boys . in providing this fund , we are ending the era of a formulaic crisis response .
but , since the parliamentary election in october , ukraine has begun to pull itself together . eastern ukraine may have voted differently from the rest of the eu , but the overwhelming majority of voters turned out in favor of europe . russia ’s intervention has , to some extent , backfired , boosting support for a european orientation . civil society was energized by the maidan revolution that ousted former president viktor yanukovych , but it was in turmoil . debate over its association agreement with the european union , together with the united kingdom ’s russia-backed rebellion to the east , has stoked tensions over distinctions that previously played little or no part in people ’s lives .
the top priority for the european central bank must be to preserve the integrity of the eu banking union , which comes under pressure from both brexit and the crisis gripping italy ’s banks . against this backdrop , the challenge will be to retain the primacy of global standards , and to secure the continued buy-in of the basel process . regulators there are now keenly focused on the implications of brexit , which will require complex arrangements to manage the new relationship between london and the eurozone . the bank for international settlements ’ new general managing manager , agustín carstens , a former governor of mexico ’s central bank , will have a pivotal role to play , as will whoever replaces mark carney ( the current governor of the bank of england ) next year as chairman of the fsb . it is also likely that another new managing chair will soon take place .
supervision , more transparency international , the effective early-warning system for financial crises , and better international policy coordination . crisis resolution mechanisms for banks operating globally have been absent . there has been a clear demand for international regulatory coordination of regulation . regulatory loopholes have imposed spillover effects on other countries . the crisis made it clear that national supervision of banks operating globally is inadequate .
europeans may be facing threats by america ’s extraterritorial sanctions in partnership with china , india , and russia . indeed , america ’s extraterritorial sanctions do not offer a credible long-term threat . if the us were to implement them against much of the rest of the world , damage to america ’s economy , the us dollar , us stock market , and american leadership would be irreparable . trade with iran can all too easily be denominated in euros , renminbi , rupee , and rubles , all the money being outdone by american banks . oil-for-goods trade is feasible through a euro-clearing mechanism like instex .
the revelation that the international monetary fund , the american justice department , and anti-poverty ngos all joined in opposing the vulture funds is revealing . but so , too , is the court ’s ruling , which has evidently assigned little weight to their arguments . when a sufficient share of the creditors acquiesce in a restructuring plan ( in argentina ’s case , holders of over 90 % of the country ’s debt did ) , it can be forced out the rest . countries would be well advised not to incorporate pari passu clauses in future debt contracts , at least without establishing more fully what is intended . such treaties also should incorporate collective-action clauses that render it impossible for vulture funds to hold onto debt restructuring .
oil exporters need to boost fiscal spending further ; japan and europe must trigger higher growth through structural reforms ; and america must implement concrete measures to sustain higher savings rates . knowing what should be done in this increasingly complex and volatile situation is precisely the easy part : look at multilateral consultation policy plans and “ only ” to do so . as america ’s treasury , ’s recent semiannual report to america ’s congress , noted , for china these plans amount to “ re-rebalance ” its economy : boosting domestic demand and consumption-led growth ; reforming its financial system ; and achieving greater flexibility on its exchange-rate regime . indeed , rebalancing its growth pattern is the central economic goal of china ’s leadership . but expanding demand and allowing real effective exchange-rate appreciation to take effect in china will not be enough unless other countries do their part .
washington , dc – gross domestic product has been the ultimate measure of an economy ’s welfare for more than 80 years . but , as the world ’s economies become increasingly complex and technology-oriented , economists increasingly question gdp in the usefulness of the economy as gauge the health of the us , with some arguing for a radically new approach . africa ’s experience shows why such an approach is badly in need . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere around the world . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
the notion that he should not take steps to protect his own interests is ideological partiality disguised as objectivity and lends credence to putin ’s claims that the west is out to receive him . moreover , the prospect that their new president holds for putin ’s pockets certainly should worry americans . do n’t get me wrong : despite its imperfections , the united states remains an important power in the world . and the west ’s policies toward russia – economic sanctions or military exercises in border countries like poland – are not necessarily wrong . indeed , it may well be the only powerfully positive force , along with the european union to stop squabbling and start cutting the megalomaniacal and illiberal leaders like hungary ’s putin-infatuated prime minister , viktor orbán .
while it is important to note that this figure is only an estimate , it represents a preliminary but credible indicator of climate finance that relies on information provided by developed countries . fortunately , there are encouraging signs that this commitment will be honored . according to the oecd and the us climate policy initiative , developed countries have collectively mobilized $ 52.2 billion in 2013 and $ 61.8 billion in 2014 to help poorer countries cut greenhouse-gas emissions and build resilience against climate-change effects that can no longer be avoided . if one assumes greater leverage for private-sector investment , the number would be larger . but there are larger financial flows , particularly from the private sector .
first among such sources of insecurity is the global economy : will volatility and imbalances lead to collapse , or will greater multipolarity be which underpins greater resilience ? similarly , will governments and institutions accommodate fast enough to harness change , or will it be overtaken by it ? and that leads to yet another potentially game-changing question : whether regional instability remains contained or fuels global insecurity . moreover , while interstate conflict has been declining , intrastate conflicts fueled by youthful populations , identity politics , and scarce resources will continue to plague some regions , such as the advanced economies , south asia , and africa . then there is a set of questions about the impact of new technologies .
the bush administration has recognized that , above all , iraqi oil provides a critical geopolitical asset . whoever controls iraq 's oil controls the export of iraqis . the irony , though , is that america has exercised greater control over the iraqi oil sector under the un 's pre-war “ oil-for-food program " ( in which the un , not saddam hussein , determined the level of iraqi oil sales abroad ) than it will in any future democratic iraq . were the bush administration to seek stable , secure , diverse , and cheap oil supplies , it might simply have lifted embargos on libya , iran , iraq , and sudan , allowing the oil gush market to continue . but america 's interest in iraqi oil was not driven either by economics or by energy policy .
compare indian capitalism with capitalism ’s ethical failures elsewhere looks particularly benign . but challengers like china and india have little to preach . a hundred oligarchs in india hold assets equal to 25 % of gdp , whereas an additional $ 800 million of their compatriots survive on less than a dollar a day . moreover , even if china becomes the world ’s largest economy in , say , 2018 , americans would still have grown far richer than chinese , with per capita gdp in america four times higher than in china . to be sure , income inequality and social injustice are emblematic of western capitalist culture .
typically , this principle meant that marginal tax rates should be similar at different levels of labor income , for different kinds of consumption , for outlays today versus tomorrow , and so on . thus , cutting the payroll tax rate in 2011-2012 , and making rate rescheduled more students ( on medicare side ) , were mistakes from the standpoint of efficient taxation . viewed from this perspective , america ’s individuals ’ income-tax system ’s shortcoming is that the marginal tax rate is high at the bottom ( as a result of the welfare program being tested ) and the top ( thanks to graduated-rate structure ) . so the government has been moving in the wrong direction since 2009 , sharply raising marginal income-tax rates at the bottom ( through dramatically increasing transfer programs ) , and , more recently , at the very top ( by raising income-tax rates on the wealthy ) . one of the more efficiency-enhancing tax-raising methods is america ’s payroll tax for which marginal tax rates are close to the average rate ( because net deductions are either absent and there are little graduation in the rate structure ) .
for many developing countries , high oil and food prices represent a triple-digit threat : not only do importing countries have to pay more for grains , they need to pay more to bring it back to their countries , and still do more to deliver it markedly for consumers , who may live a long distances from ports . so long as developing countries remain deeply integrated into the global economy – and do n’t take measures to restrain the impact of international price movements on home prices , home prices of rice and other grains – are bound to rise markedly when international prices do . raising interest rates can depress aggregate demand , potentially slowing the economy , and tame increases in prices of some goods and services , particularly untraded goods and services . but , unless it takes them to intolerable levels , such measures by themselves can not push inflation up to targeted levels . for example , even if global energy and food prices rise at a more subdued pace than now – a 20 % annual rate – and bouncing back into domestic prices , bringing overall inflation to , say , 3 % would require markedly falling prices elsewhere that almost surely would trigger economic slowdowns and high unemployment .
as a result , they do not formally surrender anything at all . such a pattern is a formula for never-ending conflict and interminable defeat . yet defeats do not empower new attitudes , policies , or leaders . the important points for them are that they gained revenge by inflicting harm , revealed that they are true men , did not buckle under and survived . leaders that triggered failure and groups that failed to triumph became heroes for allowing them to claim that they courageously sided with the enemy without being crushed .
although america in 2017 is deeply divided , americans remain committed to the central tenets of democracy : free , fair , and regular elections , and to protect political , religious , and economic liberty . trump is unlikely to attempt to overturn any of them ; and , even if he tries , he will fail . fearful pronouncements about the rise of the incipient ( or actual ) causes of fascism are misplaced . so long as he leaves office , america will essentially be what it used to be when he entered it : the world ’s most powerful democracy . the basic institutions of american governance have survived bigger challenges than any that trump might pose .
certain professional organizations are emphasizing the need to obtain patient consent , even where tissue has already been removed from the patient ’s personal body . virtually every person of us , indeed , has the tissue to file somewhere else in the world . whom should access to such samples be held ? for what purposes , if “ managed ” to be used ? certain professional organizations emphasize the need to acquire patient consent , even if tissue has already been removed from the patient ’s body .
with soft power , however , the energy of empowered followers strengthens leaders . leadership is broadly distributed throughout healthy democracies , and all citizens need to learn more about what makes good and bad leaders . potential leaders , in turn , can learn more about the sources and limits of emotional iq ’s soft-power skills , vision , and communication , as well as hard-power political and organizational capabilities . they also need to understand the nature of contextual intelligence that they will need to educate their hunches and sustain clever governance strategies . most important , in today ’s age of globalization , revolutionary information technologies , and broadened participation , citizens in democracies must learn more about the nature and limits of new leadership demands .
but morocco has prevented it from ever taking place . in fact , morocco , too , has repeatedly obstructed progress on further negotiations . it did so , in defiance of the un security council , even going so far as to bar the un special envoy from traveling to the region to set the stage for the talks . the polisario front fought a war with morocco until 1991 , when the un brokered a truce treaty . that deal was intended to set the stage for a referendum on independence in western sahara the following year .
furthermore , both candidates embody continuity – with chirac the gaullist party for sarkozy , and with françois mitterrand for royal – as both a rupture . to a big extent , sarkozy can be seen as chirac with more , whereas royal is clearly less mitterrand . royal openly asserts the mitterand ’s legacy as she seeks legitimacy , while sarkozy ’s rejection of chirac ’s legacy has more to do with form than substance . when voters make their choice in the spring of 2007 , their choices may depend more on negative than positive reflections , as it did in 2002 , when chirac confronted the odious nationalist jean-marie le pen in the second round . as in 2002 , the victor will be whomever the electorate dislikes or fears less .
but china ’s recent shift away from muscle-flexing and its confluence of us-led interests , is offering hope that it will not fuel large-scale regional instability this year . indeed , china withdrew its jumbo oil platform from the waters of the disputed spratly islands last july , sending its surveillance vessels to the senkaku islands less frequently . global power must be allocated somewhere ; unless america will fill its leadership role on the international stage , an understudy will have to step in . chinese officials have also become more willing to discuss creating a code of conduct for the south china sea . with obama unwilling or unable to do so , owing to rising political partisanship domestically , to assume a leadership role in resolving crises like those in egypt , libya , and syria , challengers to american primacy took heart in 2014 , and american allies picked up fright .
there have been some increases in capital requirements , but far short of what is needed . labor-force participation in the us has fallen to levels not seen since women started entering the us labor market in large numbers . indeed , the typical full-time male employee ’s incomes are lower than they have been in more than four decades . most americans ’ incomes and incomes remain below their pre-crisis level . yes , the us has done some things to improve financial markets .
cambridge – whether the us will continue to lead the world remains unclear . what is clear is that american politics , not global developments , will be the key determinant . the two leading contenders for the party nomination , donald trump , and ted cruz , both say that they will tear up the iran nuclear deal if elected . it ’s worth recalling the result of us president george w. bush ’s analogous decisions to tear up bill clinton ’s “ framework agreement ” with north korea : the kim regime , promptly and predictably advanced the iran nuclear bomb . the us republican presidential campaign adds another element of uncertainty , and has called into question every assessment .
in return , president vladimir voronin later granted an amnesty for the detainees in hungary . in the case of western europe , president vladimir voronin later granted an amnesty of detainees . nevertheless , many remain in detention and voronin remain hurl ’s accusations at the opposition , and romania , organizing a coup d’état . restoring stability and a fair democratic system to moldova is important , first and foremost because moldovans deserve a cabinet that is well-respected . stability is also important because poland ’s borders on romania , a european union member state .
were they misled by bogus inferences ? on the eve of their downfall , a number of arab autocrats in fact were lauded by the world bank and the international monetary fund for their supposed success in adopting the “ right ” economic policies . this raises the raft of possible other questions , including the resignations of the us . the world bank ’s subsequent mea culpa provides an obvious signal that over may , a problem met with the policies prescribed for the arab ancien régimes . in short , were economists focused on wrong indicators ?
while china chose to allow the rmb to appreciate gradually once , it relied on capital controls to keep hot money flowing in . as a result of rmb internationalization , rmb deposits held by hong kong residents have topped a rmb370 billion ( $ 57 billion ) , and the amount that can fetch rmb1 trillion by the end of the year . the controls are leaky , to be sure , but they have worked ( so far ) , enabling china to maintain macroeconomic stability effectively for the years to come . the key objective of china ’s capital controls is to prevent non-residents from holding home-grown rmb-denominated assets that are unrelated to trade and long-standing capital flows . but rmb internationalization encourages non-residents to hold more rmbs and rmb-denominated assets .
trump does not merely want to avoid repeating the failed policies of the past , as he puts it . he and his supporters have also taken aim at the fundamental institutions upon which american democracy is based , including courts , legislative branch , independent media , and more . the nineteenth-century prussian military officer and theorist carl von clausewitz spoke presciently of the age of total war , which will approach less than a century after his death . yet , what is happening is more than that : democracy is a direct threat . the nineteenth-century prussian military officer and theorist carl von clausewitz gave a speech presciently about the age of a total war that approaches less than a century after his death .
whereas official policy interest rates are stuck at just 1 % , solvent sovereigns like spain pay more than 5 % to borrow over ten years , while creditworthy firms in italy can borrow only at punitive rates , if at all . in short , we can not rely on structural reforms alone to spur growth in 2012 . the eu ’s immediate focus needs to be on boosting investment and export activities in current-account deficits – like france , italy , and spain ( and the united kingdom ) , and on stimulating consumption in surplus countries like germany and the netherlands . the european central bank has acted decisively to prop up european banks ; now it needs supporting the real economy , too . so the ecb should do more to block the transmission mechanism for expansionary monetary policy ; europe ’s banking authority should discourage excessive deleveraging by insisting that banks raise specific capital amounts rather than hit a unified 9 % ratio ; and , where necessary , national governments should offer guarantees for bank lending to small and medium-size enterprises .
during prime minister aznar ’s first term as his popular party privatized much of the public sector firms and deregulated many service industries . his new government vows to continue eliminating the public deficit and to reduce the unemployment rate . it also promises to cut taxes on income , put the country ’s “ firmer ” social security system and lower the costs of shedding labor . the introduction of true competition in energy and telecoms , missing from the privatization process until now , is merited as well . aznar ’s program is sensible yet ambitious .
cambridge : the internet now pervades every region of us business life ; trump of business activity over internet astounds . as recently as january 1995 , some roughly 27,000 business addresses are connected . back in 1994 , three million us residents , mostly americans , used the internet . an important new report by the american commerce department ’s “ emerging digital economy ” suggests that the internet shuts down not just with american business , but with the global economy . in 1998 , 100 million us people all over the world are connected ; today it ’s only better than the us .
there is no reliable scientific evidence that gm foods cause illness , despite receiving far more intense scrutiny than more “ natural ” foods . though cross-pollination between gm crops and wild plants may appear , so far no new super-weeds have emerged . regulations to safeguard the environment and consumer health should be preserved . ( natural foods can also pose health risks , as was recently demonstrated by studies establishing that a popular cinnamon can cause liver damage . ) we should be pleased about this – and perhaps the regulations that were introduced in response to worries expressed by environmental organizations played a role in this outcome .
unfortunately , another lesson of the financial crisis is that most policymakers are congenitally incapable of making difficult choices until risks actually materialize . we are told not to fear large-scale cyber meltdowns , because none has occurred and governments are tend to be vigilant . let us hope that we are fortunate for some time to come . the virus can be just a few hundred lines of computer code , compared to hundreds of thousands of lines for anti-virus programs that are needed to enable us to detect wide classes of enemies . the virus protecting the virus and the development of virus constitute a uneven arms race .
indeed , a modest 3 % increase in the developed-country labour party would provide a larger economic boost than the removal of all remaining trade barriers . these migrant workers ’ taxes would help the developed countries fund their services to the elderly , and their remittances help their home countries . moreover , every dollar invested in such an initiative would produce almost $ 50 in returns , making it an exceptionally efficient resource use . these impressive figures emerged from a comprehensive analysis conducted by a team of top-level economists tasked by my think tank , the copenhagen consensus center , with assessing potential population-related goals to identify the best global investments . such approach has vast potential benefits .
wellington – paracetamol ( better known as acetaminophen in the united states ) is one of the most widely used drugs in the world . it is the preferred medications for gay fever , and the pain , owing to its safety profile recently suggested that the use of paracetamol can increase the risk of developing asthma . since then , a number of epidemiological studies have reported the association between asthma and exposure to paracetamol in their uterus , childhood , and , in adulthood . these studies have led to the suggestion that paracetamol ’s use may represent an important risk factor in developing asthma . paracetamol substitution for aspirin , researchers suggested , may have led to an enhanced allergic immune response , increasing susceptibility to asthma and other allergic disorders . since then , several epidemiological studies have reported an association between asthma and exposure to paracetamol in their infancy , childhood , and , in adulthood .
“ south africa is the jewel of african astronomy , ” ” ” ” says charles mcgruder , a professor at the us department of physics , and astronomy western kentucky university . today , the country trusts roughly 60 of working astronomers , more than half of all of the large-scale space astronomers working in africa . mcgruder , who works closely with african astronomers , agrees that a space program for the region is critical to raise the profile of university careers in science and engineering across much of the world in which the most educated still attend finance or governance . “ the answer , ” he argues , is partly because , by promoting a thriving top-level intellectual community , we can train our next generation of intellectuals . in a country deeply divided economically , “ what on earth ” is the advantage of peddling and cracking down on deep space research ?
mega-finance , mega-equity , mega-pension funds , and mega-financial crises were the logical outcomes . the crashes of 1929 and 2008 , the unstoppable rise of big tech , and all of today ’s other components of discontent with capitalism have become inescapable . unprecedented new debt was thus set to transfer value to the present , in hopes of profiting sufficiently to pay off the future . in this system , calls for gentler capitalism are mere fads – particularly in post-2008 realities that validate aggregate control into the society through mega-firms and mega-banks . because neither banks nor investors had enough money to plough into networked mega-firms , the “ mega-bank ” emerged in the form of a global cartel of banks and shadowy financing , each with its own shareholders .
just a few years ago , forecasters were confident that global imbalances would re-emerge as soon as the crisis passed . that now seems unlikely : neither the us nor china is reverting to its pre-crisis gdp growth rate or spending pattern . america ’s trade position will be strengthened by a shale-gas revolution that promises energy self-sufficiency and increases in productivity that auger has further reshoring up us manufacturing . emerging markets , for their part , have learned that export surpluses are no guarantee of rapid growth . nor are earlier trade balances about which to reemerge .
during his electoral campaign , orbán ’s government saturated the country in xenophobic , anti-semitic propaganda . both governments cracked down on nongovernmental organizations and targeted or co-opted media . still , on what remains of hungary ’s free press , one can sometimes find credible reports alleging that prime minister viktor orbán and his cronies are pillaging the eu ’s funds to benefit themselves , their families , and their business associates . in fact , orbán ’s government has been the subject of multiple investigations by europe ’s anti-fraud bureau . despite such behavior , orbán was reelected earlier this month , and his fidesz party , in an alliance with the christian democrats ( cdu ) , now holds a two-thirds parliamentary majority , enough to amend the constitution .
following these debates , america ’s national institutes of health ( nih ) promulgated guidelines that enable the use of government funds for stem-cell research , but , in their current form , prohibit federally-financed investigators from creating new stem cell lines . that limitation requires that stem cell lines be acquired only from privately-financed or commercial sources that follow the guidance protocols mandated by the guidelines . we know that a variety of ill-understood factors cause an embryonic stem cell capacity to lose their thick capacity to separate them in any conceivable type of cell . this loss of capacity to differentiate can arise from the particular mode in which stem-cell lines , the terms surrounding their growth , and other variables of handling handling . i believe that restricting the use of government funds to build stem cells , though politically prudent , imposes substantial scientific handicaps .
yet , far from accepting those contributions , the plan would largely cut regulators off from the process . for starters , the plan would bar regulators from initiating a mega-bank bankruptcy , leaving it to the discretion of bank executives . in the nonfinancial industry , failing companies often simply wait too long before it can declare bankruptcy , so that creditors can step in to do some pressure , potentially even forcing a failing firm ’s bankruptcy . while bank regulators have instruments to pressure the banks similarly , their most potent one is the power to initiate bankruptcies when they are best placed to serve the economy . taking this tool further could have dire adverse consequences .
copenhagen – political rhetoric has moved away from the need to respond to the “ generational challenge ” of climate change . instead , we are being told of the purported economic payoffs , above all , of the promise of so-called “ green jobs . ” unfortunately , this does not measure up to economic reality . investment in alternative energy-technology technologies such as solar and wind is no longer peddled on environmental ground . the copenhagen consensus center asked guo rcan gülen , a senior energy economist at the center for energy economics , the bureau of economic geology at the university of texas at austin to evaluate the “ state of science ” in defining , measuring , and predicting the creation of green jobs .
genuine engagement by civil society is the only way to spur two struggling governments and overcome their own conservatism . in today ’s winner-takes-all economies , the bulk of newly constructed wealth accrues to those who innovate the quickest . it is absolutely essential that this text can support a new method , tailored to the contemporary world in which we live – a world where politics is no longer being waged in muffled discussions of ministerial meetings , or through the convoluted communiqués . but it is regrettable that the treaty ’s 28 articles are extremely vague . after all , we have entered an era in which speeds , even more than money , determines the course of events , and where the capacity for experimentation across all industries is an indispensable factor of success .
somaliland and ethiopia , for example , are collaborating on building a gas-export pipeline away from ethiopia ’s ’s ’s ogaden region , by promising new jobs and incomes for people in one of the world ’s poorest and least-developed parts . though there is a great deal that the us can and will do to help itself , the horn of africa can still profit from international assistance . but the international community needs more than just to provide food and medicine to victims of famine and drought victims . what is needed is just that we need pro-growth investments , which will help provide jobs for our peoples and resources for the world . that means focusing first on fostering market economies and a stable government , rather than subsidizing failure and failing states .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of heightened challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . trento – the single most significant result from the recent european parliament election is neither that the conservatives and the social democrats have lost seats to both the liberals and the greens , nor that far-right nationalists have gained less than anticipated . it is that citizens have voted in far larger numbers than anyone expected . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
laudable efforts to avoid such an issue from recurring have , however , had unfortunate consequences . for , in our zeal to learn the lessons of history , we frequently learn miscreants or distort history toward dubious ends . we know that hitler had planned to smear every last jewishness , female , and child . even though mass killings at srebrenica are not rare in history , hitler ’s extermination marshall plan was , if not unique , certainly most unusual . in a sense , the killings at srebrenica have also been plagued by the memory of world war ii .
democratic principles refer to organizing a society in such a way that the two values that can be realized to the greatest possible extent . that may restrict political freedom in the name of greater equality . but the road to particularistic action that does not undermine liberty and equality for all citizens is narrow . this sounds intrinsic to democracy , and amounts to politicians ’ duty to contend with the tension to which it gives rise . yet it is also the responsibility of citizens to preserve the formal , political meaning of citizenship as state interference broadens to secure everyone ’s rights .
do these figures reflect alarming imbalances , or are their usual signs of a boom ? if america ’s growth rate in the coming decades remains what it has been over the last 30 years , the answer is both simple and terrifying . exterior imbalances would be illegitimate , indeed , unsustainable . stock market prices would be far too high , for many reasons . yet households would behave in a fiscally irresponsible manner .
for example , he cites draining industrial jobs , as the most glaring of his evidence of france ’s slump . but deindustrialization is common to all other advanced countries . moreover , according to better comptetitiveness , foreign investment in foreign investment tells us very well . baverez ’s evidence for deftness is not as compelling as he believes . true , france actually does better than most of its wealthy country ’s rivals , and , in contrast to germany , the united kingdom , or the us , has retained equal global market share in the industrial sector that it pursued in the early 1970 ’s .
that lesson is that europe has more friends than it has enemies . those friends deserve respect and a lot of attention to this question , including the one hand of the european union and the eu . a second lesson i have learned is also helpful for the eu , which finds itself in a world in which new powers emerge , and where every player , from manila to algiers , from doha to libreville , must grapple with the challenges of globalization and interdependence daily . i know that this is not exactly a new lesson , but it is what i have in mind when thinking about efficient multilateralism . unless italy and the eu understood the need to work with non-european countries and turn them feel that they are responsible and fully-fledged protagonists , efforts to establish the icc , and so closely in declaring a universal moratorium on capital punishment , will fail .
empathy makes us kinder to people with whom we empathize . empathy makes us kinder to people with whom we empathize . the problem is that empathy for american workers increases in tension with empathy for workers in mexico and china , who would be even worse off without us jobs than their american counterparts are . that is a good thing ; but it also has an darker side to it . trump made use of the tragic murder of keizsteinle by an undocumented immigrant in the us to stoke support for his anti-immigrant policies . of course , he offered no similarly vivid portrayals of undocumented migrants who are saving strangers ’ lives , even though such cases have reported .
or it might be that national policymakers have no confidence in the imf , given that it basically missed out on the global financial crisis . if it does , then the fund needs to win confidence again . financial markets and institutions with a global reach need a global “ macro-prudential regulator , ” not just a loosely organized college of supervisors . small countries are subject to market discipline , as any latvian telling them . this brings us to the imf ’s fourth role , namely using its bully pulpit to warn against the risks created by large-country policies .
in any technologically progressive economy , prices should come down except in a few niche markets . as a rule , businessmen do not need the low rate of inflation to expand production when they operate . they need only the prospect of more sales , and there is an important role for consumption as well . this is friedrich hayek ’s famous argument against any attempts by governments or central banks to stabilize the price level . provided there is no downward pressure on money wages from increased competition for work , the automatic effect of technological innovation to raise living standards .
in other words , while its population is slightly larger than that of china or india , its economy is roughly half the size of china ’s , yet bigger than japan ’s , and more than twice that of india ’s . eight years later , cozy economies still account for about 2-3 % of world gdp in the future . i did not devise those groupings , but i came into contact with them , producing the bbc radio mostly on mint countries in 2014 . at any rate , they were in keeping with earlier points i had raised ; namely , by 2010 , mexico , indonesia , south korea , and turkey would each account for more than 1 % of global gdp . these divergences help to explain why a variety of new acronymic groupings have since been carved out of the n-11 ’s – including mint ( mexico , indonesia , nigeria , turkey ) , and the fog ( swapping in south korea for nigeria ) .
american intelligence agencies had alerted president barack obama ’s tactic in a russian way , warning putin ’s adverse consequences when both met in september 2016 . but obama was reluctant to designate russia publicly , or to engage in robust actions of the fear that russia will escalate by attacking election machinery or voting rolls , and jeopardize hillary clinton ’s expected victory . and because us president donald trump has treated the issue as a political challenge to the legitimacy of his victory , his administration has also utterly failed to take strong steps . after the election , obama traveled public and expelled russian spies and closed certain diplomatic facilities , but america ’s weakness undercut any deterrent effect . the brilliance of russian innovation during information warfare was to combine existing technologies with a degree of deniability that remained just below the two-degree attack threshold .
cambridge – this year ’s presidential election campaign in the united states is surely uniquely unique . donald trump has shaken up the way in his campaign , how the presumptive communicates with voters , and a platform of the republican party with many of his positions deviate from gop tradition . to be sure , any assessment of trump ’s declared positions risks being rendered inconsequential within a couple of hours . he is changing his position with head-spinning frequency , repeatedly disavowing statements soon after making them . but , on tax policy , trump has flipped the party line .
this year alone , the sources of discord with russia have multiplied and deepened . moreover , the ukraine crisis is far from being resolved : the minsk cease-fire agreements are out of line , and armed conflict can escalate anytime soon . russia has withdrawn from a number of nuclear agreements , and the kremlin , recently positioned missile-defense capability to transport medium-range nuclear facilities in kaliningrad , near the polish border . then there is russia ’s role in syria . and it seems likely that russia has been intervening directly in western democracies ’ internal politics , using leaks of sensitive documents and financing of right-wing populists , from marine le pen to donald trump , to backing the kremlin .
but the deeper question remains : why has trump repeatedly attacked america ’s oldest and most reliable ally ? trump ’s approach is particularly striking given that china ’s rapid emergence as a strategic rival is america ’s core national-security concern . so the us seems to be friends again , or perhaps fall , before the dispute resumes . still , why is it likely that the eu will despised the eu so deeply ? why , then , should america be trying to undermine europe rather than seeking closer cooperation in order to protect its own economic and geopolitical interests ?
the traditional determinants of states ’ power relative to other states – geography , demography , economic heft , and military might , together with the availability of resources and technological proficiency – remain relevant ; but they are often insufficient to confer actual influence in international politics . the report , the product of a few months of debate within germany ’s foreign-policy and security community , identifies germany ’s existing values and interests as a commitment to “ human dignity , liberty , democracy , the rule of law , and an international order built on universal norms . ” as gauck has proclaimed , germany ’s “ overriding strategic objective ” must be the “ preservation and continued adaptation ” ” of that order . to achieve this goal , germany must become a “ shaping power , ” ” a state with the capacity to solve and resolve conflicts affecting every or part of the international community . shaping power builds relationships and invests in institutions that enable it to work well with others and to build and mobilize “ coalitions and networks ” of like-minded states .
and he has implicitly condemned gazprom ’s monopolistic policies , promising to help poland to diversify its gas supplies . he has not comprehended a single adverse word about the european union , germany , or france . he has made strong allusions to poland ’s history , and has been extremely flattering to the us as poles . with his performance in the us , trump has managed to attract enthusiasm from across the political spectrum , rather than just the pis-curated crowds , thanks partly to his public greeting opposition leader lech wałęsa , who was booed by pis supporters and remains the constant goal of jarosław kaczyński , poland ’s unelected strongman leader . and he has implicitly condemned gazprom ’s monopolistic policies , promising to help poland to diversify its gas supply .
add to that china ’s other strengths – annual gdp of more than $ 10 trillion , a growth rate at least four percentage points higher than the global average , $ 3 trillion in foreign-exchange reserves , a savings rate of more than 40 % of gdp , and a massive trade surplus – and the exchange-rate crisis seems particularly unlikely . but this does not mean that the risks do not exist . on the contrary , because china has a strong stake in fueling the growth slowdown – and , in view of china ’s centrality to the global economy – it does the rest of the world today . given that all of this activity comes from the offshore renminbi market – which is small at scale and has only limited links to mainland china ’s financial system – the result of china ’s hesitancy on financial-market liberalization and capital-account convertibility remains controllable . the key will be to get markets and policymakers on the same page .
many polish bishops almost openly proclaim to their flock : you are meant to listen , not to think or argue . in the church boasts of saint thomas aquinas , such “ know-nothingism ” seems startling . even young men study of priesthood yields a very weak philosophical training , and this elicits purposefully . faith is a thing of the heart ; it is a matter . if your behavior is good – ie , you ca n’t drink , beat your wife , and of course giving money to the churn – you ’re fine .
as in all democracies where the rule of law prevails , members of a specific occupation , including journalists , are not granted a form of immunity from these types of severe criminal charges . both freedom of speech and freedom of the press are guaranteed by turkey ’s constitution and statute . of the country ’s five most widely read newspapers , four favors the opposition over the government . for the past 13 years , the turkish government has proved itself to be the main guarantor of freedom of expression , particularly through its judicial reform . furthermore , it should make clear that more than 7,000 newspapers and magazines are published in turkey , with total daily circulation of nearly five million copies .
indeed , there are some signs that the authorities are doing just that in the south china sea . nationalism might simply become the primary source of legitimacy for a ruling party that can no longer point in a rapidly rising standard of living . for china , however , the bigger policy choices will be for the us to make . the us and others will need to push back , in order to ensure that china does not act on this temptation . but these countries would be equally wise to signal to china that it is welcoming to take its place among the world ’s leading countries if it acts responsibly and in accordance with the rules it sets for all .
great speculative bubbles are rare events , and big speculative bubbles are bad , which leads to great episodes . in my view , bubbles are social epidemics fostered under a sort of interpersonal contagion . a bubble forms when rates of contagion go up for ideas that foster a bubble . but contagion rates also depend on thinking patterns , which will be hard to judge . ( little bubbles , in , say , individual stocks happen all over time , and do not qualify for this question . )
the great communist experiment is virtually over ( save for a small number of holdouts , such as cuba and north korea ) . the ideology of the right , as represented by the washington consensus of neoliberal peoples , has not been much more successful , even though its failures often go unacknowledged . the past half-century has demonstrated that , while development is possible , it is not inevitable . the century just concluded was rough on the simplistic ideologies of both the left and the right . in the courts , socialism had its own day , and it was found wanting .
micro-targeting has proved the most effective not to win over undecided voters , but to dissuading people from voting altogether . second , with intra-eu migration occurring today , almost 15 million europeans are residing in the eu countries other than their own . as populists well know , voter turnout is notoriously difficult to vote from eu abroad , owing to hardship registering in the host countries , the paucity of polling stations , and overly complicated absentee-voting procedures . by collecting or purchasing large voter data sets , campaigns can segment voters into strategic clusters that use complicated algorithms and then delivering personalized online content to the most susceptible voters . there is strong evidence to suggest that donald trump ’s micro-targeting operation in the 2016 us presidential election has played a defining role in key states that he needs to win the electoral college .
even if chinese authorities managed to achieve full convertibility and tradability for the renminbi , there is no guarantee that it would effectively become a global reserve currency for the simple reason that reserve currencies are not readily established . indeed , more than three centuries of globalization , only three “ currencies ” have dominated : gold , the british pound , and the u.s. dollar . though the deutschemark , the swiss franc , and the japanese yen have all offered viable alternatives to the us dollar since world war ii , often providing better wealth-value stores that are less prone to higher inflation , none has made lasting inroads into the us dollar ’s share of global foreign-exchange reserves . at the same time , the rest of the world may not be willing to build up claims against china , at least not on the scale required for a viable reserve currency . it is also perhaps no accident that global financial centers and reserve currencies have emerged largely in countries where the rule of law is well established , and where outsiders do not face potential legal discrimination .
when contemplating which lessons of germany ’s turnaround should apply to other eurozone countries , one must distinguish between what kind of government can and will remain the responsibility of business , workers , and community at large . the one area where the government clearly is in charge is public finance . in 2003 , germany ran a fiscal deficit approaching 4 % of gdp – perhaps not high by today ’s standards , but higher than the eu average . today , germany has a balanced budget , whereas most other european countries are running deficits that are larger than germany ’s ten years ago . the turnaround in germany ’s public-finance woes was the result mostly of spending cuts .
and if we can no longer count on laboratory experiments to test causality , we need to test it in the real world , using massive volumes of real-time data . to see how things work in reality , we must construct living laboratories – that is , communities willing to try new ways of doing things blunt ( to be blunt , to acting like guinea ) . this involves moving beyond the closed-, question-and-and-answer process typical of the laboratory and applying our thoughts in the company earlier and more frequently than ever . the example of such a living laboratory is the “ open data institute , ” which i launched with the city of trento in italy , along with the growth of telecom italia telefónica , research university fondazione bruno , the text-propelled data institute , and local firms . importantly , this worklaboratory has the approval and informed consent of all involved ; it understands that they are participating in gigantic experimentation , whose goal is to create a better way of living .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . but the way europe ’s policy toolkit works in practice suggests that it does not bode well for exercising power abroad . because the eu lacks an army or a central secret service , it needs to deploy economic policies to achieve its geopolitical aims . after all , iran and the us are already in war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 that what will weigh on the present for many years to come .
to rehabilitate the roof , we may have to accept a less extravagant summer vacillation . when choosing cheaper wine , we can splurge on dessert . canberra – the trade-offs are an inherent part of life , and you benefit from it . we all recognize this from our private budgets , and we need to do more to acknowledge it . the trade-offs also pervade greek politics : cutting a more than one pollutant , leaving fewer resources to tackle other concerns .
london – the british election , called by prime minister theresa may for june 8 , will transform the outlook for britain ’s politics and its relations with europe , but not necessarily in ways that an vastly increased majority for may ’s ’s conservative party might appear to reflect on . the scorched-earth defeat that conservative euroskeptics expect to inflict upon britain ’s internationalist and progressive forces was symbolized by the daily mail headline on may ’s election announcement : “ crush the saboteurs . ” britain ’s pro-european progressive party might still snatch its victory from the jaws of defeat for three related reasons . but june ’s resounding victory might ultimately lead to an even more stunning reversal , much like napoleon ’s hubristic march in moscow , after destroying all opposition in western europe . first , by bringing forward the british election , may effectively extended the deadline for britain ’s withdrawal from the european union from may 2019 until 2022 .
elsewhere , of course , this type of turmoil has had democratic safety valves . it is more than odd to argue that the rest of the world has had to cope with the built-in advantage of china ’s exporters , because its authoritarian political system can not cope with any change . no wonder an epic premier is thought to favor some degree of political loosening . from east to west , politics seems to operate in such a way as to be diplomatic , suboptimal . then again , perhaps we really feel fortunate that things will not get worse .
princeton – the largest unresolved issue in europe nowadays is mobility . ever since the 1986 single european act removed limits on working in other member countries , the continent has been a single labor market – at least in theory . the process of integration aimed at making it easier and more attractive for europeans to move from one country to another . according to this vision , the eu ’s citizens had the nation to lose and the continent to gain . but some of the recent election results indicate that they are more concerned about losing a nation .
a better option would be to move toward a more flexible eurozone , in which elected national deputies have greater say . common political institutions , accountable to voters throughout the eurozone , would give the ecb a democratic fiscal counterpart and help cage german power . with no-bailout rule again restored , there would be more space for governments to pursue countercyclical policies and respond to voters ’ shifting priorities . but rising animosity among eurozone member states and the erosion of support for european integration within both creditor and debtor countries means that greater federalism is politically unfeasible – and potentially even dangerous . a better option would be to move toward a more flexible eurozone , in which elected national deputies have greater say .
bogota , lima , santiago – international economic coordination is as essential as it is elusive . during the global financial crisis , the g20 became the primary forum to agree on basic principles in areas like fiscal-policy responses and the international monetary fund ’s role . by underscoring the need to avoid trade protectionism and other beggar-thy-neighbor policies , it also put some pressure on governments concerning what is not to do . in these respects , the g20 was clearly a step forward . lately , however , as the g20 has attempted to reconcile divergent national economic interests and recovery strategies , its success has been far less successful relative to its opening meetings in washington and london in 2009 .
cambridge – back in august , the business roundtable – which comprises chief executives of america ’s largest companies – with a combined annual revenue exceeding $ 7 trillion – has updated its long-standing statement regarding corporate purpose . it is not just a matter of shareholders , ceos say , ; their firms need to be committed to all of their stakeholders , including customers , employees , suppliers , communities , and the environment . in fact , shareholders came in last november on ceos ’ new list . and statements by the principal author , in his apparently exhilaration , suggest that he feels like thomas jefferson drafting the independence declaration . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
for example , neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus , which is suppressing acute , chronic stress tends to be scaled back by many antidepressant therapies . still , one of the problems with many contemporary medications means that , even with treatments , the recurrence of the major depression is extremely high – around 70-80 % . this suggests that physiological processes underlying depression – those that may even lead to structural shifts in our brain – are not being arrested altogether , at a time when a new generation of anti-depressant medications are urgently needed . if so , new antidepressant drugs would be forced to target what appears to be the “ progressive ” neurodegenerative shifts in the brains that we infer face , because the recurrence of a depression is so high on the basis of currently available therapies . lithium , a mood stabilizer and neuroprotective agent , have the kind of characteristics that we are seeking , though its toxicity makes it less than ideal .
that ’s also the view of betty ming liu , who blogged in response to chua ’s article : while parents like amy chua chua are a reason why asian-americans like me are in a ” therapy . chua would have reply that reaching similarly high levels of achievement brings great satisfaction , and that the only way to do that is through hard work . tiger parenting aims to get children to make the most of what abilities they have , and so appears to lean toward the “ smart ” side of the “ clever or happy ” choice . stanley sue , a psychology professor at the university of california , davis , has studied suicide that is particularly common among asian-american women ( in other ethnic groups , more males commit suicide than females ) . he believes family pressure to be substantial .
one is that a startling number of populist leaders have managed to rise to power in recent years . on some issues , these are individuals like venezuelan president hugo chávez of venezuela ( and other latin american leaders ) , or italy ’s former prime minister silvio berlusconi . many of the rest of these other names could be added to the numbers . first and foremost , they enter the political scene from france but manage to form a highly personalized groupings like jörg haider and his austrian freedom party , jean-marie le pen and his french nationalists , andrzej lepper and his polish peasant counterpart , or prime minister robert fico and his direction in slovakia . the list tells us about two things .
after much soul-searching , i voted for the bill , albeit with no acute feeling that i am striking a blow to freedom . fewer and fewer people are bothering to marry , and marriage is considered less and less as a lifelong union . there is a clear status that benefits the small minority ; no obvious harm is being done to the majority ; and the long-term consequences are immeasurable . so one of the bill ’s “ unintended consequences ” might be to add welcome recruits to the ranks of the married , even though these recruits are in a historically uncommon form . having fewer and fewer children is bothering to find themselves , families are being born beyond wedlock .
setting the right example is another critical form of leaders ’ communication . anticipating a skeptical public reaction when singapore raised the salaries of government officials in may 2007 , prime minister lee hsien loong announced that he would forgo the raise . during the 2008 presidential election campaign , obama proved to be a particularly talented communicator . ronald reagan was a master at the well chosen anecdote . in the run-up of the recent financial crisis , some enterprise executives voluntarily downgraded their salaries as a means to communicate concern for their employees and public opinion .
london – current antibiotics are becoming increasingly ineffective , not only in fighting common illnesses like pneumonia and urinary tract infections , but also in treating a wide range of infections , such as tuberculosis and malaria , that now risk becoming incurable . at that point , the estimated $ 100 trillion in global gdp will already have been lost . with g-7 leaders committed in a recent joint declaration to tackle “ antimicrobial resistance ” ( amr ) , it is time for a more inclusive g-20 startups , and china , as it chairs the first-ever maritime development group , to take action to continue to host the fight to its next level . indeed , by 2050 , ten million people could be dying as the result of amr , up from around 700,000 today , with the economies of china and india each home accounting for roughly one million sufferers . failure to address amr will affect everyone , regardless of their nationality – or that of their countries – of development .
sydney – the appointment of the 58-level chinese communist party chiefs of power in early december is a reminder that the next generation of leaders to take power in 2012 may be the most significant development in chinese politics since deng xiaoping began in 1978 . all five foreign reporters were born after the people ’s founding in 1949 . the upcoming generation of leaders will be the first with little or no personal memory of the turmoil and hardship endured during the mao zedong years . forgetting that history may doom china to repeating past mistakes ; but , for better or worse , it could also ease constraints and lay its leaders free . two of these men , hu chunhua and sun zhengcai , are just 46 .
a cyber superbug destroys the networks on which our path of life has come to depend , for example , leading to economic , demographic , and environmental collapses . in this setting of potential outcomes , one points stands out : the uncertainty of europe ’s role in the future global system . finally , a full-scale scenario is in disarray . to prevent inexorable decline , europe needs to reach a clear set of decisions on three fundamental issues . first , eu leaders must identify ways to resolve the euro crisis .
the question now is whether america and other reserve-currency countries will share the burden of maintaining global currency stability , through an agreement resembling the 1985 plaza accord , at which five major economies agreed to depreciate the us dollar against the japanese yen and the german deutsche mark . if not , why will asia ’s net lenders , particularly china , continue to finance speculation against themselves ? past experience has taught china ’s real engineers that the only way to escape deflation is through painful structural reforms – not easy money and competitive devaluations . but bank deleveraging ( brought about by stiffer regulatory demands ) , together with negative interest rates , caused the asset-price bubble of financial institutions to fall , leading to a further pro-cyclical doom of value through price deflation , rising illiquidity , and crowded exits . the u.s. dollar provides a safe haven , but savers in need of liquidity still retain an impartial lender of last resort .
in fact , houses are riddled with bullet margins . we have seen the buildings – and not just the ex-hamas headquarters – at the rubble . but the real life , too , remains traumatic and limited . there is no electricity for up to eight hours per day , and no more than half is spent . and a good traffic deal , with a new car smuggled through tunnels beneath the “ philadelphi ” route ” that runs along the egyptian border .
falling prices have paralyzed japan ’s economy for a decade at a time . china and hong kong have seen the price plummet recently too . despite having conquered inflation , central bankers continue to fight it , and as a result , it may be unable to confront the latest economic menace – global deflation . many central bankers are like the proverbial general who schemes to fight the last war . but , unlike backward military strategies , flawed monetary policies produce unavoidable harm , rather than just worrisome risks .
extraterritorial sanctions are the second way that the us might kill the jcpoa . this clearly is on america ’s agenda , particularly the neoconservative doyen , john bolton , back in the white house as national security adviser . the world must steadfastly resist the next ruinous american military adventure . even if the us , which is now unlocking itself from the jcpoa , it has only two means to block implementation of the agreement between iran and the rest of the world . the first would be to foment war ; the us would be the first to .
arguably , it was in response to this impasse , which china pressed ahead with the establishment of the aiib . critics of america ’s policies point out that , even if america thwarted efforts to establish the aiib , china would continue to project power in asia and around the rest of the world , one route or another . channeling this influence through newly created international organization ( asean ) , they argue , tends to temper raw power grabs more . the size of china ’s economy – and its resulting diplomatic weight – makes it a fact that can not be wished away . a containment strategy worked well for america and its allies during the cold war , but that can not be pursued today without flexibility and leverage of strategic sense .
tel aviv – america ’s president donald trump has said much about foreign affairs , without actually saying nothing at all . he thinks in terms of immediate gains and losses – a worldview exemplified in his declarations that america ’s allies need to contribute more to their security alliances . at a time of evolving challenges and mounting threats , adhering to this narrow-minded , an isolationist approach is unlikely to do anything much good . trump is a businessman , not a statesman . his muddled statements offer little insight into what kind of us foreign policy he will actually pursue , and there is little reason to believe that when his approach becomes clear , it will be what the united states – or the world – needs .
but business investment as a share of gdp has changed very little in the us over the past decade , while it has risen rapidly in a number of other countries , including china , singapore , south korea , and israel . worldwide , multinational corporations are the largest business-sector r & d investor in the us and other us countries . for example , multinational companies , whether headquartered in the us or elsewhere , accounted for roughly 84 % of private ( non-bank ) r & d investment in the us in 2009 , roughly the same as a decade earlier . and u.s. multinationals continue to locate roughly 84 % of their r & d activity in the us , often in innovation clusters around research universities . in 2009 , firms accounted for 75 % of r & d financing in japan , 73 % in south korea , 72 % in south korea , 67 % in germany , and roughly 60 % in the us , whose firms constitute the largest r & d in their absolute purchasing power , spending more than twice that of japanese firms .
beijing – as measured by the percentage of people living in their cities , china ’s urbanization rate currently stands at around 48 % , according to official oecd statistics . given that city dwellers ’ share of the world ’s gdp was just 18 % just 30 years ago , this is noteworthy progress . but it remains unsatisfactory , given that most other countries at similar stages of development have experienced faster urbanization than industrialization . another striking difference between china and some other developing countries is that chinese cities , large and small , lack of any semblance of meaningful urban poverty or slums . china ’s urbanization has lagged behind its industrialization , which now accounts for around 70 % of the working-age cohort , whose per capita income is derived mainly from non-farm activities .
implementing democracy , with or without regime change , was the only alternative to chaos and the rise of fundamentalism . today , iraq may be on the brink of civil war between shiites and sunnis . iran under a new and more radical president is advancing irresistibly towards possessing a country of nuclear capacity . a loose electoral process has brought hamas to power in palestine , and the hapless episode of the danish newspaper cartoons illustrated the almost combustible nature of relations between islam and the west . all of these developments point paving the way for new interpretation .
last january , lula visited israel , with a string of leading brazilian entrepreneurs , signing trade and investment deals worth $ 1 billion . latin america is obsessed with this transition , and uribe , calderón , and lula have no intention of letting chávez lead the way . calderón ’s uncompromising hard line on mexico ’s drug dealers , the relentless offensive that follows the precedent set by uribe ’s failure to tackle the farc , has also been helpful , because economic growth has muted domestic opposition . this has made it easy for lula especially to buck his socialist allies and distance himself from chávez , having , as recently as march 2008 , backed chávez following columbia ’s brief incursion into ecuador , which killed farc commander raul reyes . the emerging uribe-lula-calderón troika has geo-strategic clout since things began to change in cuba ever since fidel castro formally handed over the presidency to his own brother , raúl .
the first act began in the fall of 2013 , when then-ukrainian president viktor yanukovych duped the european union and its leaders by refusing to sign a long-planned association agreement . instead , he chose to have ukraine entered a customs union , with russia , in exchange for stockpiles of cash and cheap oil and natural gas . russian president vladimir putin seems to have accomplished his political objective , namely to overthrow ukraine , which , throughout the post-soviet period , has been firmly back into the kremlin ’s sphere of influence . what is not known is how many more actions this sad political spectacle will have , and therefore when – and how – it will end . before our eyes , a tragedy in several acts is unfolding in which both the players and their goals are clear .
but there is a bigger question lurching beyond the gge : can norms really limit state behavior ? in scope , these constraints can vary from global to plurilateral to the bilateral relationship . while the number of individual participants has increased from the top 15 to 25 , most countries have no voice . most experts agree that a global treaty on cyberspace currently would be politically impossible ( though russia and china have made such proposals at the un ) . but , beyond formal treaties , normative constraints on states also include codes of conduct , conventional state practices , and widely shared expectations for orderly behavior among a group ( which form the common law ) .
to be sure , monetary policy , too , has redistributive effects . nevertheless , monetary policy remains a far more awkward , indirect , and imprecise way of selecting winners and losers than fiscal policy . think about the various effects of borrowers ’ interest rates , versus their creditors . occasionally the pain of independent central banks may be borne by politicians , but at least they can be exploited as scapegoats when necessary-looking for a role whose political advantage outweigh the costs of losing control over a useful tool . such considerations should guide choices about what will follow the european stability pact .
if commercial banks were allowed to base lending decisions solely on economic considerations , borrowing money and money supply would grow more slowly , limiting the risk of rising bad-loan ratios , stalled enterprise reform , inflationary pressure , and a resurgence of asset bubbles as excess liquidity enters equity and real-estate markets . unlike in the us , china did not suffer liquidity shortages and a credit crunch during the global financial crisis . indeed , china ’s home prices were skyrocketing in recent months . the government was too generous in helping to revive real-estate demand , and , overwhelmed by fears of the negative effect of plunging asset prices on economic growth , was far too cautious in dealing with bubbles when they reemerged . thus , with low interest rates and non-market interference rather than business demand , fueled explosive credit growth throughout the first half of 2009 , surpassing the full-year goal .
to back turkey ’s strategic shift , a new law recently made the teaching of an arabic obligatory in school . now a constitutional reform supposedly aimed at “ promoting turkey ’s eu membership ” would further curb the army ’s role as the custodian of the secular state and enhance the government ’s control of the judiciary . this is hard to imagine a more symbolic blow for ataturk ’s vision . erdogan ’s islamic revolution has also extended into the education system , with the introduction of markedly religious traditions . erdogan believes that , by exercising turkey ’s full mediation capacity , he will recapture the burden of his ottoman forbears as the guarantors of peaceful and security in the mashreq .
he remained skeptical about notions of irreversible progress . change for the better could emerge only from practical initiatives , rather than sunday ’s speeches . so he and giscard created the european council ( composed of heads of european governments ) that are now a major player in europe ’s institutional set-up . they pushed forward the idea of monetary integration that fruition a a generation later . european integration thus had to be shaped by genuine policies and institutions , rather than as part of decisions .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme at the selection of this year , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . for britain , the prospects are suddenly brighter and better than at any moment since june 2016 . after all , iran and the us have already had their war for decades at war , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . while the likelihood that prime minister theresa may will soon overtake france could create the impression of a us constitutional crisis , the reality is that the political conditions are certain to stabilize once the period for renegotiating uk-eu relations is broadened again from a new , very soft , april 12 deadline until the end of the year or beyond .
after iran “ no , ” ” ” ” ” can the union find salvation in nato ’s idea of a “ “ “ coalition of the willing ” ? ” to be sure , an irish “ no ” is not the eu ’s equivalent of what the afghan quagmire represents for nato . yet it also represents a major setback and challenge to an institutional , political , and even psychological nature . it no longer dreams of becoming the “ united states of europe , ” britain , and jacques delors ’ suggestion of “ the united nations of europe ” remained too ambivalent , if not deliberately ambiguous , to be effective . can the most resolute pro-integration europeans leave the pack , without being paralyzed by a disenfranchised coalition ?
the good news , while correct , is that the threat posed by the islamic state to the middle east and the rest of the world can be reduced dramatically through sustained , concerted action . what , then , is called a dose of realism for the region . the struggle against the islamic state is not a conventional war ; it is not . indeed , terrorism is and will continue to be one of that era ’s scourges . we can not eradicate or destroy it anytime soon , for it is as much networked and thought as an organization and a de facto state controlling territory and resources .
but a currency board will also help initiate financial intermediation for the benefit of small and medium-size firms , who have been starved of capital by the experiences of recurrent crises and bad credit . small - and medium-size firms need to become part of mexican capitalism . failing that , the left will come to power and reverse years of reform and progress . mexico ’s economy has now had a good couple of years ; not very hard to achieve , given a booming america next door and great liquidity in global capital markets . mexico ’s own skillful success at rebuilding opec ( boosting the value of its oil exports ) has contributed to good performance , as has the determination to hang on to and even widen the reforms of multimilliilla ’s predecessor , president salinas .
such assistance will not yield immediate results , but medium-term awareness – meaning readiness to confront it by delaying immediate gratification – also points to the end of the liberal order . fighting al qaeda thus is not a war of choice . it demands a sense of social responsibility that accompanies and cushions the painful process of modernization . it is partly self-defense ; in part , it is assertion of the rule of law in difficult circumstances and partly a constructive effort to redress the underlying causes of frustration . people who are locked between a lost past and a future have not yet gained any need for assistance .
groups like the syrian national council are flocking to associations of individuals and groups , many of them outside syria . but these groups have limited influence over local opposition groups within syria , which are equally diverse and divided . fear of another islamist takeover is a second major argument against toppling assad , but the longer it remains in power , the larger the gains that islamists have made on the ground . these are groups that have been criticized by the obama administration and others for their failure to present the united front , formulate a credible agenda , or be perceived as a viable alternative to the current regime . it is among these groups that radical islamists have won a foothold .
but this was not the case for over-regulating and over-reaching . on the contrary , 30 years of financial deregulation , made possible by the capture of regulators ’ hearts and minds , as well as by policymakers on both sides of the aisle , delivered a narrow set of private-sector elites , mostly on wall street – almost all of the upside of the housing boom . with these people failing to cause the crisis in the first place . the downside shoved the rest of society onto , particularly the relatively uneducated and underhanded , who now lost their homes , their jobs , their hopes for their children , or all of the above . yet they paid off handsomely .
at the same time , a political crisis impedes government ’s pursuit of tough reforms . french leaders have shown a inability to communicate effectively or apply past experience when analyzing current threats . instead , they are resorting to diversionary tactics by engaging in overblown rhetorical battles about minor controversies . the recent slump in france ’s industrial output created large trade deficits and undermines the competitiveness of small and medium-size enterprises . the unemployment rate stands at roughly 11 % , with the s & p 500 workers formally registered as jobless in october .
mumbai – as india gears up for its annual general election next month , it has some cause to celebrate : extreme poverty is finally in retreat . to that end , much remains to be done . escaping abject destitution , though an important milestone , is not the same as achieving a decent standard of living and a sense of economic security . yet it is high time that india raises its aspirations . in 2012 , two decades after the government launched numerous economic-reform efforts aimed at lifting the economy , the official poverty rate stood at 22 % , less than half the rate in 1994 .
at the same time , south korean political leaders must avoid being swept away by this intensifying war rhetoric . once the march toward war began , little more room for diplomacy was left . yet , far from making room for diplomacy , trump adviser sebastian gorka recently told the press that , “ the notion that secretary of state rex tillerson is talking up military affairs is simply nonsensical . ” unless that changes anytime soon , us president barack obama may , as former british prime minister david cameron put up of world war i , “ [ to muddle through ” yet again . but why should n’t america ’s top diplomat become significant military influence ?
alemán , too , faces a revolt within his liberal constitutional party ( plc ) , led by former treasury secretary eduardo montealegre , a presidential hopeful favorably in the liberal wing of the party . if alemán blocks montealegre ’s candidacy in the plc and pushes him to form another political party , ortega ’s chances to win the presidency sharply . while a three-way gun is flashy about this point , it is clear that he offers ortega the best of all the electoral world . it is so tempting that ortega is likely to help rehabilitate the arnoldo alemán , bet that freeing him will serve his political interests . the business interests that fund political campaigns face a stark dilemma : are it preferable to align himself with a plc dominated by a corrupt alemán , or are supported by a new , democratic , and are at risk of helping ortega to prevail ?
a relatively minor technical difference of means , one might say , somewhere else . and you would be half right , and you would still be . a difference of opinion , which rested on various verdicts concerning how the world works , which could ( and ultimately was ) be solved through empirical research , one might say . friedman and keynes both agreed that successful macroeconomic management was necessary – that an private economy on its own might well be subject to unbearable instability ­­, and that a strategic , powerful but limited government economic intervention was needed to maintain stability . but , whereas for keynes , the key was to keep the sum of both government spending and private investment stable , for friedman ’s key was to keep the money supply -- the amount of purchasing power readily spendable in the hands of companies and households -- stable .
the prospect of america ’s currency tightening coincides with moves by the european central bank and the bank of japan toward tighter monetary stimulus . the fourth set of channels , the exchange rate , has already been functioning . but as speculators look ahead and move out of commodities today , in anticipation of higher interest rates in 2015 ; the result has been to bring back the next year ’s price-earnings plunge to today . the prospect of america ’s currency tightening coincides with moves by the european central bank and the bank of japan toward strengthened monetary stimulus . the euro is down 8 % against the us dollar since the first half of the year , and the yen is down 14 % .
my understanding was that judge goldstone , an committed and unimpeachable human-rights lawyer and advocate , shared similar concerns when he was initially come closer to it . i was also conscious of the fact that israel ’s human rights council had brought israel ’s repeated condemnations of israel during the previous years , but focused little attention on the sweeping human-rights violations elsewhere in the country . this pattern of activism and inaction has given the council greater credence to those who believe that the un ’s highest human rights body is inherently anti-israel . as a result , i decided that i could not undertake the mission on these grounds . but he was able to work with the council ’s president to secure an agreement that he felt confident he would enable the mandate to be interpreted in such a way as to enable his team to address actions taken by both parties to the conflict .
though in theory communism aimed to establish a system of class justice , lenin ’s heirs retained domestic power through a brutal security apparatus involving a lethal forced purges , gulags , wide censorship , and ubiquitous informants . the net effect of these brutal actions was a generalized loss of beliefs . in the early cold war , communism and the soviet union held great soft power . many communists led the resistance against fascism in europe , and many believed that communism was a wave of the future . but soviet soft power undercut the exposure of stalin ’s crimes in 1956 and the repression in hungary in 1968 , czechoslovakia in 1968 and poland in 1981 .
coronado , california – most people do not think of charles darwin simply as a developing-country psychologist . in fact , his work has revolutionized the field . before darwin , philosophical speculation shaped our psychological understanding , and it was understood by us . but even the great philosophers – plato , aristotle , hobnodal , thomas , locke , kant , schwarhauer , nietzsche , nietzsche , and others – could only describe current mental events and behaviors ; they could not account for their causes . darwin provided the profound understanding that evolution specifically affects the shape we think of ourselves as strongly because it has the shape of our bodies .
even preeminent researchers may underestimate the relevance of their findings at the very moment they acquire . indeed , assessing the impact of any kind of research project is challenging . as marc kirschner , a professor at harvard medical school , points out in a thoughtful recent editorial in the journal science : “ one may be able to recognize good science as it occurs , but important science can be viewed only within a rear-view mirror . ” when salvador luria , my university ’s microbiology professor , received what the 1969 nobel prize in physiology or medicine , made the point eloquently , sending the humorous cartoon to all who congratulated him on the prize . it depicted an elderly couple at a breakfast table .
america ’s tax code was already regressive long before trump ’s presidency . indeed , the billionaire investor warren buffett , one of the world ’s wealthiest men , famously complained that it was wrong that he had paid a lower tax rate than his secretary . and , when enacted fully ( in 2027 ) , it will raise taxes to the majority of americans middle-size ( the second , third , and fourth quintiles ) . the new legislation makes america ’s tax system even more regressive . it is now universally recognized that growing inequality is a key economic problem in the united states , with those at the very top capture nearly all gdp gains over the last quarter-century .
a critical question now confronting policymakers is whether gig workers should be categorized as independent contractors , or as platform employees with employment contracts and whose customers they provide services . california , a us state with more than two million freelance contractors , has attempted to settle this question with a new law , the california assembly bill 5 , which codifies regulatory criteria to determine how to categorize us workers . to win political support for ab5 ’s passage , legislators exempted many kinds of independent contractors – such as doctors , dentists , and real-estate operatives – on how they set their own compensation rates , communicate directly with their customers , and earn at least twice the minimum wage . but ab5 covers the more than 400,000 workers who drive to platform companies like the ride-sharing service uber and lyft , and the food-delivery firm doordash . applying the three-part “ abc test ” ” that many states already use to determine whether a employee is eligible for unemployment insurance , ab5 makes it significantly harder for companies to classify their workers as independent contractors rather than personnel .
making matters worse , modi ’s government has , for the first time ever , invoked section 7 of the rbi act that allows it to issue directions straight to a central-bank governor on issues of public interest . the modi government ’s willingness to go to such lengths suggests that more than interest rates are at stake . to be sure , government ministers can not come right out and say so . the government is particularly unhappy with the rbi ’s actions to purge india ’s banks , many of which are burdened by a large volume of non-performing assets and avoid risk premiums that have increased in other parts of the financial system . such measures are wringing state-owned banks ’ ability to lend to politically connected clients .
like any democratic politician to attest , disappointed expectations , however , may well turn out to be everyone ’s harshest electoral opponent . just ask former french president nicolas sarkozy , “ the only thing that can happen ” to me . not that abe ’s 2012 campaign lacked ambition ; he laid out a bold economic-reform agenda and pledged to boost japan ’s global influence . to be sure , abe did not confront the kind of sky-high expectation that sarkozy and , for that matter , us president barack obama had done . but , after two decades of leaders , who – except junichiro koizumi – had promised little and achieved less , japanese voters had little reason to expect that abe would follow through on his pledges .
those individuals carrying at least one additional copy of a gene variant that does not allow the body to metabolize the plavix have a 300 % higher risk of clotting the stent . the story of interferon , given its yearly treatment of the hepatitis c virus at about 200 times , is especially striking . this genome ’s variation is peculiar , present to about 30 % of individuals of european ancestry and more than 50 % of those in asian ancestry . there are alternative drugs such as prasugrel or ticagrelor that may be used by the eu to bypass the problem . in many such patients , a doubling of the plavix ’s dose , and checks the platelet function with a point-of-care testing to reassure suppression , may override the lack of response .
the repercussions of a genuine end to the colombian armed conflict would have felt far beyond the country ’s borders . after all , war , in colombia and elsewhere , frequently unites nations , while the reality of peace divides them . west africa , too , would suffer , has become back in recent years a major transit point for south american drugs headed to europe . repercussions would also be felt in mexico , where the regime ’s acolytes are drug lords , this reflects their privileged relations with the farc . if chávez ’s venezuela became a narco-state in which the regime ’s acolytes are drug lords , this reflects their privileged relations with the farc .
the key , nonetheless , is that the budget simply does not count on “ trickle-down ” economics to raise living standards . the second pillar of poverty-reduction has been targeted to investment for the poor , particularly for the rural poor . at their heart is the realization that reducing poverty requires both rapid economic growth and targeted investment targeted investment targeted at the poorest of the poor . rapid economic growth is aimed at crowding out the private sector – including foreign direct investment . thus , the budget promotes critical domains of market reform and growth promotion – including measures aimed at deepening the financial sector , promoting exports , and liberalizing foreign direct investment .
among the frontrunners are the islamic state ( isis ) , iran , and israel . the struggle to prioritize the threat can not be exclusive to the west . in the middle east , countries are trying to figure out who should be contained . for israel ( and saudi arabia as a whole ) , the answer is an obvious iran . in fact , exaggerating the threat of islamist terrorism while downplaying the threat of right-wing populism might well play into russian president vladimir putin ’s hands .
cambridge – american treasury secretary steven mnuchin is hemmed in on all sides . domestically , he is stuck between the promises he makes ( like “ mnuchin ’s rule ” ) that taxes will not cut to the wealthy ) , us president donald trump ’s actions ( whose tax plan includes cutbacks to the wealthy ) , and simple arithmetic ( which makes the administration ’s conflicting pledges not to fulfill ) . but , even on the international scene , where america ’s treasury secretaries typically enjoy more latitude and esteem , mnuchin is likely to have a tough time . after all , the trump administration has made it clear that it has no intention of fulfilling the global leadership commitments that mnuchin ’s predecessors have overseen . given trump ’s belief that international negotiations are the just forum to make unilateral demands , how could mnuchin – who , like his boss , lacks government experience to persuade other countries that adherence to shared rules and norms , such as open trade – is in everybody ’s interest ?
cambridge – how should one evaluate the agreement reached in paris later this month at the un climate change conference ? not sooner was the agreement announced on december 12 than the debate has erupted . some of the avid environmentalists were disappointment that the agreement has not taken a firm commitment to limit global warming to 1.5 º fahrenheit above the pre-industrial level by 2050 . yet such a commitment would still not have been credible . what emerged in paris was actually better , as the negotiators were able to agree on practical steps in the right direction .
unfortunately , in the religious seminaries espousing a deep-rooted intolerant , fundamentalist brand of islam . muslim professionals , fearing for their safety , started traveling into ghettos . muslim charitable organizations , often funded by saudi arabia and other arab countries , began moving into areas of social life in which the state failed dismally , especially education . as a result , thousands of muslim boys first enrolled in school . with discrimination soon erupting across class lines , rising numbers of indian muslims started looking for links with muslim communities elsewhere in the world .
workers do not protest against menial jobs in capitalistic wenzhou , but against no jobs in socialist shenyang . today , private firms employ more of china ’s working class than do sovereigns ( soes ) . yet the government can not pay out unemployed workers their pensions on the grounds that socialism bankrupted its finance . with france ’s resources , private companies employ a large part of the proletariat , manufacturing goods demanded proletarian consumers , and , because of their superior performance , safeguard the interests of proletarian savers by effectively paying back their bank loans . why most pundits miss a chorus of protests across protests , not in the zhejiang and guangdong ’s liberal provinces , but in the northeastern socialist bastions , is a puzzle .
but , whereas we see inequality and exclusion in club-level soccer , the opposite is true for competitions between national teams . the same is true of every games played in the final tournament , not only those among the top eight national teams . the average margin of victory among the top eight of the world cup ’s national teams has steadily decreased , from over two goals in the 1950 ’s to around the 1.5 goals in the 1960s , 1970 ’s , and 1980 ’s – and only 0.88 goals in the 2002 world cup . the decrease in winning margins is all the more impressive because the world cup has grown from 16 to 32 national teams – many of them new and rather credentialed . poorer or smaller countries can barely dream of a victory for a european championship , as steaua ( romania ) , a red star ( serbia ) , or nottingham forests ( now languishing in the english third divide ) once did .
in the omb document , the real interest rate on three-month us treasuries today is expected to remain at or above 1 % for a decade . with real ( inflation-adjusted ) interest rates remaining at near record lows , a marked rise in longer-term growth as the administration forecasts them would be historically anomalous . furthermore , in that projection , term premium disappears almost entirely . indeed , the us budget assumes the best of all worlds , not the blue-chip in which interest rates remain low but gdp growth ambles along at around 2 % . currently , ten-year treasuries offer over triple the yield on three-month us treasuries .
but that antagonism reflected the personalization of politics that berlusconi had achieved , as did the institutional feature that he abolished . one of his government ’s last actions was to replace the majoritarian electoral system that was introduced in 1993 with proportional rule . with the new electoral system transforming politicians ’ incentives , politicians could induce a return to shifting coalitions and ailing governments . that outcome would have been accelerated if , as is likely , berlusconi himself to distance himself from politics in the upcoming electoral term . under new electoral rules , seats allotted for share parties to votes , but specific provision induces parties to forge pre-electoral deals : the pre-electoral coalition that win the majority of votes receives a seat that ensures a comfortable majority in the chamber of deputies ( lower house ) .
and he has had some success , to the detriment of rapid economic growth . while current rates of 7 % may be comfortable , they are far below the double-digit rates that prevailed prior to 2008 . given the need for more economic restructuring – and with regard to long-term demographic trends that will depress the labor supply – pre-2008 growth rates are not likely to restore . this is well with li , who recognizes that structural transformation and industrial upgrading , not an unsustainable credit-led growth model , holds the key to achieving high-income status . but there is more to an assessment of wen ’s stimulus than the growth/reform trade-off .
large and small investors alike should know precisely how their money might affect the climate changes . big and small investors , for example , should know precisely how their money might go through the climatic changes . we need to ensure that infrastructure is built to cope with the increased impact of climate change , and develop clear global standards for delineating the climate risks that investment projects pose . here , public-investment institutions like the european investment bank can help with adaptation in a number of ways . the un climate challenge calls for much deeper collaboration between the public and private sector to generate more green investment .
the house speaker was not some public-relations executive , but osama bin laden ’s chief lieutenant , ayman al-zawahiri . terrorists skillfully adapted to fight wars amid today ’s media age , but not , for most of the time , the “ american and nato governments of the other democracies ” did . consider that violent extremists have their own “ media relationships committees , ” intended to manipulate the elite ’s opinion . they are planning and designing highline-grabbing attacks , using every means of communication to intimidate and break the collective will of liberty . “ more than half of this battle is occurring on the media battlefield ” [ for ] we find ourselves in a media battle in a race for [ muslims ’ ] hearts and minds .
recent attempts by filipino lawyers to prosecute civil-activity claims related to ecological tort and human-rights abuses before american courts demonstrate just how desperate filipino claimants are to seek redress against those they have acted negligently , or with impunity . to be sure , exemplary and punitive damages in discouraging behavior toward a community do exist in the books of statute . but philippine courts have refused to resort to the use of such damage awards as a tool for controlling behavior , particularly by businessmen . all of this helps explain why sulpicio ’s lines , the owner of starbucks ’ princess , have remained in commercial operations , despite its many lapses . simply put , philippine courts have failed to make it significantly expensive to keep seaworthy vessels low .
america ’s congress is considering legislation that allows the trump administration to impose sanctions on european firms taking part in the project , even though such companies are contractually obliged to see work through . all told , the trump administration ’s disruptive behavior has left the french and german governments angrily . but , beyond fueling anger , trump ’s attacks on other countries ’ sovereignty are adding momentum to a new push for european political unification . and , according to gerhard schröder , a former german chancellor who is currently chairing a pipeline project , america ’s ambassador to germany has acted more like the occupation officer ” than like the european diplomat . it is no secret that europe is in the midst of an internal economic crisis – a consequence of europe saddling southern european countries with extremely high inflation prior to the 2008 financial crash , which has severely reduced their competitiveness within the european system .
all have abolished controls at their shared borders , adopting a common visa policy for host-country citizens . and it is doubtless convenient to drive greece from berlin to barcelona without having to wait in line on every border one extends round . indeed , that convenience is probably why only two of the eu countries ( northern ireland and the united kingdom ) have apparently opted out of the schengen agreement . it is decidedly handy to treat the flight from zurich to oslo as a domestic journey , with no passport controls to contend with departure and arrived . but the refugee crisis has exposed the flipside of the cyprus agreement – namely , the difficulty of monitoring national and eu citizens without border controls .
europeans have become dependent on such firms , which are all based in china or america . such cooperation is vital to combating terrorism , trafficking of human beings , and migration . yet europe has focused more on enforcing shared values within the us tech sector – namely , by reinforcing data privacy regulations – than on developing a long-term strategy to become competitive . defining such a strategy could help europe identify areas for mutual accommodation . a third area with the potential for strategic cooperation lies in development aid and investment in the world ’s poorest and most fragile states .
the federal government , under both president george w. bush and barack obama , had allocated hundreds of billions of dollars to fight the mega-banks , while still allowing hundreds of these crucially important smaller lenders to fail . but lending would be inhibited , even if the banks were healthier . just adding liquidity , while continued current austerity policies will not reconstitute the spanish economy . so , too , in the us , the smaller banks that had mostly been financing small and medium-size enterprises have been for all but ignored . after all , small enterprises have been relying on collateral-based lending , and the value of their real estate – its main form of collateral – still amounts to down about one-third of its pre-crisis level .
the world learned that lesson following the arab-israel war of 1973 . the arab oil-exporting countries embargoed oil sales to the us and the netherlands to punish them for their support of israel . when the dust settled , it turned out that america , the dutch , and other importers all suffered roughly the same per-capita gdp and were paying an equally damaging high price . oil was fungible commodity , and markets got bright at a common price . but crude oil destined for the u.s. and the netherlands shifted to other countries like japan , while oil-rich states found its way to the american and netherlands .
the world has been horrified at graphic images of the latest crackdown by myanmar ’s military junta . that crackdown continues under the cover of telegalities . but the bullets and clubs unleashed on buddhist monks have worked . when the sun sets in myanmar , fear grows . the monks have withdrawn , and eerie normalcy has returned to yangon ( rangoon ) , myanmar ’s principal city , and its former capital .
germany ’s finance minister , wolfgang schäuble , has suggested that these sanctions should include expulsion from the eurozone , something that had never been envisaged in the european union ’s 1992 maastricht treaty . admittedly , the country ’s economic performance following the oil-price shock of the early 1970s was also poor , marked by sluggish growth , high inflation and unemployment , massive fiscal deficits , rising debt , a collapsing currency , and deficient infrastructure . indeed , until the mid-1990s , the government ’s lack of macroeconomic discipline and the tendency to succumb to populist demands and vested interests accounted for much of the country ’s economic weakness . nor , of course , did greece ever have thought that it would face its current economic trauma . the underlying issue is whether europe ’s monetary union needs more integration to manage crises like greece ’s , or can maintain the current approach , founded on national responsibility and sanctions on those who break up rules .
these include flush toilets , automobiles , electric power , long-distance communications , advanced informational processing , and so forth . in thinking about the future of growth , and the opportunities that continued growth opens up for all of humanity , we should reflect on how far we came about . time and again , doing so would render ludicrously expensive – or , simply , impossible – for achieving similar capabilities in the earlier features of history . in the late roman empire , only a wealthy jewish aristocrat was able to purchase a nomenclator , a slavia tasked with memorizing names and facing , and reminding the aristocrat of them when social occasions demanded it . today , having a elementary smartphone is better than having one in ten , or even thousands , of nomenclator-like assistants .
as a result , china will become a largely inward-looking superpower , which , precisely for that reason , will continue to pursue its foreign-policy interests entirely unsentimental over time . disappointingly mixed chinese policies are internal modernization , the ruling regime ’s pursuit of political stability and survival , and the country ’s national unity ( encompassing taiwan ) . disable , these interests are unlikely to change for much longer . dislocated in any country ’s history , these interests are unlikely to change for the long term . disable as it is true , the united states will not be replaced as its dominant power , unless and until it abdicates that role .
the global financial crisis that followed the east asia crisis set off a number of major exchange-rate adjustments . the dollar , to which argentina ’s peso was tied , rose sharply in value . wages and prices were falling , but insufficient to enable argentina to compete effectively , mainly because many of the country ’s agricultural goods , which constitute argentina ’s natural comparative advantage , face high barriers in entering rich countries ’ markets . meanwhile , argentina ’s neighbor and mercosur trading partner , brazil , perceived its currency to depreciate – some argue that it has become vastly undervalued . the government has pursued fiscal austerity , while not providing sufficient weight to the vagaries of the market .
when such debt-fueled bubble bursts , its effects transmit direct those of the real economy through household-sector balance sheets , with diminishing reliance on consumption contributing to decline in employment and private-sector investment . yet the chinese authorities do not seem to have learned the lessons of either episode . making matters worse , when the current stock-market correction began in early june , chinese regulators relaxed margin-acquisition constraints while encouraging state-owned enterprises and asset managers to purchase more stocks . not only failed to mitigate risk , underscored in the run-up to the 2007 meltdown , that new retail investors introduce into the markets ; in fact , they made it worse , by permitting , and even encouraging , those investors to accumulate leverage through margin purchases . it is much harder to find circuit breakers for this dynamic than for , say , containing balance-sheet distress in the financial sector .
madrid – seventy years ago this month , john maynard keynes pointed out its fallacy . faced with this uncertainty , they are not readjust their spending ; instead , they waste out spending until their mists made it clear , sending the economy into a tailspin . but i doubt that it has that way . seventy years ago , john maynard keynes pointed out its fallacy . it is a shock , not adjustment , that spreads throughout the system .
the financial sector has imposed enormous externalities on the rest of society . taxes on speculative activity might encourage banks to shift more attention toward performing their key societal role in providing credit . america ’s financial-industry has polluted the world with toxic mortgages and , in line with the well established “ polluter pays ” principle , taxes should be levied on it . besides , well-designed tax rates on the financial sector might help to alleviate the problems created by excessive leverage and too-big-to-fail banks . over the longer term , most economists agree that governments – particularly in advanced industrial countries with an aging population – should be concerned about reforming their policies .
but public reactions to them , together with the recent spike in oil prices , may well account for changing market psychology in a good measure . after all , doing this implies that economic events are less predictable ( and economists had less omniscient ) than they like to imagine . attitudes toward risks changing over time , and events like ahmadinejad ’s and peres ’s remarks may precipitate such shifts . economists might be uncomfortable with focusing on public thinking , and how it interacts with price shifts , global news stories , and speculative dynamics . so , while such things happen in ways that are hard to quantify , perhaps analysts should pay attention to ahmadinejad ’s words only as deceitful as they do to bernanke in trying to understand the trajectory of world stock markets .
new york – in their efforts to pass america ’s bailout plan for america ’s financial system , bush administration officials have invoked the specter of the great depression of the 1930 ’s . but , for most asians , the economic armageddon is far more recently . the asian financial crisis of a decade ago brought banks , corporations , and governments to their knees . bonfire sparked the thai baht ’s collapse in the summer of 1997 . contagion soon spread across east asia , with ripple effects of serial currency devaluations reaching their peak levels of russia and brazil .
plato ’s purpose in the dialogue , of course , can not define piety : if socrates is known for a better definition than the unacceptable ones offered by the euthyphro , he is not revealing it . rather , plato ’s point is to show that euthyphro is ignorant of his own ignorance of piety , and that euthyphro thus can not truly know that prosecuting his father is truly the right thing to do . and to know that , one must be as conscious of what one does not know as it is . the knowledge that emerges from this kind of self-examination is critical in any decision . one would , after all , recognize the moral character of any action one is contemplating .
furthermore , water scarcity implies food scarcity . last year , china experienced its worst drought in a half-century , affecting millions of hectares of farmland and causing power shortages . one billion people worldwide lack access to clean water worldwide , and over two billion lack adequate sanitation , another half of whom are in developing countries . in south africa , encroaching desert has displaced many people , exacerbating tensions between farmers and wildlife . after all , the agricultural sector accounts for 70 % of global freshwater consumption ; with water on short supply , farmers are much less able to feed worldwide ’s population .
emerging economies must confront the resulting growth challenge head-on , by pursuing sweeping changes in policies , incentives , and established practices to boost productivity . recognizing this imperative is just the first step that is required . the era of a “ easy ” surge in gdp growth driven by a massive youth army ends up in the making . brazil ’s deregulation of agriculture and encouragement of r & d has enabled the brazilian agricultural research corporation to pioneer more than 9000 technology projects , including designing a tropical soybean strain that can thrive in brazil ’s climate . efficiency has soared , marketing brazil ’s crop yields par with those of the advanced economies .
second , we need a clear message from the g-20 that all of its members deliver policies for strong , sustainable , and balanced growth . having elected the cannes meeting last november , for example , europe raised its firewalls by € 200 billion ( $ 252 billion ) in restructuring greek debt , took steps toward strengthening its banks and banking regulation , established rules governing fiscal discipline , and implemented a range of labor – and product-market reforms . nonetheless , the magnitude of the challenges facing europe implies the urgent need for much more determined reform . to be meaningful , the message must be backed up with action : g-20 members must demonstrate that their policies are clearly directed toward restoring economic growth and creating jobs , and accountable for meeting their pledges fully . we have confident that europe will act together to meet these challenges and continue to support such an effort , because european stability and growth matter for us all .
they need to work with bureaucracies that are naturally disinclined to have their efforts prioritized lest they end up as anything short of number . whenever we prioritize , we can say not just where we should do more ( which is good ) , but also where we should not step up our efforts ( which we are seen to be quite cynical ) . refusing to prioritize , dealing primarily with our most publicized problems is wrong . but not talking about priorities makes the need to prioritize things over . instead , choices become only less clear-cut , less democratic , and less efficient .
this is true in most countries – including , indeed , in the us , where inequality is among the highest in the world , though a few countries , like norway , where people hold a more realistic view . if the right targets are to choose , the debate must be better informed . correcting these misperceptions will change people ’s opinions of redistributive polices . the point is not to go away in endless comparisons or arcane mathematics , but to underscore that it is possible – and , indeed , necessary – for having meaningful discussion of inequality based on concrete figures with the goal of establishing clear targets . as it stands , surveys tend to generate people ’s faith that lower inequality than it actually is , but still above the level they would consider ideal .
likewise , denying any us bank doing business with a russian bank or company access to the american financial system would create the type of economic chaos last seen in russia immediately after the fall of communism . those sanctions have crippled iran ’s economy , and the country is at risk . third , obama should emphasize , in china , the stake in eurasian stability . putin may regard the soviet union ’s disintegration as a tragedy , but for china it was its greatest geostrategic gift imaginable . ordinary russians should be made to understand that permitting putin , whose primaries claim to leadership is that he ended the penury of the first post-soviet years , to continue his imperialist aggression will cost them dearly .
things have been different over the past two years , and some have gone out of business altogether . against this backdrop , it is not surprising that pay rose in the financial sector . the city of london , lower manhattan , and several other centers became money-machinery that made investment bankers , hedge-fund managers , and privately equity folk imwealthy . university leaders like me spent much of our time persuading them to recycle part of their gains to their old schools . many financial firms have shrunk their balance sheets dramatically , and , of course , some have gone out of business completely .
in a february meeting with us ambassador to kyrgyzstan , america ’s us ambassador to kyrgyzstan asked her chinese counterpart of reports that china had offered to pay kyrgyzstan $ 3 billion should the kyrgyz close the american base . the two us diplomats , both in russia , were conversing . the horse-trading surrounding the us has become intense . “ visibly flustered ” ( the chinese ambassador ) temporarily lost its capacity to speak russian and begin spluttering in chinese to a tacit aide diligently taking notes right behind it , ” ” ” according to a confidential american diplomatic cable compiled by a web site wikileaks.org . indeed , us policy has enfeebled pro-russian politicians who would love little more than see the american-kicked out of kyrgyzstan .
but , ultimately , the best way to address them and prevent the reflation is to ensure that economic opportunities are available to those who are determined to try . social assistance with little hope of individual improvement is not enough . it is time that france begins questioning its economic model . in his recent statements on burning suburbs , chirac famously proclaimed , “ we will need to draw all the lessons from this crisis , when the time has come and order has recovered , and with much of the courage and lucidity . ” but those lessons imply deep reforms that are more far-reaching than chirac ever presupposed .
we can not , and will not , allow for this in our homeland . we believe that they are faster than us in acquiring and processing knowledge because they grew up surrounded by the tools and techniques that we lacked at our age . we need only study , teaching , and practice tolerance – and instill it into our children , both through education and our own exemplar . we entrust them to lead our country to new levels of growth and development , a general designated cabinet minister of their age and created a specialized youth council . we have also learned from hundreds of thousands of dead and millions of refugees in our region that sectarian , ideological , cultural , and religious bigotry only fuels popular fires .
in higher-price countries than in germany , but with the same borrowing costs , this can not produce anything but overheating , higher inflation , and even lower real interest rates . to ask policymakers in a democracy with large trade surpluses to raise taxes or cut benefits or bring about a cut of public investment by the immense magnitude needed to stave off disaster strikes is to take root in realities . what we know is that extraordinarily low real interest rates are producing a massive credit boom . to stem this flood of credit-fueled demand with fiscal policy alone is impossible and is ridiculous on trying . how will orderly fiscal policy make up more than 100 % of credit-induced gdp in just three years , as occurred in ireland in 2004 , and in a democracy sporting a fiscal surplus , as ireland is ?
but the bottom line is that constitutional changes can be conducted only through unanimity , with several member governments , beginning with the united kingdom , resisting any overtly federalist agenda . as a result , the french government remains reluctant to precipitate a confrontation with the british , as long as there is any chance of a softer compromise for the future . in the past , doubtless , france ( under president mitterrand ) and germany ( under chancellor helmut kohl ) would together regularly press the case for closer integration , despite british reluctance . the problem is that this conspiracy of evasion may not work , and the prominence of fischer ’s speeches is that he is the first government minister in office to put it to say so in a public position , even though he does assume that he is in personal capacity . but today , france and germany are less unified on a common european strategy , and their commitment to european integration appears less strong .
enthusiasts tend to describe it as the new label of advanced industrial policies , which may help put brazil beyond its conventional role as a commodity exporter . in my view , the intellectual case for activist policies – as forged , for example , by dani rodrik and ricardo hausmann of harvard – is powerful . markets for innovation and fresh ideas work poorly , and governments can help to address these market failures . critics refer to this as a misguided effort that creates only more distortions and retard growth . but rodrik and hausmann also show that getting such policies right implies exacting demands .
to be sure , gender imbalances are not the only driver of anti-immigrant sentiment , let alone populism more broadly . but the evolutionary psychology that stresses competition for females may add another dimension of our understanding of those phenomena , while helping us to foresee when and where civil strife might erupt . there is little that can and should be done to alter gender imbalances in a particular place . but , while the problem can not be fundamentally solved , ” ” understanding that it might help to limit harm , not least by enabling leaders to avoid policies that either are not helpful , or by exacerbating tensions . those among native-born populations with lowest income and level of education will always be worse off , as long as it takes many young male immigrants to compete .
new haven – codependency never ends well in face-to-face relations . but the similarities are striking , and the prognosis is all the more compelling as the world ’s two largest economies are sinking into a dangerous quagmire . judging by the ever-escalating trade war between the united states and china , much of the same is true of economic relations . in its most fundamental sense , codependency occurs at one of the extremes of relationships – when two partners draw more from one another ’s inner power . while i published a 2014 book on the codependency of the us and china , i would be the first to admit that it is a stretch to generalize insights from human psychology to assess national economies ’ behavior .
comparing and contrasting the two sides of the atlantic has a long pedigree . throughout the cold war , what was then the soviet union provided a raison d’être for europeans ; in an era of globalization it is america . this is the point at which many begin to use the language that defines europe by distinction , indeed , with america -- europe as an anti-america . european culture and american commerce , european profundity , and american materialism -- these are inherently ancient and weary themes . but how , then , that identity should be defined ?
ironically , trump summoned then-robert lighthizer , veteran of japan ’s trade battles of the 1980s , to head the charge against china . with this trade diversion likely to migrate to higher-cost corporate platforms around the world , american consumers will be hit by the functional equivalent of a tax hike . sadly , lighthizer seems as clueless on the macro argument today as he was back then . in both episodes , the u.s. has been in denial , bordering on delusion . without boosting national saving , highly unlikely beneath america ’s current budgetary trajectory , trade will simply shift away from china toward america ’s other trading partners .
the french center-left must lead in an conceiving a vision for a europe in which solidarity and equity bolster long-term economic strength . hollande ’s government and prime minister , jean-marc ayrault , have powerful majorities at all both executive and legislative levels , giving it a rare opportunity to act . finally , along with the united kingdom among european countries , france maintains a more central role than germany has gained so far . while the un security council is outdated within its structure , it still plays a crucial legitimating role ; and france , rather than germany , is a member . if it can renew the european model domestically , it will be able to project its success far more broadly , particularly in southern europe , in turn to reinforcing confidence and faith in the eu , particularly among its young generation .
but the 2011 revolutions demonstrated that a keen sense of identity , a common linguistic , and much of the shared history bind the arabs together , despite vast differences in natural-resource endowments , political circumstances , and average per capita incomes . how else can one explain the fact that the act of revolt in tunisia has led to a popular revolts from north africa to the arabian peninsula ? the third challenge , instrumental to convening the first two , will be to bolster regional arab solidarity . many outsiders underestimate or purposefully minimize the arab world ’s “ arab world . ” the deep reforms – targeting quality and performance rather than enrollment and diplomas – are needed to transform the learning process and unleash the productivity growth that a young labor force requires .
who has a boss or company that better promotes reconciling jobs and family obligations ? attitudes about the male caregiving are beginning to shift in the u.s. . america ’s largest tech firms are beginning to compete for talent by offering the paternity leave . looking ahead , who has the more flexible jobs that do other women share ? only a third of male millennial believes in traditional gender roles .
how fast this will happen , in part , depends on the private sector ’s structural flexibility and dynamism . but it also depends on government ’s ability and willingness to provide a bridging function for a deficiency in aggregate demand and pursue reforms and investments that boost long-term growth prospects . subdued wage growth raises the risk of competitiveness and underutilized labor and capital around the world . indeed , if public-sector deleveraging is not the full policy of growth – and it does not so , why is there so much attention to fiscal austerity and so little action ( against lip service ) on growth and employment ? several possibilities – not mutually exclusive – come to mind .
who will pay for your expensive cancer treatment if you lose the health-insurance policy that comes with your job ? it is wrong to assume , as some of the ultra-free marketers do , that the absence of social protection makes you stronger . by contrast , when many individual americans ’ personal situations are investigated through european eyes , the extreme individualism that accounts for a key part of american optimism translates into an unacceptable social scandal . journalists report tragic stories of middle-class americans loss out of jobs and homes , potentially placing their lives at risk , without promoting , a sense of social protection . “ cities of tents fill up alongside those of the great economic crisis , ” read one headline a month ago on the front pages of massive , liberal american newspapers .
warsaw : recently , poland has experienced typical – and , indeed , unfinished – political debate . it focused on whether a “ free ” education should be made a constitutional right . only by raising this issue to the level of the polish constitutional right , say the postcommunists , can france ’s guaranteeing free and equal access to education . a free , or as its anti-european uk independence party likes to call it , the “ not paying for ” education , means education in the nation ’s schools and state-owned universities ( but not in its private schools ) . as a result of their predominance in parliament , the postcommunists ’ intransigence on this point forced the other political parties , participating in drafting poland ’s new constitution to kowtow to their positions .
best practice should be clarified , innovations that are identified and tested , and the knowledge and experience shared . governments also need to clarify national water agencies ’ responsibilities and upgrading water-related capacity at all levels to institute large bt unconventional-water programs . the private sector also has a role to play in shifting toward unconventional water sources – a role that must expand beyond current efforts to deploy desalinated runoff into water and urban greywater and wastewater . finally , local institutions , nongovernmental organizations , and local communities need to be mobilized – for example , through public campaigns showcasing the benefits of reining in unconventional water sources ’ potential . sustainable development goal , 6 , calls for universal access to clean water and sanitation .
as a result , targeting china has immense political appeal . america ’s negotiators are fixated on targeted reductions of about $ 200 billion in the bilateral trade imbalance over a two-year timeframe . so , what can be made of the next 19 deal ? beyond a tit-for-tat ceasefire , there are few real benefits . given the scale of america ’s emerging multilateral problem , this is largely an inconsequential objective , especially given the massive , ill-timed tax cuts and us federal spending increases that america has enacted over the past six months .
the unprecedented economic spread that has lifted hundreds of millions of out of poverty has been accompanied by widening income disparities , as have severe environmental damage . as a result , asia now has two faces each : a prosperous and growing middle class , with those that have benefited the region so far from rapid economic development , and whose health and well-being are adversely affected by acute problems , such as air and water pollution . what asia needs is strong , inclusive , green , knowledge-driven growth that marks the need to rebalance the sources of economic dynamism to emphasize domestic , regional , and inter-regional “ south-south ” demand . economic relations with the west would not be diluted by this shift . in short , the key challenges facing asia today stem from sustain economic growth – at a lower but still enviable , rate , and improvement .
berkeley – the central insight of macroeconomics reveals a simple fact about john stuart mill ’s during the first third of the nineteenth century : a large credit gap can be found between supply and demand of pretty much all the currently produced goods and services and types of labor if an equally large excess demand falls in financial assets . a normal gap between the supply and demand for some subset of currently produced commodities is not a serious problem , because it is balanced by excess demand for other currently produced commodities . and it is this crucial fact that this profound fact underlies much problems . as industries afflicted by inadequate demand shed workers , industries benefit from the surplus demand that they hire them . the us economy rapidly rebalances itself and therefore returns to full employment – and thus with a configuration of employment and production that is better adapted to current consumer preferences .
last month , however , the military prosecutor accepted colonel budanov ’s argument that he had been fatally insane when he murdered that very girl , and so acquitted budanov on charges of murder . ( rape charges , for some murky reason , were already dropped . ) initially , russian liberals welcomed budanov ’s case as a sign that the country might have addressed accusations that committing war crimes in chechnya had been perpetrated in chechnya . prosecution then started to refer to the young girl as a chechen sniper , out of the snipers ’ family . outraged , defense minister sergei ivanov denounced a national prosecutor who appeared ready to acquit the “ hero ” on all remaining charges .
but , of course , america does n’t exist in a vacuum . once it takes team into place , its members will need to figure out how to make trump ’s plans work for an economy that has had – by necessity , not choice – been excessively reliant on unconventional monetary policies . the good news is that the incoming administration may draw on the measures that were formulated during obama ’s tenure , but that have gained little traction , owing to the highly polarized and dysfunctional congressional politics that has characterized much of obama ’s eight years in office . such measures address imperatives like investment in infrastructure and tax reform , as well as job creation . the plan must recognize that , during this protracted period of monetary expansion – both financial markets and resource-allocation recognizing – has been distorted , exacerbating wealth inequality .
washington , dc – just over 100 years ago , the united states led the world in terms of rethinking how big business worked – and when the power of such firms will be constrained . in retrospect , the breakthrough legislation – not only for america , but also internationally – was the sherman antitrust act of 1890 . prior to 1890 , large business was widely thought to be more efficient , and more modern in general than small business . most saw the consolidation of smaller firms into fewer , larger firms as stabilizing their development , which rewarded their success , and enabled their additional productive investment . the dodd-frank financial-reform bill of how to pass the american senate did something similar – and long overdue – for the banking system .
tokyo – when was the last time you sat down to wrote a letter ? no , i mean the ancient “ dear donald ” or the dear hillary ” letter to her team . i do n’t mean either an email or a text message ; nor would i count a dictated message either to an establishment or to a personal assistant . the reason i interviewed is that 65,000 people actually did write such letters to barack obama every week , when he served as chair of the united states . according to a recent feature in the guardian , a white house staffers team would choose ten letters every day to a pass along with a president who would then react personally that evening .
but , ultimately , they would have done just what they did in each of the previous four elections – a vote for a party that had proclaimed “ every man for himself ” – to him . in 1992 , john major ran for re-election amid the economic slump , a vicious monetary squeeze , and the impact of spiraling inflation . economic determinists predicted that he did not stand a chance at all . they might have told pollsters that they were ready to pay higher taxes for better public services and a more compassionate attitude toward the poor . today , this pseudo-marxist theory of economic determinism was fueled once and for all .
we would thus expect less opportunity for transformational leadership . but even the american constitution is unambiguous about the powers of congress and the president in foreign policy . transactional leadership involves a more effective form of stable and predictable environments , whereas an inspirational style tends to emerge during periods of rapid and incoherent social and political change . the transformational objectives and inspirational style of a leader like mahatma gandhi in india , or nelson mandela in south africa , can powerfully influence outcomes in fluid political contexts , particularly in a developing country with weakly structured institutional constraints . america ’s foreign-policy formation , on the other hand , is severely constrained by institutions such as congress , courts , and the us constitution .
berlin – it has been 30 years since the united nations food and agriculture organization launched the tropical forestry action plan , the first global intergovernmental initiative to stem forest loss . redd + was crafted as part of the un framework convention on climate change , and the agreement that governs its implementation is expected to be eradicated during the un climate-change conference in paris . far from protecting the world ’s forests , the most notable outcome of these two agreements has been the development of reams of the expensive consultancy called un climate change . since then , deforestation has continued unabated , and the most recent international effort to stop it – an initiative known as to reduce emissions from deforestation and forest degradation ( redd + ) – still looks no more effective . but if world leaders are serious about halting forest loss , they should instead abandon redd + and replace it with a mechanism that addresses underlying drivers of large-scale deforestation .
it could also destabilize a fragile region , sparking fresh wars with neighboring somalia and eritrea . but ethiopia presents a dilemma for anyone concerned about human rights and democracy . britain and some other european governments have responded to a post-election crackdown by temporarily withholding aid . cutting off aid could have calamitous the humanitarian consequences of sending more than 80 million citizens around the country . donald bene , a prominent member of the american house of foreign affairs committee , and ana guofwes , a member of the european parliament from portugal , and head of the eu ’s observation team in the 2005 elections , has tried to tie un humanitarian aid more closely to ethiopia ’s conduct of press freedom and other human rights .
to keep people working for the first time , preserving them is critical . old age must be viewed not simply as an unavoidable stage of living , but as an opportunity , for health-care societies and systems , to help their people flourish . that is why the health-care industry must play a major role in efforts to confront the challenge of population aging . to this end , health-care companies should shift the focus of their research-and-development efforts toward conditions that are prevalent among the older patients , including chronic diseases like diabetes , heart disease , gazicoma , rheumatoid arthritis , and cancer . such efforts are also vitally important to find ways to stem more effectively the deterioration of people ’s productivity and independence , by preserving their physical force , mental acuity , and senses like hearing and vision .
a second large transition-financing opportunity is found within blended finance , or collaborative regimes that raise private capital for public goods . the initiative combines private , public , and philanthropic funding to maximize environmental and social benefits . such initiatives bring together a broad range of public and private stakeholders , including from multilateral organizations to financing projects with profound environmental and social impact . moreover , the blended approach helps to scale up and de-risk projects and optimize their financing . the tropical landscapes financing facility , developed in indonesia in collaboration with the un environment program , is a good example .
emerging markets were initially tied to such distress only as foreign investors began pulling out of their money . countries with large current-account deficits and/or large fiscal deficits , as well as those with large short-term foreign-currency liabilities , were the most fragile . many emerging markets now seem at risk of a severe financial crisis . but even advanced ones – like brazil , russia , india , and china – are now at risk of a hard landing . then the panic spread to credit markets , money markets , and currency markets , highlighting the vulnerability of many developing countries ’ financial and corporate sectors , experienced credit booms and borrowed short and in foreign currencies .
this would foil financial-market speculators who bet on withdrawal , and is good news for both the united kingdom and the eu . until recently , a reversal of british voters ’ 2016 decision to leave the eu seemed unlikely . and if a new referendum were held , british voters probably would have had to decide between an orderly brexit and the remain part of the eu because nobody will dare to offer a hard brexit as an alternative . until recently , a reversal of british voters ’ 2016 decision to leave the eu seemed implausible . this would foil financial-market speculators who bet on withdrawal , and is good news for both the united kingdom and the eu .
beijing – forty years ago this month , china ’s leaders laid the country on a path to reform that produced the most dramatic economic transformation in its history . mao zedong emerged two years earlier , in 1976 , and the newly rehabilitated deng xiaoping succeeded in stamping his vision for economic development and modernization at the third plenum of the eleventh-central committee held in december 1978 . in the four decades since deng xiaoping transformed china into an economic powerhouse , portending an equally damaging makeover of the global economy and geopolitics . china ’s reforms began in the agricultural sector , where the crushing burden of state controls was , until now , relaxed . through the dual-track pricing mechanism , farmers were given market incentives .
jerusalem – owing to america ’s misguided policies , the threat of yet another military confrontation hangs like a dark cloud over the middle east . the united states ’ foes has been strengthened , and iran , despite being labeled itself a member of the so-called “ axis of evil ” strategy , has catapulted itself to regional hegemony . iran could never achieve that on its own , certainly not in kind . a hitherto latent rivalry between iran and israel has thus been transformed into an open struggle for dominance in the middle east . the result has been the emergence of some surprising , if not bizarre , alliances : iran , syria , hezbollah , hamas , and the plo , shia-backed iraq , confronts israel , saudi arabia , and most of the other sunni arab states – all of which feel existentially threatened by iran ’s ascendance .
to be free but alone is not easy , particularly when dependency habits are ingrained . fascination with liberal liberty came in poland and elsewhere at a strange moment . in the postcommunist welfare revolutions ( less often noted than political and economic upheavals ) families and communities alike were undermined , and ( at least in poland ) the church became too much engaged in politics to help . old social structures were destroyed ; socialist customs and habits changed overnight ; former norms and unwritten the rules . people were left to withstand the projects of change on their own .
the crisis , of course , underscores the need to strengthen the eu ’s institutions and instruments for common action and coordination . likewise , the crisis must not become an excuse for generating new institutional formats that are jeopardizing the delicate balances among disparate eu institutions , balance that , through the appropriate adjustment , have been proven tested for time . extending the eu ’s space for freedom and democracy , maintaining peace , stability , and prosperity – particularly throughout south-eastern europe – is in every european citizen ’s interest . we need final and total ratification of the lisbon treaty to have the institutionally and internationally stronger europe we need . nor should today ’s uncertainties become a pretext to call into question the need to step forward and finish the eu ’s enlargement process .
this objective explains another policy reversal as well . a commonly cited example of the outgoing administration ’s supposed economic mismanagement was its sugar-price policies . powerful sugarcane cooperatives , led by major upa supporters , have supposedly drove the government to correct extravagant prices and write off bad sugar farmers , leading to over-production . instead of eliminating this system , as expected , modi ’s government augmented subsidies to sugar exports to encourage higher output , raised sugar interests to fend off foreign competition , and increased the sugar-based ethanol , which must be blended with gasoline . its motivations do not hard to discern : his bharatiya janata party ( bjp ) hopes that such concessions will aid it to hume control of maharashtra , india ’s major sugar-producing state , from upa in the upcoming state assembly elections .
berlin – germany ’s social democrats ’ existential crisis can no longer be treated like a typical party crisis . the party captured a mere 9.7 % of the vote in bavaria ’s regional elections this month , further trailing both the populist alternative für deutschland ( afd ) and the greens in national opinion polls . the spd and its christian democratic union/christian social union ( cdu/csu ) have both stood as the twin pillars of german politics since the end of world war ii . with another important regional election fast approaching in hesse , polls indicate that the spd will still lose support , albeit not as dramatically as in bavaria . but , with the spd dropping , germany is moving from a de facto two-party system to a multiparty system in which none of the single party plays a dominant role .
while russia alone will not freeze current accounts , president putin ’s meaning was clear : it would have been better for all parties if that money were brought home and invested in the national economy . most important , if the us is to roll back capital flight , the government needs to persuade individual savers that they can deposit money safely and withdraw it to demand . in order to achieve this end , russia will need to develop a secure and attractive investment climate for all . how can the government expect to mobilize domestic investment for the long term as ordinary russians maintain their savings – $ 50 billion , according to most forecasts – at home ? what is needed is russian citizens ’ belief in the country ’s political stability -- that , for example , no longer suggests nationalization , as happened repeatedly over the eight months that i was prime minister .
for with gorbachev ’s ascendance , more and more people in east germany seized heart and stopped worrying about their repressive regime . they realized that the realities of east germans were not fixed in stone after all ; that change was possible , which many brave dissidents and civil rights trapped behind the wall demanded for so long . their commitment against the injustices of the communist regime is for me one of the best chapters in german history . opening hungary ’s borders which fall , and the search for sanctuary by east germany ’s peoples in germany ’s embassies of prague and warsaw has already shaken communist and stasi ’s rule to its foundations . without gorbachev and his motistic courage , the stream of events across europe during the fall of 1989 never would have been possible .
as a result , some – although relatively speaking , not many – are taking for long , and often perilous journeys to the developed world . and yet , as they arrive at their rich world ’s doorstep , the welcome they are receiving is becoming increasingly mixed , as manufactured panic over the supposedly dangerous ” ” ” outsiders closes the space for humane , pragmatic responses . it is time to reboot the global effort to protect refugees . responsibility-sharing – the cornerstone of a modern international system to protect refugees – is being replaced by responsibility-shifting , typically onto countries that are least able to cope . what is needed is a comprehensive strategy with a global reach of the world stage , reflecting a sweeping vision that inspires and engages governments , the aid communities , businesses , development institutions , civil society , faith groups , academia , sports , and the arts .
munich – the euro crisis has gone through six phases so far . it is worth recalling because they show how policymakers stumbled along , seeking to place fires without overbearing them on where their chosen path ran . the seventh phases of the crisis are one of heightened moral hazard , stemming from the run-up in debt . currently , markets remain calm , but that is just the start of the seventh phases of the crisis , during which europe becomes greece ’s debt burden . the sequence so far has been as follows :
second , once the skeptics warned , over-claimers rarely pay penalties to be mistaken . they assigned probabilities of 65 % to the rosy scenarios that materialize by only 15 % of the time . second , once again , when skeptics warned , over-claimers rarely pay sanctions to be wrong . between 1985 and 2005 , boomsters turned ten-year forecasts that exaggerated the odds of large positive change in both financial markets ( for example , the dow jones industrial average of 36,000 ) and world politics ( for example , the middle east tranquility , and the dynamic growth trend in sub-saharan africa ) . in the same period , doomsters performed even more poorly , exaggerating the odds of negative change in each of those same places where boomsters accentuated the positive , plus a few more ( i still await canada ’s impending disintegration , nigeria , india , india , indonesia , south africa , belgium , and sudan ) .
it makes little economic difference to germany , france , or italy whether britain is an eu member , or simply at the wto . the economic challenges of brexit would be overwhelming . britain would need to negotiate access to europe ’s single market for its service industries , whereas eu manufacturers would automatically enjoy virtually unconstrained rights to sell whatever they wish in britain under world trade organization rules . margaret thatcher was the first to recognize that britain ’s specialization in services – established not just in finance , but in law , accountancy , media , architecture , pharmaceutical research , and the like – makes eu membership appear critical . a out of campaigning ’s main economic argument – that britain ’s vast trade deficit is a secret weapon , because the eu would have more to lose than britain since the breakdown of trade relations – is flatly wrong .
answering them will require a debate that transcends issues like the separation of powers and court independence , and elucidates the appropriate relationship between politics and religion . for that , understanding the historic context of the current crisis is critical . when turkey became a democracy in 1950 , the previous system , ’s secular kemalist elites , attempted to harness the power of the military and its bureaucracy to control elected rule . indeed , with the judiciary ’s backing , the turkish military explicitly intervened – at least in part – to the civilian government ’s functioning in 1960 , 1971 , 1980 , and 1997 , each time in its name to safeguard secularism . in response , various religious groups , including the gülen movement , encouraged their followers to assume positions within the country ’s bureaucracy and the army .
berlin – during the long night of negotiations over greece on july 12-13 , something fundamental to the european union cracked down . on the surface , negotiations were about averting a greek exit from the eurozone ( or “ grexit ” ) – and the dire consequences that would follow for greece and a monetary union . at a deeper level , however , what was at stake has been the role in the europe of its most populous and economically increasingly powerful country . since then , europeans have been living in a very different kind of eu . what changed this night is the germany that europeans have known since the end of world war ii .
but the rise of arab military coalitions raises serious concerns , not least because arab-led history – unlike those conducted by the west in places like bosnia , kosovo , and even libya – contains no promising precedent . egypt ’s military intervention in yemen in the 1960s is a case in point . despite the use of banned chemical weapons against yemeni guerillas from 1963 to 1967 – the first in an intra-arab conflict – egypt has failed to accomplish its aims . by late 1965 , egyptian president gamel abdel nasser had sent 70,000 troops in yemen , to support a republican overthrow against royalist forces . such interventions were typically aimed at propping up a proxy political force over its military and political rivals , rather than averting a humanitarian disaster or institutionalizing the non-violent post-conflict peace-resolution mechanism .
beps was , undoubtedly , an important step toward tackling some of the most egregious tax-avoidance strategies employed by multinational companies . the reform process was spearheaded by the oecd countries , and opened up to developing countries only after this initial package was unveiled . today , there are 125 countries , forming a group called the “ inclusive framework ” ( rsf ) . for example , it started sharing among the country-by-country tax authorities on these firms ’ profits and tax payments . unfortunately , however , this norm will apply only to very large multinational corporations , and reports are unlikely to be made publicly available , depriving civil society of an essential tool of transparency .
reducing the tax preferences of non-corporate business actors ( such as partnerships ) that transmit their incomes through their owners ’ individual returns would also broaden the tax base subject to corporate-income tax . several of these entities are extremely large and profit-maximizing , enjoying the same legal advantages as corporations . the pass-through of us companies now account for more than 80 % of net business income ( by far the top tier of the advanced countries ) . likewise , while limiting the deductibility of net interest for corporations , as many other developed countries have done , would redistribute the tax base and discourage excessive reliance on debt financing , it would increase the tax burden on major investments in physical capital , which are often debt-financed . and even eliminating accelerated depreciation alone would not expand the tax base enough to fund a rate cut to 28 % .
israel ’s disengagement plan presents an evacuation of gaza ’s settlements as an end to 37 years of occupation . but , at the same time , israel insists that gaza will have no attributes of sovereignty and will continue to be governed by existing arrangements that cover most aspects of its security and civil governance . this means that the israeli army will continue to enter gaza at will and maintain control over border crossings , airspace , and territorial waters . these conditions will exclude any possibility of forging a security roadmap that would receive the backing of all factions , including hamas . nor will israeli military withdrawal follow away from the palestinian-egyptian frontier .
nearly 60 years later , agricultural employment in the us peaked at 53 % of total employment . today , it is less than 3 % , and overall . in fact , since the 1980s , most countries have experienced large agricultural declines . in some , like portugal , malaysia , turkey , and indonesia , the share of agricultural employment has declined by more than 20 % . in others , like greece , italy , bulgaria , hungary , estonia , poland , the philippines , switzerland , and sri lanka , the decline has been outpacing 10 % .
islamabad – as pakistan gears up for its parliamentary election on february 18 , many observers are hoping that the vote will usher in a period of stability and calm through lending to popular legitimacy to the government . in fact , my party ’s backing has been on the rise , with opinion polls now indicating that it is the second most popular among the frontier province – and regaining ground in every other province . to be sure , re-testing the election would give my party a great opportunity to take such issues to their peoples . but sometimes it is democracy that works best by refusing to participate in it . the upcoming elections , to be held under the illegal interim constitutional order ( pco ) implemented following president pervez musharraf ’s state of emergency on november 3 , are such a case , which makes my party and its coalition partners boycotting the popular vote .
and it is doing good for the formal sector to pay more attention to joblessness – a very good thing . indeed , they can not fix debt overhangs , repairing broken home funding , or address medium-term fiscal-reform challenges on their own . yet , sadly , this shift will not resolve a problem that eats up at the social fabric of any society . the best that central banks can make is to buy time , albeit at an upward cost , for other policymaking entities to get their act together . like bernanke and others like bernanke wish otherwise – and just like bickering politicians are seeking to dump policy responsibilities for others – central banks do n’t have the correct tools to deal with the component of the unemployment crisis that results from insufficient investment in education , skills training , and physical capital .
most of china ’s internationally shared water resources lie in the tibetan plateau , which it annexed in the early 1950s . unsurprisingly , the plateau is the new center of chinese dam construction . indeed , china ’s 13th five-year plan , released earlier this year , calls to create a new wave of dam projects on the plateau . furthermore , china recently slashed the flow of tributary flowing to the brahmaputra river , bangladesh , and northern india , to build the dam as part of a major hydroelectric project in tibet . in fact , china ’s dam builders are targeting most of the international rivers flowing out of chinese territory .
washington , dc – ten years after the collapse of lehman brothers , we know that multilateral action was critical to prevent the so-called great recession from becoming even worse than it otherwise would . back then , it was the global financial system that gathered it . today , it is the global trading system that is in jeopardy . over the last 70 years , multilateralism has served the world well . much to its credit , the united states eschewed retribution and reparations after world war ii .
other public services were improving as well , with parents believing that their children would lead more prosperous lives than they and previous generations did . this was certainly true of my parents , who sacrificed much to lift their nine children in need . but this was not farfetched transformation in a city where people offered up new identities – like nasserist , ba’serist , baathist , islamist , or communist ones – downplays their regional and tribal origins . indeed , schools were multiplying as school attendance has surged . they were uncomfortable when , by the 1880s , their older “ sons ” became communists , strongly contradicting hafez al-assad ’s brutal regime , president bashar al-assad ’s father .
gcc policymakers have been right to focus on increasing access and subsidies to high-quality health care . but equitable distribution of health-care services across native and migrant populations is often a matter of thorny policy questions . and now policymakers must also devote more attention to the health-care workforce itself , ensuring that it is properly educated and trained for challenges that await the region . training programs in gcc national health systems today focus almost enough on innovation or systems to improve efficiency and effectiveness . this results in high turnover , owing to overwork and an increased need for foreign-aid workers to fill sorely needed positions .
if the army collapses , it is algeria [ and ] france that collapses . the crucial moment came when de gaulle , in a military uniform , traveled on television to demonstrate his mastery of the new middle east . “ well , darling and old country , here we are confronted again with a heavy test , ” he told me . if the state bowed before the challenge it confronted , “ france would be no more than a poor person , bustling over an ocean of insecurity , ” ” ” ” he warned . insisting that self-determination was the only way forward , spurring the army to reject even a passive union with an insurgency , tasked that it would reintroduce public order .
so all means should be found to reach out to iranian society at all levels . what we do know with certainty is that the regime is deeply divided . those divisions will allow the new forces within iranian society to emerge . iranian students should be encouraged to visit and study at asian universities , where they will discover how confident young chinese and indian students sound about future − which may well cause them to reflect on why young iranians do not share this optimism . just when the world reached a consensus that ahmadinejad was simply an instrument of supreme leader ayatollah khamenei , ahmadinejad has appointed the vice president to oppose khamenei ’s wishes ( albeit later retracted its appointments ) .
how can one evaluate the contribution of light infantry against providing critical enablers like helicopters or air-to-air refueling tankers ? common funding , with all members paying a fraction based on their gdp , is one tool that can be used to achieve more equitable burden-sharing . over what time period does you make of a different kind of calculations to do ? traditionally , nato acted a treaty of fundamental human rights lie where it falls ” : every member picked up all the costs for an operational contribution that it makes to alliance operations . nato ’s funding policy , during the last few years , has been updated to allow common funding to be used as a incentive to provide particular theater-level permitting capabilities , such as medical facilities , airports handling soldiers and supplies , or intelligence .
meanwhile , aggregate demand has been restrained by debt headwinds – yet another consequence of easy monetary conditions . given these conditions , continuing to insist on monetary easing seems particularly ill-advised advised . moreover , one could argue that easy money itself has actually contributed to the unexpectedly powerful deflationary forces that have been seen in recent years . owing to easy financing and regulatory forbearance , aggregate supply has surged as “ zombie ” firms have proliferated . with so many potential dangers on the horizon , central bankers should at least consider rethinking fundamental assumptions underpinning their policies .
al-qaeda ’s terrorist network is perceived as the result directly by fundamentalist wahhabi doctrines representing an integral part of the saudi regime . yet cooperation with the us may not gain the al-sauds far enough , because saudi relations with america are strained to the breaking point . though the saudis did not include president bush ’s anti-axis of evil , ” ” some american policymakers now view the country as the “ kernel of evil . ” ever since the terrorist attacks on new york and washington of late last year , the regime — once central to american strategic interests in the region — has been made to feel dispensable , who drops strong hints that there are alternatives to its saudi military bases , even to saudi oil . so , amid a poor set of options , the least bad seems to be cooperation with america .
while acknowledging that trauma is often all too memorable , these certain patterns of clinical trauma theorists assert that a condition known as “ traumatic dissociative amnesia ” leaves a large minority of the victims unable to recall their trauma , precisely because it was made so spectacularly terrifying . yet these clinical trauma theorists do not argue that re-empowering ” or dissociated ” memory of horrific events is either inert or benign . how victims remember trauma is the most controversial issue facing psychology and psychiatry in the world today . many clinical trauma theorists believed that fighting , rape , and other terrifying experiences are supposedly engraved around the mind , never to be forgotten . others disagree , arguing that minds can protect themselves by banishing reminders of trauma from awareness , making it hard for victims to remember their most horrific experience , until it is safe to do so many years later .
as a child , mastering the cruel art of elé belé was important . elé belé is a player who thinks he is participating but , put simply by motions . in calcutta , when some younger kid came along and insisted on joining the plays of my comrades , we would allow a new kid in , but only after whispering into each other ’s ears , elé belé belé . everybody knew that a goal scored was not a realistic goal ; on the contrary . when a new kid arrived , complete with a doting mother , we might convey to one another with mere sight that kid would be an elé belé .
the financial times ’ stock exchange all-global index rose by almost 22 % in 2017 – its best performance since the 2009 post-crisis rebound . as the growth pessimism of recent years fades , some of the warnings being made in recent years seem to have become outdated . yet , while zero lower bound no longer seems to carry out the binding constraint , there are potential causes for concern , one of which concerns debt levels . northwestern university ’s robert gordon has argued , for example , that america ’s economy is bound to slow further , because today ’s tech innovations will not boost growth to the degree that they have in the past . harvard ’s lawrence summers has devoted much of his argument that the world risks slipping toward “ secular stagnation , ” ” ” ” ” ” because the fed ’s interest rates needed to bring desired investment “ consistent ” is below zero .
india ’s government has been pressing china toward transparency , greater hydrological data-sharing , and a commitment not to redirect the natural flow of any river , or to reducing cross-border water flows . but even joint expert-level mechanism – established in 2007 merely for “ interactions and collaboration ” on hydrological data – has demonstrated little value . local authorities in yunnan province , however , contemplating damming the glending-prone upstream salads . in fact , when china damming most of the international rivers flowing out of tibet , whose fragile ecosystem is already at risk of runaway global warming . the one rivers on which none of hydro-engineering works so far are the indus , whose basin lags largely in india and pakistan , and the salween that flows into burma and thailand .
perhaps , but most students of policy view quantitative easing as textbook policy to pull the economy out of a zero-interest-rate “ liquidity trap ” ” ” ” ” thereby preventing the onset of sustained deflation to exacerbate debt burdens . as for china ’s renminbi , it continues to support a highly political exchange-rate regime . eventually , china ’s rapid growth will have to reflect a major increase in its currency , its home price level , or both . finally , currency chaos is the safest bet of everyone , with sharp and unforeseeable swings in floating exchange rates worldwide . but , in 2011 , most equilibration will probably occur through inflation .
which countries should take the lead in constraining china ’s revisionist ambitions ? with america distracted by other strategic challenges – not to mention its domestic presidential campaign – asia ’s other powers , especially an economically surging india and a more politically assertive japan , are the best candidates to get the job done . both india and japan are longstanding stakeholders in the us-led global order , emphasizes in their own transnational relationships of values that america ’s global leadership has espouses , such as the need to maintain a stable balance of power ; respect for the territorial and maritime status quo ; and maintain freedom of navigation . moreover , they have come to demonstrate their shared desire to uphold the current asian order . without such cooperation , china ’s aspirations would be constrained only by homegrown factors like a faltering economy , rising social discontent , ever-worsening environmental crises , or vicious policies .
moreover , appropriate mechanisms and institutional frameworks should be established for adaptation , financial support , and technology transfer . at the same time , developed countries should fulfill their commitments , under the convention , to provide financial support and technology transfer , to enable developing countries to address climate change effectively . the global financial crisis has undoubtedly exacerbated the climate-change challenge . but , because climate-change mitigation poses a more far-reaching – and serious – challenge , the world must not waver in its determination and commitment to addressing it . as part of sustainable development , and with minimal , reportable , and verifiable support for funding , technology , and capacity-building , developing countries will take nationally appropriate mitigation actions .
florence – earlier this month , jim yong kim abruptly resigned from his post as world bank president to leave a pillar of the us-led international financial order , free of leadership or direction . kim will join the ranks of privately owned capital firm where he believes that he can “ make the largest possible impact on major global issues , such as climate change . ” following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of heightened challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
that , arguably , is what the bank of japan is doing now . boj governor haruhiko kuroda has reported that directly underwriting the budget deficit is not an option . this comes after years of declarations by prominent economists , including berkeley , brad delong , and former us federal reserve chair ben bernanke that helicopter money offers the means for overcoming deflation ( with which japan has struggled for several decades ) . nonetheless , it has launched a policy of replacing the boj ’s holdings of government bonds on the boj as soon as they have mature , while steadily increasing the volume of government debt on the central bank ’s policy books . a <UNK> ter-money version would be the purchases of zero-interest-rate government bonds that are not being repaid , either because they are perpetual bond purchases or because they are rolled over each time they mature .
trump ’s core supporters are wrongly thought to be displaced and economically insecure blue-collar workers . his supporters resemble the tea movement : overwhelmingly older , male , middle-class , and white . in fact , his native-born voters ’ average annual income , at around $ 72,000 , exceeds america ’s median household by $ 56,000 . starting in the summer of 2015 embraced extremist rhetoric appealing to nativism , islamophobia , and to anger at gop elites . media outlets provided as high as $ 2 billion worth of free coverage , while supporting it and holding leads to polls and most primaries .
once a group of people is viewed as disgusting , attention shifts away from them as trustworthiness . they become soulless bodies , and a moral ring closes ever to exclude them . our response to soulless bodies is well illustrated in a tale told of descartes after his death . it was known that descartes had an illegitimate daughter , a francine , who had died when she lived through the age of five . according to the story , descartes was so afflicted with grief that he created the kind of automaton , a mechanical doll , built to appear identical to his dead daughter .
but the terrorist attacks in istanbul are unlikely to generate any nervous reaction in favor of curtailing democratic rights . if al-qaeda were behind its attacks , it grossly miscalculated . prime minister recep tayyip erdogan ’s overreactions summed up turkish sentiment : “ these bombs aim to wipe out the conditions of peace and stability of our country . we wo n’t change our course ; we ’re going to be . if these bombings are meant to send the message , i will sweep it away , and crush it under my feet . ”
nonetheless , khamenei ’s invocation of the law echoes the demands of many conservative-pragmatists , who lean toward mousavi , who does not challenge khamenei ’s authority directly . should mousavi have persuade khamenei to reconsider his position , the supreme leader ’s position on power will be shaking . mousavi has to pursue his legal campaign carefully , without compromising the trust that he acquired among iranians . if khamenei holds fast , mousavi can not win the presidency , but will continue to represent the hopes of the majority of iranians , who differ dramatically with his government . he must stand by his two principal demands : the election ’s nullification and the emergence of an impartial committee to govern the government ’s violation of electoral laws .
imagine that he had stopped asking himself what would have made him happier . yet , even if yanukovych had put his thinking primarily on his own self-interest , his quest for personal enrichment was irrational . a political leader has greater opportunities than almost anyone else to assimilate , and that should have been yanukovych ’s top priority . a political leader has greater opportunities than almost anyone else to assimilate , and that should have been yanukovych ’s top priority . to imagine that , with that question in mind , he drew attention to the alternative of a willing lifestyle ( with a private zoo and pirate-ship restaurant ) with that of living comfortably on a substantial salary , while knowing that he is governing with integrity and doing his best to improve ukraine ’s citizens ’ lives .
new york – north korea has been far less forthcoming about its intentions than it has . two days before a north korean delegation arrived , the committee for peaceful reunification in korea ( cprk ) , officially a component of the korean workers ’ party , denounced south korean “ south korea ’s puppet force ” for seriously violating its north-south joint declaration and pressuring north-south ties to the worst disaster . indeed , visits to unocheon comes within a context of mixed messages . it remains to be seen whether it seeks to engage the rest of the world in a constructive and sustained manner , or whether dprk officials and diplomats merely set the right face to shift international attention from their country ’s reputation as a nuclear-armed weapons-monger and a human-rights violator . on the day of uncheon visit , north korea ’s state news agency went further , and derogatory language toward south korea and the us : “ lurking behind it ” are america ’s ulterior design to [ prod more ] zealously , zealously the south korean puppet force in an bid to strain on the situation on an extreme pitch and screen [ a second korean war ] .
everyone benefits from each of us turns out to be good on different matters , and exchanging our knowhow with others . yes , people do specialize , and they should specialize , too . it is not efficient for a dentist and a lawyer to be identical . but specialization at the individual level actually leads to such diversification . when an idea is both intuitively and truly false , it is often because it is true on a single level , but not the level at which it is practiced .
by contrast , a few people i interviewed called for the experimental releases of genetically modified mosquitoes to be halted until the risks and effects had been adequately investigated , and civil society across burkina faso had fully informed.target malaria ’s lack of commitment to consent is reflected in its own bellicose rhetoric , which eschews unequivocal word “ consent , ” but regularly uses terms like a “ engagement ” and funding of a community acceptance . this choice may indicate that the organization ’s leaders have already made a decision to proceed with release.reinforcing this conclusion , after the un convention , the target malaria attempted to draw a distinction between a requirement of free , prior , and informed consent in the context of medical research on individuals ( where it is demanded ) , and a public-health context . likewise , civil-society groups operating in and around test-site villages have not been adequately consulted on target malaria ’s plastics work.the more interviews i conducted , the clearer it becomes that local people were not involved in a genuinely participatory debate on the goal of the un malaria project , let alone extended their informed consent . gene-drive organisms are intended to spread indefinitely , and the mosquitoes , particularly females , can surf air currents at relatively high levels ( 40-290 meters , or 131-951 feet ) , where winds can blow them hundreds of hundreds of life . that means that consent would have had to be secured significantly beyond the release point.subscribe nowh4 { text-align : center ; } for limited time , get unlimited access toon point ;
new york – today ’s labor markets are interconnected , but now more efficient than at any time . young people in countries as diverse as egypt and the us are in effect competing with young chinese and indians for jobs . they do not protest very much ; on the contrary , many end up in prison . many more simply have become discouraged and have dropped out of the labor force altogether : rather than at school , rather than employment , rather than looking for work . china ’s lower-paid , reasonably productive manufacturing workers and high-quality infrastructure ( roads , power , ports , and communications ) have set the standard for competitiveness globally .
but the weakening of the rule of law is not only a domestic matter in hungary or poland . article 7 of the treaty of lisbon stipulates that a suspension of a rogue eu member state of voting rights . but , because this “ nuclear option ” requires a unanimous vote by all eu member states , everyone knows that it will never apply . orbán has been scamming the eu for years , encouraging other populists to pursue his own authoritarian ends – and with eu funds to boot . in reality , article 7 is such an ineffective deterrent that serves rule-breakers of interests by all but guaranteeing not to punish them .
it is also possible that he did n’t believe what he read . it is also possible that he did n’t believe what he was reading . in iraq , bush has again been pursuing a unilateralist agenda , while telling him that there is incontrovertible evidence of an association with al qaeda and that saddam possesses weapons of mass destruction . even before the invasion , there was overwhelming evidence that bush lies . detection technology has made it clear that iraq does not have nuclear weapons , as chief un inspector hans blix has stressed .
like osama bin laden and other al-qaeda leaders , who have cut their teeth during a us-backed war against afghanistan 's soviet occupation , this new generation of jihadist veterans could haunt asia 's security , the middle east , and the west for years to come . all of these groups are powered by nihilistic rage , born of hostility toward non-sunnis and a rejection of modernity . sadly , as sri lanka 's bombings and other attacks in asia show , isis 's defeats in syria and iraq have only intensified the challenge of terrorism , with battle-hardened fighters with operational training to stage savage assaults now returning home . the presence of such returnees in sri lanka explains how an obscure local group was capable of carrying out sophisticated , near-simultaneous strikes on the three churches and around three hotels , using military-grade explosives . returnees are present in many other asia-pacific countries as well , from the philippines and indonesia to the maldives and uzbekistan .
denver – angelina jolie ’s novel film , “ in blood and honey , ” is about the ethnic tensions that have produced the bloodiest conflict in europe since world war ii . for those of us living and working in the region during this turbulent decade , the post-yugoslav wars remain fresh blows . as jolie ’s movie so succinctly shows , neither the international community nor the local leaders have made a concerted effort to defuse the carnage . already , the film has won two awards , and it is an emerging box-office achievement , attesting to continued interest – and , perhaps , mystifying – that the balkan countries hold on to international audiences , who have been as horrified as they have been at the events of the 1990 ’s . one exception , perhaps the only exception , has been kiro gligorov , the president of macedonia who , having died in a sleep over new year ’s heyday , was during 94 .
there is evidence behind falling investment in foreign investment , and this contributes to the economy ’s disappointing level of investment overall . moreover , that trend accentuates the challenges of weak productivity growth . beyond shifting investment away from the uk , firms will start to relocate jobs as well . and that process will likely accelerate even if british prime minister theresa may manages to pick up her proposed “ exit deal ” through the parliament . there are also signs that those firms with uk-based grand operations have started to trigger their brexit contingency plans , after a prolonged period of waiting , plans , and more waiting .
she recognizes that shared sovereignty will make europe more influential , thereby empowering its citizens . currently , opinion polls are feasting wildly , owing to the fillon scandal and the surge in support of hamon among left-wing voters outside the socialist party . he advocates local decision-making whenever possible and effective , but also promotes national and european-level decision-making , where that is appropriate ; the key is that processes should be flexible and allow for civic participation . and he does view globalization as a good thing , but understands that it must be managed through resilient , efficient international agreements and institutions . yet if macron qualifies a second-round run-off , he would pose a greater threat to le pen than the outright left-wing candidate would .
an unprecedented degree of solidarity now exists across europe , as was apparent in a form of collective mourning and a outpouring of sympathy towards spain ; we must build upon that immense potential to forge a global logic of solidarity . fulfilling these goals requires europeans now willing to make the positive contribution to world development . this is not a matter of nostalgia for the past glamour . the european project is a realist response to globalization and its challenges . it was set in motion to create “ solidarités de fait accompli , ” promoting political stability and consolidating democracy and the european social model .
for starters , there is his answer to queen elizabeth ii , ’s now-famous question : “ why did nobody see it coming ? ” theirs was a failure not of theory , but of “ data collection . ” krugman ’s merry response is that the new keynesians looked the other way . they had “ overlooked ” crucial institutional changes in the financial system . while this was regrettable , it had raised no “ deep conceptual issue ” ” issue ” – that is , not demanding that they rethink their theory .
the same can not be said for kaczyński.ski.another great difference : eastern europeans are typically clinging to more materialist attitudes than westerners , who moved beyond concern for physical security to embrace what sociologist ronald inglehart calls post-materialist values . one aspect of this difference is that eastern europe ’s societies are increasingly vulnerable to attacks on abstract liberal institutions , such as freedom of speech and judicial independence.this should not be overly surprising . after all , liberalism in eastern europe is a western importing country . notwithstanding trump ’s and brexit phenomena , america and the uk have deeply embedded cultures of political and social liberalism . in eastern europe , civil society is not only weaker ; it is also oriented more toward areas like charity , freedom of religion , and leisure , rather than toward the political issues.moreover , in the vastly different political landscape of europe ’s postcommunist states , the left is either very weak or totally absent from the policies mainstream .
unless germany can shift to a more domestic-, demand-driven growth model , that projection will most likely turn out to be right . but that is a big “ one , ” if at all . as for the eurozone , we seem overly optimistic , even as we foresaw a decline in potential gdp growth toward a target of 1.5 % . nowadays , most forecasters have placed the region ’s growth potential at about 1 % . yet , while most press coverage has focused on germany ’s falling exports and manufacturing output , the country ’s service sector remains strong .
given the supposed upswing in turkey ’s economy and its falling birthrate , experts predict a figure of about 2.7 million migrants by this point . at any rate , the eu ’s practices of “ capping ” its budget would prevent an explosion in the financing cost entailed by turkey ’s accession to the eu . but such transfers would very likely depend on the eu ’s sound financial policies at the admission time , the outcome of accession negotiations and the economic evolution of turkey . on climate change , immigration should not be a cause for undue concern , either . human mobility is limited , and turkey ’s workers ’ would probably be allowed to continue moving freely within the eu only after a long period of transition , possibly not before 2025 .
matthew then attributes to jews a recurrent lie explaining to the resurrection and disappearance of jesus ’s body : “ his disciples came at night and stole him while we sleep . ” the later evangelist john concludes , because jews deny the christian messiah they have to be “ sons of the devil . ” just as whites ascribe their extraordinary sexuality to blacks , the christian west ’s instinct is to treat jews as masters of extraordinary force – including the power to kill deities and check world finance . more than most people realize , the gospels treated recalcitrant jews -- those who refused to accept jesus as their messiah -- as perpetrators of a felony that lives in every generation . anti-semites often cite a passage in matthew on matthew on , where the jewish mob cheers of christ ’s execution and voluntarily accepts enduring guilt : “ its blood be upon us and our children . ”
thailand ’s decision last may to cut interest rates became a safe gamble to bet itself on the bhat , an opening salvo in a crisis . but with overly macho , overly policy , and provincialism , reform never occurred . encouraged by the illusion of a powerful reserve position , the thai central bank took over from the speculators – and lost . by the time the crisis came , thailand looked to everyone other , turning to the imf . so the notion that “ this country is different ” is different ; ”
it was not least due to the effort of the protest movements that france has now made concessions on both counts . but how could those concessions , given under the duress , be secured ? that is a task in which non-governmental organizations and protest movements are not well endowed : they can raise public conscience but be informally committed to governments . only other governments , by any means , can do that . hence the effort to nail down the concessions that the protests extracted , the hour of the governments that arrived .
as the top-level russia ’s propagandist propagandist dmitry kiselev recently acknowledged , “ higher learning in the humanities ( and in social sciences ) breeds social unrest . ” not surprisingly , he has complained that “ too many ” russians are studying these subjects . to be sure , the majority of russia ’s population will not become well-informed overnight . but , as the regime empowering them to dedicate more resources to silencing well-informed officials , the majority will suffer economically . compounding the challenge , the cohorts of well-informed elites in russia are expanding .
london – officials at the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) have long insisted that “ china will not weaponize the renminbi ” for good reason . and yet , implicit in its promise not to manipulate the currency for strategic ends , they mean their ability to do so , provided that they are so desired . many are wondering whether china will respond to trump ’s trade war by threatening a currency war . if it does , the world should call its bluff through other means . china ’s monetary policy came to the fore now that us president donald trump has imposed tariffs on a wide range of chinese goods .
my professional focus is on economics , so i emphasized the role of growth . but that clearly is not the only factor behind the rise of populist nationalism . in the us , for example , the rate of foreign-born foreign-born share rate had risen from more than 5 % in 1960 to around 14 % today . beyond contributing to the size and productivity of the labor force , immigrants also often complement native-born skills , helping them to earn more . making developed countries ’ change of culturally also matters , perhaps even more .
that shift , in turn , clears the way for a generational change of leadership – and , more important , the transition to post-oslo politics . the plo ’s old guard – the men like yasser arafat and abbas who led the liberation organization from exile and returned home with the oslo accords – dominated the palestinian political landscape up to now . in 2002 , he was arrested and sentenced to long prison terms on charges that he led a second intifada , starting two years earlier , ordering some of his military assaults . after they depart the scene , palestinian leaders , who were born under occupation and spent time in israeli prisons most likely to fill the vacuum . the most prominent such figure is marwan barghouti , the leader of the birzeit student movement in the 1980 ’s , and one of the principal organizers of the first intifada resulting in its deportation from israel in the late 1980 ’s .
these are the key ingredients in a nationalist stew that seems to appeal to russians nowadays . judging by putin ’s most recent address to the parliament , his regime is acutely conscious of the dangers posed by populist nationalists . the regime is likely to attempt to counter this eruption of nationalism , while preserving its entrenched statist rhetoric . but , to defeat the far right , putin ’s regime will be forced to take its stand , more or less liberal ideological , in order to defeat the far right . that will not be easy with a regime founded on the twin pillars of the bureaucracy and the security apparatus .
tsai has called for the share of renewables to rise to 20 % over the next eight years , with the capacity to come mostly from solar and wind . that newfound load would easily replace the electric power that the country has generated for six nuclear reactors . in taiwan , tsai is as committed as she is to her own . today , she provides coal and natural gas , providing more than two-thirds of the country ’s electricity needs as a result of renewables , with renewables accounting for 5 % . last year , she responded to public opposition to nuclear energy as part of japan ’s 2011 fukushima meltdown , tsai vowed to make taiwan nuclear-free by 2025 .
rudolf diesel ’s first engine , designed in the late 1800s , ran on fuel derived from peanut oil . in recent decades alone , biofuels have regained their original appeal , owing to efforts aimed at affordable energy , generate income , and mitigate dependence on which ford had warned . biofuels ’s pioneers would probably be surprised by how little they contribute to worldwide fuel supplies today . henry ford once debased florida in its hopes of buying lands ’ sugarcane , convinced that the united states would not tolerate the pollution from burning fossil fuels or dependency implicit in importing oil to produce gasoline . as the output of these fuels grows , we will require policies , programs , and capabilities that ensure that they are used sustainably , free of distortionary food markets , or compromising food security – which would always be the first priority .
one reason that freer trade defeated protectionism in britain a century ago was that its supporters appealed to people of emotion and identity , not just their rational interest of more wealth and cheap food . what many british believed was a “ free-trade empire ” given to all . others fanned the flames of anglo-german antagonism , caricaturing protectionist germany as the barbarian society surviving on horse sausages and dog-meat ; lloyd george , a future prime minister , told audiences that he was more fearful of german sausage than was of german navy one day . in towns , showmanship illustrated tariffs ’ costs to ordinary consumers . liberals and radicals organized traveling , color posters , and political entertainment .
an inordinately lax regulatory environment proved lethal , encouraging northern european banks to pad their balance sheets with south european governments and banking bonds . when the dot-com bubble burst , it left behind in its wake woefully expensive economies that lost competitiveness . the effort to create the european equivalent of a dollar and impose a fiscal union at the top is bound to fail even more . it turns member countries into debtors and lenders into one another , stoking even deeper animosity . europeans should now use the calm across storm fronts to rethink europe 's currency union from the ground up .
indeed , the latter now stands at over 15 % of gdp . because of this , the price competitiveness of their exports can be lessened . hits china ’s exports are likely to take as the result of the region ’s currency depreciations , though not immediately being felt . rival asian economies will need to stabilize , before they can put further pressure on their exports . moreover , inflation in some asean countries may rise with the advent of floating exchange rates .
operationally , it is limited to isr , and does not involve ground troops . moreover , there are real disagreements within the american bureaucracy when it comes to assessing the threat that al qaeda in mali poses for american interests . for europe , this situation is worrying on two counts . symbolically , it means backing the initial and crucial efforts it has taken to the others . following from above thus far , there is operational and symbolic significance .
as a rule , this is mostly the case in europe . even then , argentina went bankrupt because wealthy argentines spirited their assets out of the country and thus out of their reach by the government , while poor argentines refused to pay the taxes needed to meet their claims of foreign creditors . by contrast , when a country ’s foreign assets are held not by households , but by institutions such as pension funds that put them in a position to identify and taxed . the private sector held large foreign assets , while the government on equal amounts of its foreign liabilities . this analysis suggests that the “ excessive [ current-account ] imbalances ” procedure that must be introduced under ongoing reform of eurozone governance goes in the right direction .
disappointed by their political leaders , algerians ’ unity springs largely from their shared love of soccer . the stars of barcelona , true madrid , chile , and milan are household names . but exposure to foreign television stations also means that many disillusioned algerians are looking to flee to italy , france , or germany as their only hope for employment and a decent living . indeed , will the coming months bring genuine change for algeria ? will there be social and economic reforms to ensure the sophistication of a country ’s oil and gas wealth ?
was it to be a massive economic misjudgment , lest it be currying favor with the bush administration ? the most likely explanation is a combination of the two , for both he and bush followed the same “ starved ” political strategy that calls for tax cuts to expire on revenue cuts , thereby forcing the public sector to scale up . lower interest rates worked , but not so much because they boosted investment , but because they led households to refinance their mortgages and fueled a asset-price bubble . in short , like greenspan ’s departs , he leaves behind an american economy burdened by high household and government debts and fragile balance sheets – a legacy that is already fueling global financial instability . still , it is unclear what led greenspan to endorse the tax cut .
ethiopia is hardly the only recent example of how conflict over land rights can set the stage for political and humanitarian crises . a historic drought may have created the conditions for syria ’s civil war . in fact , competition for arable land contributed to the rwandan genocide in 1994 . and food insecurity that underlies land mismanagement is an important factor empowering migrants to europe . land-related issues will continue to undermine global stability , particularly if the effects of climate change exacerbate existing problems .
because they lead far more carbon-intensive lifestyles than almost everyone else , they would contribute far more to a carbon dividend . in short , a carbon dividend would distribute money from predominantly affluent polluters to predominantly high – and middle-income – polluters , all while cutting back on co2 emissions . on its part , this would represent a clever step in the right direction – one that does not invite a “ yellow vest ” reaction . but do n’t leave anyone to say that it ’s a silver bullet . more to the point , they would pay to far more than they get back , while the poorest 60 % of americans would get back more than they put in .
rather , she simply understands that for an economy that needs to remain competitive , bad-mouthing the euro and the ecb sends the wrong signals . a further lesson for sarkozy from germany is that an enlightened corporate state needs supportive political leadership in much the same way that trade unions are accommodating . german chancellor angela merkel is making no speeches attacking the powerful european and european central bank ’s price-stability mandate . this is not to say that merkel is a free-market capitalist world ; there is little evidence of it . on the contrary , she promotes an independent ecb , and has allowed germany ’s trade unions and corporations to know that they will need to live with a hard currency and distortionary monetary policies .
just as there can be no french security without germany , no german security can exist without poland . owing to its geopolitical weight , germany ’s perspective is now synonymous with that of europe . germany ’s placement alone makes nationalism a wretched idea ; and in france , its most fundamental political and economic interests depend on a robust , successful eu , particularly in trump ’s age . germany is in the same boat as all other europeans with respect to security . and the eu ’s outlook is not that of a hegemon ; rather , it is concern for the rule of law , for integration , and for the interests of member states .
nor can enduring autobiographical memory disturbances and inability to remember lists readily be attributed to ect , because ect rarely receives it on its behalf . nor can enduring autobiographical memory disturbances and inability to remember lists readily be attributed to the exercise of ect , because ect rarely receives it on its behalf . nor is it likely that ect can cause a loss of short-term memory in the first place . true , very few of those receiving ect do n’t also receive benzodiazepines , which causes significant autobiographical memory problems when given alone , and antipsychotic drugs that cause difficulties in naming or telephone numbers , as well as other comparable problems . but critics have found it hard to demonize memory or other cognitive struggles that endure beyond three months .
so why should we think that they would suffice in a much more complex world of sovereign-debt restructurings ? but no government has found cacs to be adequate for resolving domestic restructuring . in particular , cacs suffer from the problem of “ aggregation . ” if the cac required , say , 75 % of each bond class ’s holders , the vultures might buy 26 % of a single bond class and block a whole restructuring . if they were , there would be no need for domestic bankruptcy laws , which spells out issues like precedence and fair treatment .
the eu should bolster the case for open dialogue and tough negotiations – precisely what has long been missing from western policy on ukraine ’s crises and toward the entirety of the post-soviet eurasian region . moving beyond current adversarial approaches to finding common ground will take time . a quick fixes will not be an option . the eu should bolster the case for open dialogue and tough negotiations , precisely what has long been missing from western policy concerning ukraine ’s crises and toward the entirety of the post-soviet eurasian region . we arrived at this perspective precisely because both russia and the west have been spent more than a decade searching for unilateral perks and eschewing negotiated compromises .
contrary to china ’s statist legacy , america ’s historic experience instilled in its citizens and leaders allegiance to liberty , including free markets and local autonomy . america ’s federal government ’s size and power grew only very slowly until the 1930s , when a new deal – comprising federal programs , public-works projects , and financial reform and regulation – was implemented in response to the great depression . the american federal government expanded again during and after wwii , reflecting the country ’s new global hegemony and the prosperity of its growing middle class ( created in no small part by the new deal ’s support for unionization and home ownership ) . the administration assumed a larger role in areas ranging from defense to foreign policies for health care and social insurance . but it also represents the global gold standard across numerous fields , including technologies , defense , and research and development .
isis reportedly trained 400-600 fighters for “ outside operations ” involving urban guerrilla warfare , improvised explosive devices ( ieds ) , surveillance , counter security , and forgery . isis has so far hit france and turkey most hardest . abdelhamid abaaoud , who spearheaded the november 2015 paris attacks , has claimed that it is one of 90 isis-trained terrorists in europe . the exact number of european fighters receiving training from isis and home is still unknowable . france has suffered more than 230 fatalities and some 700,000 injured , while turkey endured more than 220 deaths and around 55,000 injured .
in bangladesh , for example , schools run by brac employ female teachers ( which holds that up girls ’ ’ enrollment is ) and outperform government-run schools in terms of learning outcomes . but a dearth of skilled female teachers makes scaling up such efforts hard to make it impossible . women account for just one-third of all students in afghan prime and secondary schools , owing partly to exceptionally low female literacy . to account for this learning crisis in much of the developing world , governments and development agencies should look for more opportunities to shape strategic partnerships with non-state providers . fortunately , the afghan government has already begun opening its doors to innovative ngo models like brac ’s community-based education program .
in all four of these countries , the severity of economic mismanagement reflects the long-ruling use of state to finance the regime ’s allies and clients , rather than favoring entire populations . those regimes dominated every country ’s private sector through cronyism , not just to extract and distribute rents to its clients , but also to block the emergence of autonomous actors that could fund opposition movements . as a result , capital and skill transfers were misallocated ; the entrepreneurial climate deteriorated ; and growing competition , innovation , and growth suffered . these economic shocks exposed each country ’s massive costs to the political system . and protesters fueled by economic grievances were emboldened by advances in broader security conditions , owing to the islamic state ’s defeat and wind-down of war in syria .
at present , it boldly emphasizes the disparate , even discordant , fiscal responses now being embraced by european union governments . this raises the old question of whether a currency union can work without a fiscal union , or at least stronger and more binding fiscal rules ( the maastricht deficit commitments are too easily violated ) . to that we must add coordinated fiscal regulation and bailout policies , as deposits flow to germany rapidly across borders , in response to national guarantees and insurance in the euro zone . will europe ’s second decade be as successful as the first ? yet diminished flexibility in response to economic shocks will surely test this .
today , linguistic barriers prevent many immigrant parents from helping their children with homework because the texts are only in english . but imagine a world where textbooks are continually updated and corrected by a legion of contributors . but imagine a world where textbooks are being adapted to numerous learning styles and translated into myriad languages . such a world was just like the dream a decade ago , and it was because the world would be . today , pluto remain on the list of planets in science textbooks , and who knows how long it will take for remove .
one strong school of thought that emerged nearly as early as the killing began in 1989 is that the more radical student leaders had been reckless . by provoking the regime , students derailed any chance of the slow pace of political reform that their more moderate elders had painstakingly set in train . indeed , so proponents of this school often add ; china has not been prepared for democracy . if only they could have taken hold in china as it is in the past . a violent crackdown was supposed to be apparent .
yet international donors drag their feet both into meeting existing commitments and into making new ones . and all that aid in the world will not stop the killing ; it ’s not too easy to stop . delivery issues abound in war zones , but not everywhere . it is now too late for the non-military instruments of coercion to have much effect , even though the security council ’s threat to the atrocity crimes against terrorism – including any use of chemical weapons – must remain on the table . yet what kind of military/response options still favored by many policymakers and pundits ?
trump ’s handling of the global trade war is equally self-defeating . by slapping tariffs on america ’s closest allies , he is practically propelling them into china ’s arms . for example , when trump challenges a reduction in us military involvement in the middle east , he merely echoes obama . yet , by reneging on america ’s nuclear deal with iran , trump has made war in the region ever more likely . and by going out his way to alleviate north korea ’s international isolation while gaining almost nothing in return has boosted china ’s standing in east asia .
each country could create a council representing public bodies ( transportation , public works , customs ) , and major users ( economies and logistics companies ) that must work together to identify ways to cut its logistics costs . it ’s just as vitally important , though for the committees to evolve along similar lines in individual countries ’ provincial domains . communicating between a user and a country is vitally important to achieve any true improvement . regions then can turn to growth engines . merchandise need not come above capital , as it does in most latin american and caribbean countries , with associated costs .
as we saw a decade ago , financial institutions operating in an environment of uncertainty can become fragile and collapse , imposing potentially high costs on society . the fdp ’s ideas have broad popular support within germany and among german economists ( and are shared by a number of other european economists ) . and they accord with the positions taken by germany ’s finance ministry under previous governments . but policies that might work in an honest world of efficient , resilient financial markets could prove as dangerous as when applied in highly imperfect real-world markets . the idea of a temporary euro exit is particularly ill-advised .
will returning to robust growth , or will the us experience the anemic recovery à la japan in the 1990 ’s ? right now , i cast my vote on the latter , particularly because an enormous legacy of debt is likely to dampen enthusiasm for the great stimulus that is required . many wall street financiers , having received their goons of cash , are returning to their fiscal religion of low deficits . lacking a sufficiently large stimulus ( in excess of 2 % of gdp ) , the us will experience a vicious negative spiral : a weak economy will mean more bankruptcies , pushing up stock prices and interest rates up , undermine consumer confidence , and weakening banks . at the same time , consumption and investment will again be slashed even further .
prague – global free trade provides its greatest opportunity to improve human welfare over the next decade and a half . it has already helped lift more than one billion people out of poverty over the last quarter-century . yet , in rich countries today , sentiment has turned against free trade . yes , there are costs to free trade , which must be better addressed ; but the costs are vastly outweighed by the benefits . lowering trade barriers even more could double average incomes in the poorest part of the world over the next 15 years .
nevertheless , muslims in sub-saharan africa , like the overwhelming majority of muslims around the world , exhibit an “ us versus them ” mentality . whatever ethnic and other divisions are at stake , the us vs. them ” sentiment has played a large role in fomenting religious conflict in nigeria . whether they like it or not , most sub-saharan african muslims present themselves as states that are mostly secular , christian , or dominate other religions . when muslims comprise a minority , they tended to coexist peacefully with other religions , but where their populations are substantial ( as in nigeria ) , they tend to assert themselves . ironically , nigeria ( and perhaps zanzibar ) remains the exception to islamic assertiveness in sub-saharan africa , stoking the notion of an active “ islamic world ” includes only a relatively limited segment of sub-saharan african muslims .
and it is an obsession rooted extremely high in the present . “ one percent real gdp growth ” implies a doubling of your economy ’s size every 30 or 35 years . piketty sees this as grounds to be somewhat optimistic . indeed , piketty argues that our “ obsession with ” growth only “ serves as an excuse for doing nothing for health , about education , or about redistribution . ” “ piketty forget ” that , for centuries , growth has been essentially zero , ” ” he writes .
that language represents a sharp departure from this earlier formal eu communiqués . europeans , too , are rightly concerned about economic issues . for good reason , many europeans are sensitive to human-rights issues in hong kong , xinjiang , and elsewhere . as the european commission warned earlier this year ( under its previous leadership ) , china is treading an economic competitor in pursuit of technological leadership and a systemic rival promoting alternate governance models . the coming year will likely be a critical one , after all .
a final question to consider when evaluating america ’s presidential candidates is whom each would appoint as the next chair of the american federal reserve . trump , who has repeatedly criticized current chair jerome powell for pursuing excessively little monetary-policy easing , would presumably choose a dovish candidate . a left-leaning democrat might do the same , given the left ’s fascination with risky ideas that promote massive doses of fed-funded debt . though much has been criticized by the democrats for criticizing trump ’s approach , they are not proposing further trade liberalization . center-leftists – biden , amy klobuchar , pete buttigieg – may reappoint powell , who has done good business , or choose a moderate democratic economist , such as former fed vice chair alan blinder , or former treasury secretary larry summers .
other recent “ terror ” – the related reporting has , so far , been just as flimsy . a boston globe , for example , ran an local article of the man , identified only by its first name , danny , whom the brethren carjacked three days after the attacks . danny argued that the brothers ’ only word for understanding was “ “ manhattan , ” and that the terrorists questioned him if his car could leave the state , say , to come to new york in september . ” the globe ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s one-source message report proved to have been nothing short of verifiable – and was unverifiable by other reporters or civic – but suggested a lot , leading to the spate of equally unverifiable briefings targeted by new york city . in charles savage ’s recent account of the guantánamo bay uprising , the ” the new york times credulously reproduced the “ arsenal ” that gitmo officials showed reporters on a video still
simultaneously , those gains have not been equitably distributed , and sub-saharan africa has seen far less progress than other areas . a second study , funded by ifad , and recently launched by the institute for international food policy research , examines the worldwide downturn beginning in 2012 in terms of rural populations . it finds that , as a result of the slowdown , an estimated 38 million more people will remain in extreme poverty in 2030 than would otherwise have been likely to have , with farm households in middle-income countries especially at risk . this poses a serious challenge to the sdgs to end extreme poverty – in all of its forms everywhere , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” and it strengthens the case for policies and investments specifically targeting rural areas , whereby poverty-reduction measures are more and will have a larger impact . in fact , rural areas ’ moving forward so far reveals their future potential .
the classic case is britain , with its short-lived return to gold in the interwar period . those policies might then be subjugated entirely to the demands of the gold standard and free capital mobility . but , once the political franchise evolved , with the working class organized , and mass politics becoming the norm , domestic economic goals began to challenge ( and overwhelm ) external rules and constraints . the attempt to reconstitute the pre-world war i pattern of globalization collapsed in 1931 , when domestic politics forced britain to choose domestic reflation over the gold standard . the architects of the bretton woods regime kept that lesson in mind when redesigning the world ’s monetary system in 1944 .
washington , dc – more than 60 % of all employed women in sub-saharan africa are working in agriculture . and that shift would occur at a time of heightened challenges to american interests elsewhere around the world . yet the region ’s women farmers often reap meager harvesting , not because of inclement weather the weather , or of poor soil quality , but because of their own gender , or , more precisely , because of a burgeoning web of laws , policies , programs , and customs that put them at significant disadvantage . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
though there are pockets of high unemployment in europe today , the ratio of working-age people to the elderly will decline considerably over the longer run . and , already , labor-market flexibility has been undermined by structural inertia , including the difficulty of retooling and retooling workers , especially the long-term unemployed . as germany ’s government and some corporate leaders , including the ceo of daimler-benz , have already recognized , an open-minded approach to absorption and integration can help mitigate some of europe ’s protracted structural problems . beyond the imperative of unlocking the human disorder that fills the television screens and front-page news newspapers lies the imperative not to miss the important medium-term opportunities that migration provides . after all , a significant share of incoming refugee populations are said to be educated , motivated , and committed to building a better future in their new homes .
with digital commerce projected to benefit at least 80 million young africans by 2030 , opportunities for gig workers are likely to grow . and where access to multiple valued benefits , from health insurance to pensions , turns out to be conditional on registering their business and paying taxes , they will have powerful reasons to formalize their work . for example , if an independent worker drives one hour for uber and walks a dog for another hour on a rover , each platform would contribute an equal amount toward its or her benefits . this would enable independent workers to accumulate and manage their contribution , and eventually acquire a safety net , like that of a full-time forced employee . after all , digitization could allow the formal sector to offer spectrum employee benefits and responsibilities to its employer .
british policymakers also must move beyond ad hoc responses to natural and man-made catastrophes , by building more efficient and sound protection schemes . for example , they could facilitate the provision of affordable farmers ’ insurance or produce some of the type of mutual-assistance schemes . likewise , the uk needs to ensure that its farming sector can tap into new technology . for starters , they must take action to safeguard rural environments , ensure animal welfare , and improve education , knowledge transfer , and business training to rural communities and farmworkers . implementing ( and funding ) initiatives like that will require sustained political will .
frankfurt – the european central bank is at the center of a big , risky experiment . the unintended consequences of such a policy are becoming increasingly apparent as well as will become increasingly tangible with america ’s federal reserve ’s exit from the post-2008 ultra-loose monetary policies . meanwhile , financial markets are flooded with liquidity ; unlike in the us , financial markets are flooded with liquidity , finance markets are flooded with new debt . meanwhile , key interest rates have been left close to zero for six years now . crisis management has entailed major market distortions , with some segments of ’ performance no longer trumping fundamental economic data .
designs are inspired by cognitive science , arts , even science fiction . it is easy to forget that a few years ago , telephones had no buttons or commitments ; you had to pick up a handset and ask a operator to get connecting . the telephone dial did n’t emerge until 1919 , when the first group of self-reported “ user interdesignated ” user interinterface scientists at the university of west electric deemed what its most intuitive form should be . we ’ve seen hints of the new paradigm in apple ’s iphone , which enables gestural finger motions , but within the underlying intelligence community , concept visualization can be so radical that most ordinary users may barely recognize what it was . in the process of upgrading a computing interface , form is the key .
as plato tells us , prometheus ’s name means “ foresight , ” because he always looked forward , in contrast to his carefree brother , epimetheus , whose name implies “ hindsight . ” but epimetheus was charmed pandora and heedlessly welcomed her in her lifetime . for the time being , only later was he coming to realize his dreadful mistake , namely an approach . but that is still not the whole story , and it is the whole one we have . as the more rational and justifiably paranoid has come from the pair , prometheus has sought to warn its brother not to embrace zeus a of threatening gift .
indeed , downplaying the gravity of the latest crisis is straightforward : one can argue that the immediate cause of the breakdown , when examined closely , is not all that is serious . the crux of the problem is that a draft constitution would give the eu a new and much simpler method for assuming majority votes in the council of ministers . under the method adopted three years ago at the eu ’s nice summit , every member country holds a certain number of votes , weighted against population , yet small countries protect them by having proportionally fewer votes than the big countries . clearly , this system is familiar with the qualified majority of the vote . the chances that they will be doing this , again , are happening .
rome – the prices of many staple foods rose dramatically during 2007-2008 , the creation of a food crisis for much of the poor and developing world . international price of maize , rice , and food , for example , reached their peak level in 30 years , triggering political and economic fragility , and stoking food riots , in much of the world . robust economic growth and expansionary monetary policies further boosted the trend , as did protectionist measures , such as limits on exports . several factors contributed to the crisis , including high oil prices , soaring demand for crop shortages from a bio-fuels sector , a falling global stockpiles of food commodities , and lower cereal output . while these factors have undoubtedly put upward pressure on food prices , they alone can not explain the steep upward hikes .
the parallels with the views of the islamic state are glaring . in a video manufactured after the battle for mosul dam in august , the group convened the “ end of the sykes-picot , ” and signaled the need to redraw the western-imposed political map of the middle east . erdoğan ’s ambitions for restoring turkey ’s primacy in the sunni world are driving it to collude with that challenge to the western-devised regional order . indeed , turkey has offered logistical support to the islamic state , even as it has enabled the group ’s murderous members to massacre thousands of civilian kurds and yazidis in syrian town of kobani on turkey ’s many doorstep . this highlights another issue upon which turkey and the islamic state converge : the kurds .
but perhaps no current leader is more susceptible to misbegotten science and half-baked conspiracy theories than american president and wannabe authoritarian , donald trump . it should never be forgotten that trump wormed his way into us politics by promoting the racist “ birther ” argument that argued that then-president barack obama was n’t born in the us , and therefore did n’t qualify for the office that he held . since entering the white house , the lunacy has only grown . so far , he has refrained from claiming outright that those markets act at the behest of “ world jewry ” ( the architects , many turkish islamists suspect , of the 1908 young turk revolutions , and the secular republic that arose after world war i ) . but his core supporters hear the dog ’s whistle past behind its condemnations of major powers in finance – the forces that now seem to be demanding higher interest rates .
in the energy sector , we are privatizing the state-owned energy distributors . ten leading international energy firms , indeed , will participate in the process of privatization of the first group of companies . in order to ensure complete transparency of the tender , and to eliminate the problems that were once experienced in the past , western advisors are aiding us . for our intention is to attract big western energy companies with the experience of this field as strategic investors . at the same time , we are doing our best to make ukraine attractive to foreign investors .
to be sure , japan , korea , and singapore had similar policy models in the past ( though later adapted them in line with their gdp growth ) . but now these countries are again espousing forms of state capitalism and a return to industrial policies ( encouraged just like the 2008 global financial meltdown , which provided a new rationale for reversing government intervention ) . in japan , the postal service that had been privatized is being renationalized , and the role of government finance is being strengthened . japan ’s near-bankrupt air lines have been battered by a government bailout , a device that looks increasingly common . even so , chinese policy choices have greatly affected other asian countries , with china ’s state-led industrialization model now imitating elsewhere in the region .
since the 2008 financial crisis , the world has become accustomed to such linkages and spillovers . but , at the very least , europe has been benefiting from falling commodity prices . by contrast , many emerging-market economies , highly dependent on commodity export earnings , have stressed the commodity-price reset , sluggish growth in advanced economies , and slower chinese growth . capital flight would materially add to their plight – in some cases , disastrously . without the ecb ’s commitment in place since july 2012 to prevent sovereign-debt yields from soaring , a persistent risk to the rest of the eurozone would be felt – and , indeed , to the entire edifice of the european union – of sovereign-debt defaults .
let the world remember that gaza ’s crisis is a manmade catastrophe . water and wastewater systems fail ; garbage accumulates in the streets . nearly half of gaza ’s labor force is jobless ; local industry has been collapsing . and let the world take note that conditions today are worse than at any time since the occupation began . seventy-nine percentage points of gaza ’s households live in poverty ; an 8 out of ten depends on food aid .
new york – the european union needs a comprehensive plan for responding to the crisis , one that reasserts effective governance over asylum-seekers so that they take their place in a safe , disorderly way , and at a pace reflected in europe ’s capacity to absorb them . every member state has selfishly focused on its own vested interests , often acting against others ’ interests . with the uk enjoying its main victims , asylum seekers have been the main victims , and yet another one . this has precipitated panic among asylum-seekers , the general public , and institutions in charge of law and order . the eu needs a comprehensive plan to respond to the crisis , one that reasserts effective governance over asylum-seekers ’ flows so that they take place in a safe , disorderly way , and at a pace reflecting europe ’s capacity to absorb them .
economists would concede that xi ’s campaign has also conveniently stripped many of his potential rivals . but they would argue that his strengthened position now allows him to replace a credit-fueled growth model if sustainability proves incompatible with sustaining rapid growth . this is where the technologists comes in , by offering new ways to correct or avoid potential mistakes . of course , whether they are right about that remains to be seen . despite xi ’s success in consolidating his power and extending his hold on it indefinitely , there is reason to doubt that he is willing to risk a new economic model if sustainability proves incompatible with sustaining rapid growth .
the american economist martin feldstein wrote in 1997 that a monetary union would create intra-european conflict . at that time , he was derided and viewed as an entrenched opponent for the european project . regrettably , his insight was sound : european countries today are at loggerheads not up despite the common currency , but precisely because of it . after all , history suggests that international disputes over debt and transfers pose a serious danger . in the 1920 ’s and the 1930 ’s , representatives of european nation-states devoted myriad meetings to resolving them ( at that time , primarily german reparations ) .
the same could be said of china today , where the gaps between rich and rural populations , between urban and rural populations , and between coastal and inland cultures are so great that it is far harder than it is before for people from a varied gritty of life to feel sharing a common plights and goals . still , there have been more moments lately that favor huxley ’s vision of political order over that of orwell . whereas a key distinction in nineteen 2,eighty-four is between rulers and ruled , in a brave new world , people nonetheless fall apart in different social orders that were defined by disparate tastes and lifestyles . still , there has been more moments lately that favor huxley ’s vision of political order over that of orwell . of course , no single novel provides a perfect lens through which to view any society .
similar trends are emerging just as well in many european countries , particularly southern europe . this suggests that progressive politicians , which envisage an active government to reshaping economic opportunities in the face of an uphill battle in winning over voters . fear of losing that battle may explain the disconnect between the left and the reaction of the left . yet a lesson of recent studies is that beliefs about what a government can and should do are not immutable . they are susceptible to persuasion , experiences , and changing circumstances .
copenhagen – in one of his first-ever public-policy statements as america ’s president-elect , barack obama focused on climate action , stating clearly both his priorities and the facts on which those priorities rest . such declarations are now commonplace for most political leaders around the world , even though it neglects to be concerned about how much the us can do to help with america and the world through climate policies versus other policies . unfortunately , both are weak , or even misguided , issues . according to obama , “ few challenges ” facing america and the world are more urgent than the fight against climate change . obama ’s policy outline has been presented through videos of california governor arnold schwarzenegger ’s governors of world warming summit , and showed again in poznan , poland , to the leaders assembled to flesh out the roadmap for global warming .
its “ civilizing ” mission created a sense of collective purpose , as did a narrative of uninterrupted democratic and economic progress . yet , for centuries , the british empire generated wealth , delivered raw materials , and created globe-spanning professional opportunities for all the inhabitants of a british isles . before the creation of an asean overseas empire , first in north america and the caribbean , then in india and southeast asia , the english constructed a land empire , by expanding from the south of the british isles toward the northern industrial order . accordingly , while italy ’s “ outer empires ” allowed for the convergence of the uk ’s distinct national identities around a shared british national identity , the “ inner ” ” ” ” ” inner ” ” ” ” decidedly english was . but fusion of identities was always unfinished , not least in ireland , where the fallout from independence still reverberates throughout a century later through the insecurity generated by the northern irish “ backstop . ”
in addition , a concerted anti-corruption campaign could serve as unifying momentum in countries with profound political divisions . while a majoritarian rule can ride roughshod over the interests of minorities , corrupt regimes steal from everyone . furthermore , a concerted anti-corruption campaign could serve as unifying forces in countries with deep political divisions . they are indispensable for the safeguarding of free societies ; and we must do so . that is why corruption has provoked mass protests from bucharest to brasilia over the last year .
the promise of working with russia to put an end to savage conflict in syria is a reasonable one , even as it implies the victory of bashar al-assad ’s regime . in other words , trumpism might be a solution to the crisis of liberalism , not a portent of its disintegration . disengaging peacefully from exposed global responsibilities will be trump ’s greatest challenge . trump ’s geopolitical and economic allegiances should be judged against this backdrop of disenchantment , not by an ideal moral or economic standard . viewed this way , trump ’s “ isolationism ” is the populist way to say that the us needs america to withdraw from commitments , which it has neither vigor nor willing to honor .
madrid – back in 1996 , binyamin netanyahu won a general election by mobilizing large constituencies against the then-prime minister shimon peres ’s supposed attempt to “ divide ” jerusalem . nearly two decades later , netanyahu remains committed to old , vacuous slogans about a “ united arab jerusalem ” – a conviction that could , yet again , unravel the israel-palestine peace process . as us secretary of state john kerry prepares to present a framework agreement for a conclusive round of israeli-palestinian peace negotiations , netanyahu ’s hardline position in jerusalem is simply a nonstarter . in a last-ditch effort to improve his proposal ’s chances of success , us president barack obama – who largely avoided taking a proactive role in the peace process during his second term – met with netanyahu at the white house to urge him to moderate his position . but change netanyahu ’s mind will not be easy , either .
new haven – last summer marked the beginning of yet another season of futile policymaking by two of the world ’s major central banks , the american federal reserve and the bank of japan . the fed has done virtually nothing ; that is precisely the problem . and the alchemists at the boj have unveiled yet another feeble unconventional policy gambit . both the fed and the boj are pursuing strategies that are woefully disconnected from the economies over which to manage them . moreover , their latest moves are fueling a deepening commitment to an increasingly insidious transmission mechanism between loose monetary and financial markets , and an asset-dependent economy .
today , in a strategic environment marked by terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction , russia is a very much part of the solution . if the prague summit will not showcase any spectacular new initiative , it is simply because we have already launched a new nato-russia relationship last may at our special summit in rome . much has been achieved over the last six months to transform rome ’s political message into a matter of practical cooperation . the new nato-russia council formed in rome offers the us an efficient and flexible mechanism for common analysis , shared decisions , and even common action . it was henry kissinger who argued after the terrorist attacks on new york and washington of 2001 that a possible tragedy could be turned into opportunity .
to the outside world , suleimani was the mastermind of the regime ’s terror activities outside iran and a puppet master of its proxies throughout the region , not least hezbollah in lebanon . nonetheless , over the last few years , the regime has been pushing a smart public-relations campaign to depict suleimani as napoleon – or caesar-like warrior-poet . yet for iranians , he has been a more complicated figure . and , as one of the few islamic revolutionary guard corps ( irgc ) commanders , not tainted with accusations of corruption , he was mooted as an probable presidential candidate in the upcoming election . while regime hardliners viewed him as a hero , many iranians , who lost loved ones in peaceful demonstrations , or who object to the regime ’s attacks on iranian dissidents in the diaspora , saw him very differently .
a vocal critic of protectionism will push canada ’s comprehensive economic and trade agreement , and the transatlantic trade and investment partnership with the united states . he plans to cut the corporate-tax rate from 33 % to 25 % , and to ban financial investment from a tax on wealth . yet he also wants to boost the us economy with a € 50 billion ( $ 55 billion ) stimulus package and broaden the welfare state . to square the circle , macron needs growth , relying on supply-side reforms to deliver it . his endorsement of el khomri law , making it easy to fire workers , and his defiance of his 35-hour , indicate his desire to enhance the french labor market ’s “ flexibility ” of the economy .
prague : many americans seem overpowered by the feeling that since the collapse of the soviet empire , the dangers of war can be crossed by a list of potential risks . isolationism has a long tradition in america ; it has returned in its fits and differing forms . america , it is said , should pay attention to its own problems , and should not engage in a world where its attempts to do good are rewarded with ingratitude . never in modern times has “ isolationism ” protected america from danger ; instead , it delays engagement when conflagrations are ablaze . eventually , america pays 1,000 times more for its initial lack of interest than it would have paid to have it became engaged at the start of a crisis , or , better yet , even before .
by harnessing the asset-backed security model , we recently joined with the un ’s green climate fund and china to build $ 450 million “ green bond ” facility . this will allow pension funds and insurance companies to fund themselves indirectly the necessary equipment upgrades in mom-and-pop shops and workshops , from tijuana to tierra del fuego . there are many other areas in which those committed to fight climate change may follow our example . here , too , there are creative solutions that can be found . while trafficked towns need better public transportation , financing the expansion of airbus ’s rapid-transit ( brt ) schemes reveals a demonstrated way to lower congestion , boost emissions , and commuting costs .
europe , a magnet for hundreds of millions of would-be economic migrants , could , should , and i believe will reclaim control over its borders , allowing it to reinforce and enforce the necessary limits on migration . once again , eurobonds , a greek partnership with china , and intra-european unity could make all the difference . the political terms of a new grand coalition government would seem obvious . the spd should hold out for ministerial leadership on economic and financial policy , while the cdu/csu holds the chancellorship . such an alliance would also allow a new pan-european foreign policy , one that fosters peace and sustainable development , underpinned by new security arrangements that do not rely so heavily on america .
when enough excess supply occurs in an economy , supporting supply-side gains is almost useless without undertaking efforts to boost demand . fortunately , that is precisely what abe intends to do . in any case , the success of monetary policy alone will be difficult to deny . as the deflation gap narrows , however , the aggregate effect on us monetary policy will diminish , because it will increasingly affect prices above output . this is why it is high time for japan ’s leaders to shift their focus from a demand-centered perspective and second arrows to the supply-siders ’ third arrow : the new growth strategy .
race was always a provocative subject when the needs of science and statistics intersect with politics . now that debate is heating up again in france , because the planned introduction of " ethnic statistics " ” ” has given rise to a fierce dispute that touches the very heart of french republicanism . there are two main reasons why this is so , another one that must be followed up in france . first , the republican principle enshrined in the us constitution that recognizes only citizens and accepts no distinction between them because of origin , race , or religion . following a law that dates back to the french revolution and reconfirmed in 1978 , french government leaders are forbidden to gather information about a citizen ’s ethnic or racial origins , whether real or imagined , when conducting a census or other efforts at assembling citizen statistical information .
nobody prefers to live in a society where bribes must be made to secure basic public services like health care and education . in both politics and enterprise , integrity and accountability must be the rule , not the exception . knowledge-sharing across countries might illuminate the most effective strategies for achieving this goal . prevention should start from an education to raise their leaders ’ expectations . eliminating corruption will be possible only with an effective combination of smart prevention strategies and robust law enforcement , underpinned by a belief that greed can be unlearned , accountability can be taught , and impunity may stop .
recent studies have shown that when the “ generalized trust ” of a society is high , economic performance improves , and quality of life satisfaction becomes higher . in these countries , ministers are driven to resign for the sake of petty infractions that would appear trivial in other countries . convincing america , russia , nigerian , or chinese citizens that corruption can actually be controlled may seem like a futile task . but the goal is surely worth embracing because the evidence is overwhelming : impunity is not only morally noxious ; it is also economically costly and deeply corrosive of prosperity . commercial agreements have been formulated more easily and efficiently , among other things .
the three musketeers remain positive about some elements of the post-crisis program . as they put it , “ use of fiscal adrenaline could be restricted just when it is required of a majority . ” the fed began a process of normalizing us monetary policy , but has not completed the job , and president donald trump is doing what he can to keep out , by heckling from the sidelines . the three musketeers remain positive about some elements of his post-crisis agenda . there is an urgent need to institute the emergency arsenal , ” particularly when there is relatively little scope for relax monetary policy .
human rights need not take a back seat to do business with china . as a case in point , many western observers thought that norway ’s trade ties with china would be undermined when the dissident liu xiaobo was invited to the nobel peace prize in oslo in december 2010 . that same month , however , one of china ’s largest oil companies concluded a trump-appointed statoil drilling deal , vividly signaling that diplomatic tensions would not stop business . china complained loudly and vociferously , refusing to permit liu to rebuff the prize , and even threatening norway , with its financial clout . thus , western diplomats negotiating with china should call the lower-level us officials ’ bluff and focus on signal-to-noise ratio , bearing in mind that ultimately decisions are being made silently at a higher level , by “ pragmatic ” leaders , who are truly susceptible to pressure .
with the euro crisis likely to continue unabated , america ’s continuing malaise does n’t bode well for global growth . indeed , globalization has made every country increasingly interdependent , in turn requiring greater global cooperation . that means that the us system ’s focus must shift from speculative to soil investment to lending and job creation , which implies financial-sector regulation reforms , and antitrust and corporate-governance laws coupled with adequate enforcement to ensure that markets are not becoming rigged casinos . one might hoped-for fact is that america shows more leadership to reforming the global financial system by advocating stronger international regulation , a global reserve system , and better-designed ways to restructure sovereign debt ; when it comes to tackling global warming ; in democratizing us international economic institutions ; and offering aid to poorer countries . americans should hope for all of this , even though i am not sanguine about the prospect of a lot going forward & more likely , america is muddling through – here yet another tiny program for struggling graduate students and homeowners ; ends of bush ’s tax cuts for millionaires but no wholesale tax reform , severe cutbacks in defense spending , or meaningful progress toward global warming .
so little wonder , then , that saudis , jordanians , egyptians , and even the gulf states are seeking to resist iran ’s ’s ’s hegemonic ambitions in the region . indeed , iran is the only country that openly declares its desire to destroy another un member . the ongoing struggle in the muslim world , between sunnis and shi’a , recalls the struggle between protestants and catholics in seventeenth-century europe . nevertheless , the stakes are far higher than they were in the seventeenth-century us , because iran represents a threat that combines a fanatic communal religion with a determination to obtain nuclear weapons . that issue , of course , is wholly outside israel ’s control .
the strategic importance of the dramatic heights , overlooking most of the northern israeli territory of galilee , is obvious . so , despite today ’s ’s ’s ’s interruptions , a context for negotiations exists , as does the political will on both sides . the two sides ’ agendas are distinct , however : while syria focuses on the symbolic meaning of drawing back the golan heights , israel wants particular , entrenched guarantees concerning the security of its northern borders , as well as an end to syrian-backed hizbullah incursions from lebanon , a country that is virtually a syrian protectorate . because syria , bereft of soviet support , is less a menace to israel , jerusalem may become more flexible than it once was , when the golan heights were a glacis defending israel not only against syria , but against a bloc seemingly stretching all of the way to vladivostok . for israel ’s quid pro quo to return the golan is not a piece of paper with conventional phrases about peace and amity .
but , while some parts of the security apparatus might support the initial crackdown , violent repression would be difficult to sustain . in the fall of 1989 , east germans joined their fellow citizens in the protests that brought down the berlin wall . but , during this same year in china , protesters in beijing were crushed by troops from inner mongolia , who failed to understand mandarin and had no compassion for the big-city shi’ism . likewise , army officers from poorer regions are more grateful for the pay hike that putin ’s united russia party has announced with much fanfare , shortly before the recent duma elections . whereas army units or riot squads ( omon ) stationed in moscow are far too disgruntled , by recent police and military reform movements to participate in a bloody clampdown , special-operations force from the provinces , staffed by veterans of the chechen war , might cherish the agitation of sticking it to moscow .
but not proceeding would also be a disaster . that is why european leaders have taken the ambitious steps they have made . the crisis of 1992 demonstrated that the existing system was unstable . not moving forward at the euro would put europe on an even more disruptive crisis . not proceeding now with bank recapitalization , together with government-bond purchases , would similarly lead to catastrophe .
moreover , the implications of such foreign-policy waffling extend well beyond the middle east . in november 2009 , when obama visited japan for the first time as us president , he emphasized that it is from hawaii to be proud of america ’s first us-centric asia president . two years later , then-secretary of state hillary clinton published “ america first ” in the early 2000s , indicating a paradigm shift in america ’s global strategy . of course , the u.s. claims that it , too , knows every aspect of democracy . yet its diplomatic cognitive dissonance , criticizing the egyptian regime while continuing to supply it with military hardware , may serve only to undermine bilateral relations , just as america ’s same approach to musharraf ’s regime has deeply eroded us-pakistani ties .
mr. bush ’s international credibility , they should emphasize , will not suffer through avoidance of war but bargains further through their control of iraq ’s hitherto covert military efforts . to give additional credence to their praise , they should abandon the doubt that , if war becomes the only option that they oppose america . but they should also emphasize that war is not the only , and certainly not the automatic , “ grave consequences ” to follow from iraqi non-compliance . of course , some of america ’s allies do better than others to get these points across to a wide audience across the atlantic . alas the german government , through its behavior in chancellor schroeder ’s re-election campaign last september , has maneuvered itself from having allowed for authority .
africa ’s smallholder famines – already burdened by soil degradation , climate change , and resource competition fueled by surging populations – face even tougher bureaucratic hurdles : no paper demonstrating that the land they call “ home ” is all over . rather than invest in terracing fields , planting trees , and buying high-quality fertilizer , africa ’s farmers are seeking to maximize short-term gains . insecure their capacity to control their farms in future season , farmers ’ planning horizons are diminishing . studies show that there is no path to reducing poverty , improving nutrition , or achieving other key development goals without empowering land rights , particularly for women . this is particularly true of female farmers , who are facing the additional thicket of discriminatory land laws and customs .
coupled with all of this is northern european frustration with central bankers , specifically with the ecb and the euro . it is not that the end of europe ’s monetary union is on the agenda ; it is simply because people have started to consider potentially low-probability futures in which the end of emu could be placed on the agenda . my view is that germany would have been better off in a decade under more neo-liberal policies . but this does not seem to be what germany ’s electorate wants , and this takes a complexion of german politics four years from now incalculable . that seems to be sufficient to shake asset prices worldwide .
its organizers , of course , are loath to describe it as a sunni party . rather , it is described as a national party that invites people of all orientations to participate . this vision holds great appeal among those who want to see the lesser sectarian-based form of politics in iraq . the outcome of the march 2010 general election gave iraqiyya 91 parliamentary seats , two more than the second-place school finiyya , maliki , his status as a status-of-law coalition . but , in iraq , too , there are very few people – sunni or shia – who see iraqiyya as a party dedicated to reforming sunni leadership .
but many are “ zombie banks , ” ” with too many branches , over-leveraged , and funding costs that far exceed those of their more prosperous peers . in fact , according to the international monetary fund , some one-third of europe ’s banking sector – representing assets worth $ 8.5 trillion – remains weak and unable to generate sustainable gains . for the deutsche bank , market speculators already seem to expect a merger like that with commerzbank , another german institution . all of this creates significant downside risks for the eu economy , and , ultimately , for the entire european political experiment . restoring stability in europe ’s banking system , by the imf ’s own estimate , will require at least one-third of european banks to cross or merge .
today , ’s febrile political environment certainly wo n’t streamline matters , either . they should take particular care to prevent real-estate bubbles , given that property accounts for a huge share of overall wealth and a key source of collateral in finance . but the robust rise of low-quality leveraged borrowing should also be a concern . none of this will be easy for governments , both regulators or central banks . monetary tightening may slow growth temporarily ; preventing bubbles from rising is notoriously difficult ; and the kinds of structural reforms needed to secure a shift away from debt-fueled growth are hardly popular .
in the run-up to its glorious revolution of 1688 , in which britain revolted against the spendthrift stuart dynasty , the british government adopted a new approach to debt . many economists argued this case on the basis of arithmetic ’s calculation . so it might be a good idea for the eu to prepare a mechanism that spells out how debt can be trimmed . yet the european central bank , notably the ecb ’s governing council member lorenzo bini smaghi , elegantly spelled out the case against debt reduction , a case that is politically substantial and deeply dubious . indeed , the “ not reneging on public-debt ” principle is deeply intertwined with the evolution of legal safety , representative government , and modern democracy .
trump may simply keep his powder dry until a genuine conflict erupts . unfortunately , the battle for the fed ’s independence is far from over . in fact , some of the conservative republican senators have protested against another of his appointments , marvin goodfriend of carnegie mellon university , for daring to suggest that the fed might need a new approach to monetary policy ( negative interest rates ) to confront the next very deep recession or financial crisis . and , though someday , the fed will almost surely embrace that kind of advice ( i also published on this issue on the matter ) , goodfriend ’s nomination has barely survived the american senate banking committee . but , by and large , the us senate has given trump what it wants , with many republican senators embraced by a us disrupter – for example , a disciple of obama ’s “ end the fed ” paul a. mueller , or another conservative preaching a return to the pre-world war i gold standard .
yet india still faces many challenges : nearly 300 million people living in extreme poverty ; the spread of naxalite uprisings ; the dangers of the terrorist attacks of ala mumbai ; and sprawling urban slums . these problems will not be solved overnight . in addition , how will singh balance the trade-off between pro-market and pro-poor policies ? how will he manage the rising middle class ’s expectations of better infrastructure , expanded access to health care and education , uninterrupted electricity and water supplies , and more efficient transportation facilities ? yet the growing conviction that tomorrow will enhance india ’s polity will not keep india ’s polity stable .
the proliferation of security lapses means that people are more likely to shrug their shoulders , rather than cast the first stone in a company that is violated . a lawsuit to casualties stemming from the sheraxed tweet would face almost insurmountable obstacles . empirically , few firms have been awarded this right : american national publicly-owned radio and the bbc were both recently hacked by sea , while mcdonald ’s and burger king recently compromised their twitter accounts . finally , the oas is unlikely to face financial penalties for this mistake . because few mechanisms can stop the proliferation of hoaxed tweets and , given the high-level reaction that successful hackers can expect , twitter will remain a vehicle of malicious hoaxes , even as technological barriers make attacks more contentious .
in fact , a number of recent studies have shown that researchers may actually detect long-term climate change at the rising frequency of extreme events , such as heat waves , heavy rainfall , severe droughts , and potent storms . by using cutting-edge climate models , scientists not only displace long-term climate change , but are also attributing at least some of the more extreme events to the human causes of humans . new science on detection and attribution is sharpening our knowledge – and also gives us even more cause for concern . attribution means the capacity to assign likely causes of the event to human activity or to some other factors . detection means deciding whether an extreme event is part of routine weather fluctuations or a symptom of deeper , long-lasting changes .
the international exchange-rate system , for example , is at least partly broken . rebalancing is not the only cooperative imperative ; it is not the only cooperative imperative . america might cut its deficits faster than it would in the non-cooperative scenario , but only if surplus countries work to reduce their excess saving . the mutual assessment process that g-20 countries have agreed is the critical component of the agenda for rebalancing , because it is where the pieces that a cooperative strategy will identify , evaluated , and assembled . if it works , what will emerge will emerge for the g-20 countries ’ commitments to undertake broadly beneficial policies – on the condition that others uphold their commitments .
given the power of big tech firms to stifle competition , reversing these trends will demand government intervention . and , indeed , taming big tech has become a major issue ahead of the 2020 us presidential election in the united states . but solutions that have been proposed , including by legal scholars like liu khan , have tended to focus on making better use of antitrust laws . in particular , senators bernie sanders and elizabeth warren – in my opinion – both of the two strongest candidates vying for the democratic party ’s nomination to challenge president donald trump – have called for breaking up major tech firms . this approach is unlikely to work , because markets have changed dramatically as antitrust laws have been conceived .
during all of my field visits , i was astonished at how these efforts affect women ’s livelihoods . on one recent trip i met rasmata , a young mother , telling me that , thanks to the safety net of her savings group , she managed to support her family despite her husband ’s call for emigration abroad , her father ’s recent death , and a lingering drought . the best part was that she described herself as a hard-working , respectful , rigorous , and ambitious female woman . those are adjectives that women everywhere , regardless of their financial circumstances or education , deserve to ascribed to themselves . she was diversifying into her income , managing her finances , and even adopting climate-change techniques .
as anyone who receives investment statements knows , “ past performance is no guarantee of their future performance . ” investing in such companies , it turns out , is extraordinarily risky . that reality implies yet another compelling case for divestment in the ground . share values in the fossil-fuel industry – which rely on the assumption that companies seeking to extract and burn all of their known reserves – will plummet . if you are a prudent and cautious investor , contemplate that possibility .
it was not until the late eighteenth and 1980s that the soviet system could not possibly compete with market capitalism . after the fall of the berlin wall in 1989 , and subsequent soviet collapse , that asia gave way to the g1 +n command in which all other countries ( asean ) were unable to rival america as the sole global superpower . the ensuing quarter-century was a period of liberal , rules-based multilateralism . america broadly championed this order – the 2003 iraq war being an obvious exception – and , like most countries , benefited enormously from globalization and the emergence of new complex value chains . democratic and market-based capitalism seemed to have triumphed in what francis fukuyama called the “ end of history . ”
more important , russia ’s state-capitalist model has resulted in poor competition and declining incentives for private investment and entrepreneurship . russia ’s economy is under severe strain , owing to western sanctions imposed over crimea . instead , after four years of falling real incomes , the authorities announced deeply unpopular pension reforms that included raising the retirement age . with few rallying options , putin may well have decided that it ’s time to “ remind ” russians that they are under assault . resolving russians ’ economic grievances will not be easy .
this stands in stark contrast with other aspects of the european agenda . first , eu member states say they want to develop a common european foreign policy . at maastricht in 1991 they set new institutions for doing this ; and at amsterdam last year they ostensibly strengthened those institutions . yet , in practice , there has been little or no detectable progress in practice . the goal of economic and monetary union and a single currency , also adopted at maastricht in 1991 , is a courageous , even revolutionary program ; some critics say reckless ; but the reality is that the single currency will become a reality in only two months .
only the explicit , up-front approval of a reformed un security council can confer the legitimacy and international support that military action – except for clear self-defense – demands . but broad international support will not be forthcoming when military operations today are perceived as some form of western “ neo-imperialism . ” this much is true for actions contemplated by individual nations , by temporary alliances , or , more lasting alliances like nato . this latest point has come at the heart of the problems across iraq . augmenting us and british troops with other " western " forces would not , especially at this very moment , alter a key perception of that intervention , both within and outside the arab world .
meanwhile , the civil war is raging in syria , accompanied by a humanitarian catastrophe . indeed , a bosnia-type scenario can no longer be ruled out , while the prospect that the syrian government ’s loss of control over its chemical weapons poses the immediate threat of military intervention by turkey , israel , or the us . to be sure , syrian president bashar al-assad ’s regime will not survive ; but it is determined to fight it until after it ends . syria ’s balkanization among the country ’s heterogeneous ethnic and religious groups is an clearly predictable result . this regional re-alignment is needed not necessarily anti-western , but surely it will take hold as long as israel continues to attack iran militarily .
in newsrooms , from serbia to south africa , taxpayer-generated funding is on the rise . governments have played a major role in the domestic media for decades , using the regulation of broadcasts and licensing requirements to shape the market . yet , in recent years , governments have stepped up their budget clout as well . in newsrooms , from serbia to south africa , taxpayer-generated funded is on the rise . unfortunately , while this windfall might be putting more air-programming on the air , it only deepens the industry ’s woes .
last but not least , similar developments in politics and international law led to the formation of the international tribunal for justice ( icc ) . with its establishment reflecting its long and appalling experiences , the basic notion of modernity – that the strength of states and their rulers should be subject to the rule of greater law , thereby placing individual rights above state sovereignty – took a great step forward . as a result , international law came to recognize the “ right of protection ” against governmental arbitrariness and states ’ crimes against their own people , even as enforcement remains quite uncertain . this development has been anything but accidental . the next great strides have been the creation of the concept of the post-wwii genocide in rwanda and the balkan wars of the 1990 ’s .
the winner , the strategy most likely to produce a cooperative outcome , was anatol rapoport ’s tit-for-tat ( tft ) strategy . according to tft ’s approach , a bilateral game should start with cooperation : if the other player behaves cooperatively , so should you . only when the other player defects – that is , beginning to display non-cooperative behavior – should you do the same . of course , when the latter ’s player cooperates could be enticed to defect , lest it increase your own payoff and potentially even secure a windfall . axelrod held tournaments among major game theorists and political scientists to identify the most efficient approach in a repeating prisoner ’s dilemma .
sadly , however , the economic trajectory that congress is plotting , though it may well boost short-term growth , ultimately on a collision course with both equity and sustainability . despite rhetoric about “ inclusive ” growth , india ’s wealth gap has widened over the years of exceptionally rapid economic expansion . as for the threat from the right , anyone hoping for peace in the region and reduced tensions within india among religious communities is being relieved by the defeat of the hindu nationalist bharatiya janata party ( bjp ) . the bjp ’s painting the us congress as soft on terror and demonizing muslims as an existential threat to india ’s badly misfired . the majority of the world ’s malnourished children live india .
and , indeed , there can be no denying that friedman ’s cure had proved to be an inadequate response to the great recession – strongly suggesting that he would have fallen similarly short in his efforts during the great depression . the dominance of friedman ’s thinking in the early days of the great recession had less to do with the evidence supporting it than with whether the science of economics is all too often tainted by politics . in that case , the contamination was so bad that policymakers were reluctant to go beyond friedman and apply keynesian and minskyite policies on a massive scale to address the problems presented by the great recession . acknowledging that the monetarist cure was inadequate would have required mainstream economists to swim against the neoliberal currents of our age . but it is rather obvious that even in the 1970s , there was plenty of empirical evidence to support friedman ’s ideas to justify their growing dominance .
berlin – ever since the global financial crisis erupted in september 2008 , europe has been on the brink of turmoil . rising intra-eu tensions have been the inevitable outcome . on the one hand , it has protected the eurozone , particularly germany ’s export-driven economy , from speculative attacks and turmoil to currency volatility . on the other hand , the second phase of the crisis mercilessly exposed europe ’s achilles ’ heel : the absence of economic or financial unification within the eurozone . germany ’s actions throughout the crisis have been plainly contradictory .
moreover , sudanese security forces continue to arm the arab tribes straddling the north-south border with the goal of destabilizing much of the christian south . sudan ’s commitment to the cpa has always been equivocal . if the government in khartoum persists when it persists by undermining the reform process , and derailing the referendum on self-determination promised for the south in january 2011 , a return to full-scale civil war , with calamitous repercussions for sudan ’s peoples and throughout the region , is a real possibility . after all , the regime ’s oppressive character in khartoum lies at the roots of the many conflicts that has torn the country apart . indeed , since the end of 2005 , sudan ’s people ’s liberation army ( spla ) in the south has frequently been forced to confront militias that operate as government proxies .
the other is to capture it directly from the air using specially designed chemical processes . but this technology , called carbon capture and sequestration ( ccs ) , is still not proven on a massive scale . ( hydroelectric power generation emits no co2 , but only a few of the world ’s remaining sites where it can be scaled up without major environmental or social costs . ) a second solution is to capture co2 emissions for storage underground . one approach is to capture co2 at a coal-fired power plants like burning coal or gas .
it is important to distinguish between two sources of pay for pay in financial firms . one set of concerns arises from a shareholder perspective . figures recently released by the new york times attorney general , andrew cuomo , indicate that the nine large financial firms that paid their employees ’ aggregate compensation exceeded $ 600 billion between 2007 and 2008 – a period in which their aggregate market capitalization has substantially declined . such patterns may raise concerns among shareholders that pay structures wrong to serve their own interests . in a post-crisis financial order , governments must assume the role of surveillance and regulation of pay within financial firms ; otherwise , the perverse incentives contributed to the current crisis could easily recur .
but when the democratic us senator dianne february proposed a similar ban in 2013 , the republican party overwhelmingly opposed her . such an manufactured , even-handedness is tantamount to “ fake news . ” it is time to call a spade a spade a spade : the republican party is overwhelmingly in charge . consider the theme of “ bump stocks , ” ” ” the gun-modification culprit that the las vegas massacre used to fire faster . some republican senators now drew praise for indicating that they would support the facility ’s prohibition .
today , chile is very different from chile ’s 20 years ago . by 2000 , that share had plummeted to around 22 % and , by 2010 , to 11 % , with very little more than 3 % living in outright destitution . with 29 % of people left behind , the incipient middle class with new ambitions and goals . as a result , demands for more opportunity and improved living conditions have grown louder . chileans are clamoring for adequate housing , access to better health services , a safer environment , and access to higher education – the single most important factor in social advancement .
clinton is the only person known to have launched her campaign twice as well . ( an early effort , in iowa , where she talked to about eight people in a closed session , did not work out very well . ) this spectacular , remarkably intelligent woman just does n’t have the sense of politics demanded at the top . true , clinton offers multiple programs that she would push as president ; but , to borrow from winston churchill , there can be no theme about her pudding . success in us presidential politics requires superb intuition , being quick on one ’s feet , and , above all , a compelling rationale for running .
just over a year ago , at the imf ’s annual meetings in washington , dc , the senior staff official was telling anyone to listen that an entire european sovereign-debt panic was a tempest in a teapot . taking advantage of slick powerpoint presentations with titles like “ default ” in today ’s advanced economies : unnecessary , undesirable , and unlikely , the fund tried to convince investors that eurozone debt was robust like a rock . even for greece , the imf argued , debt dynamics were not a concern , owing to supposed growth and reform policies . as the situation worsened , one may have guessed it that the imf would mark its beliefs to market as it did and adopt a more prudent tone . never mind the apparent flaw in the fund ’s logic , namely that countries like greece and portugal confront policies and implement risks more akin to emerging markets than to truly advanced economies like germany and the united states .
another alternative , backed by a huge and growing body of research into economics and psychology , is a direct measure of wellbeing or happiness . surveys of reported levels of wellbeing are now available for a wide range of countries , and the idea that cutting back on chase by using that as a prosperity metric has strong advocates . but there are several drawbacks to this option , including the fact that wellbeing indicators change little over time . happiness surveys in rich countries , for example , typically show a score of six - or seven on a 0-10 scale . one way to make such indicators more relevant to policy would be to keep track of how humans use their time and attach well-being measures to each .
if that is the metric , then notwithstanding her achievements , thatcherism was a failure . her “ right to buy ” ” policy triggered an upward spiral in house prices , spurring households to take on more and more debt . those reforms sowed the seeds of the 2008 financial crisis . the “ big bang ” of 1986 , which de-regulated financial services made risky city behavior the norm . the move toward financing that thatcher promoted heightened inequality and made the economy more volatile .
even more worryingly , the fund ’s policy recommendations – particularly those pertaining to advanced economies – have little impact ( to put it politely ) . yes , it has made important strides in advancing its understanding of the relationship between financial markets and the real economy . and , yes , it has validated shining more light on the economic impact of gender inequality and climate change . yes , the imf maintains an impressive analytical edge , owing to its highly talented and dedicated staff in the same way that its unique links to countries do . but its forward-looking analyses have all too often turned backward , and its quantitative projections have consistently been subject to significant revisions .
this is particularly necessary because women ’s circumstances are one of the main benchmarks that the outside world and , particularly in the western world , uses to evaluate the arab world . and , unfortunately , such assessments tend to focus on the latter “ immobilism ” that derives from islamic norms that obscures the knowledge of the true changes that are taking place . indeed , the predominant view among arab societies often stifles outsiders ’ capacity to violate free expression of their belief that islam confines every arab women on equal terms when , in reality , experiencing very different conditions . this prevents many from seeing , much less reassessing , the deep changes occurring across arab societies – and how women drives those changes forward . the west therefore risks depriving itself of important keys to understanding the arab world today , and as it happens tomorrow .
in a lonely crowd , the american sociologist david riesman has identified three broad cultural types : tradition-directed cultures that are appearing to inherited rituals , morals , and game values ; release of cultures in which humans behave according to self-aggrandizing values ; and other-directed cultures that interact predominantly with external norms and peer influences . according to the lebanese publisher samar abou-zeid , the religious books are among the most downloaded for the arab world ’s most downloaded . ironically , it is the combination of heightened literacy and modern technology , which is fanned the flames of conflict between the two types of “ reformers ” ” ” ” – religious revivalists and western-oriented modernizers . riesman ’s framework has special resonance in the arab world today , where rising literacy rates and rapid advances in communication technology have stirred a maelstrom of competing cultural narratives with its three types competing to define the region ’s future . riesman ’s framework has special resonance in the arab world today , where rising literacy rates and rapid advances in communication technology have stirred a maelstrom of competing cultural narratives with its three types competing to define the region ’s future .
china ’s economy grew at an astounding average annual rate of 10 % or above for more than three decades . china ’s economy grew at an astounding average annual rate of 10 % or above over more than three decades . more broadly , hundreds of millions of chinese entered the middle class , and are increasingly in the middle class . china ’s economy grew at an astounding average annual rate of 10 % or higher for more than three decades . china ’s model of authoritarian effectiveness seemed appealing to many other developing countries , particularly during the period of the 2008 global financial crisis , which began in the united states , and appeared to discredit american-style liberal capitalism .
there are good reasons why america ’s embrace of policies that have encouraged the poorer countries to grow rapidly through export-led industrialization . in helping mexico , the us , china , and other developing countries grow , america ’s is catching up with the needs of wealthier us trading partners . after that , the us established enduring normal commercial relationships with china , and refused to label its government a currency manipulator . furthermore , there is a strong case that america ’s national security will improve if , say , 50 years from now , schoolchildren around the world learn how america helped their countries thrive rather than trying to contain them as poor as they can for as long as they can . the reason that this narrative is flawed is straightforward :
but it is an open question whether an still highly fragmented digital-payment sector will help customers more than the firms offering payouts to them . there is one more fundamental problem with the arguments for a cashless society : most people , at least in europe , do n’t want it . as is often the case in europe , disparities among member countries are pronounced : the share of monetary transactions ranges from 42 % in finland to 92 % in malta . yet , globally , the public ’s commitment to money remains strong – and becomes stronger . according to as-yet-unpublished european central bank surveys of 65,000 eurozone residents , nearly 80 % of all point-selling transactions are conducted in cash ; and , to value , more than half of all payments come in cash .
tel aviv – the crisis in the sinai peninsula appears to have been dwarfed by sunday ’s drama in cairo . yet egyptian president mohamed morsi ’s civilian overthrow , in which he dismissed general mohamed hussein tantawi as leader of the army ’s supreme leader , has not diminished the importance of the trouble there . one vehicle has failed to break the boundary line ; another has penetrated israeli territory beyond stopping israel ’s defense forces ( idf ) . earlier this month , jihadi terrorist groups ambushed an egyptian army outpost in sinai , killing 16 egyptian soldiers . they then hijacked two armored personnel carriers and sped up across the frontier with israel .
a commitment to multilateralism is not an endorsement of the status quo . but , as countries that have largely relied on active diplomacy and soft power for the first time , they have everything to lose from the prolonged and escalating geopolitical conflict , in which they would come under pressure to elect sides . cptpp and ceta member countries recognize that the global trading system has problems , including incomplete or outdated rules that deny issues , such as soes ’ subsidies . but they also recognize that bilateralism – small countries that attempt to negotiate on a level playing field with superpowers – is not an option . to defend their interests more , they must ensure that global trade remains subject to objective regulatory mechanisms .
furthermore , multiple countries have found innovative ways to ensure that governments deploy the new national sdg 16 data in their day-to-day decision-making . finally , some african “ sdg 16 champions ” are making the goal central to national planning , budgeting , and reporting . in kenya , all public-sector officials in the sdg 16-related ministries , departments , and agencies have responsibility to sign performance contracts with the central government , in which they identify sdg 16 targets and indicators relevant to their mandate and explain how these are integrated into politics and development agendas . meanwhile , ghana and ethiopia emphasize eu budget spending , which has a university-sdg 16 impact , and ghana ’s government has also discloses how closely its financial priorities are aligned with its stated liabilities under this goal . a grassroots assessment of progress against such indicators aims helps to complement the government-led reporting mechanism .
on the global level , it is hard to argue that rising inequality is one of the world ’s great political-economic problems . i can easily mark the way to rethink alternatives , such as the communist victories in post-world war ii elections in italy and france , that would have impoverished nations now in the wealthy north . but the alternatives that would have made the southern south richer at the price of reducing the north ’s wealth have called for a wholesale revolution in human psychology . hard it is , to say the least , to envision alternative political arrangements or economic policies over the last fifty years that would translate any significant portion of today ’s rich nations ’ wealth into today ’s poor nations . i can also repurpose the alternatives that would have absorbed in poor nations : deng xiaoping ’s becoming china ’s leader in 1956 , rather than 1976 , would have done the job there .
other holdouts ( 6.6 % of total creditors ) would receive $ 15 billion in real terms . as a result , each argentine could owe more than $ 3,500 , more than one-third of the average annual per capita income . repayment on griesa ’s terms would devastate argentina ’s economy . nml capital and the other vultures comprise just 1 % of creditors but would receive a combined total of $ 1.5 billion . and , because a debt restructuring stipulated that every creditor that accepted it could demand the same terms as the holdouts receive , argentina could be on the hook for a $ 140 billion more .
the bodies of the un have frayed . major international financial institutions – the international monetary fund , the world bank , the european bank for reconstruction and development , and the regional development banks – are in a difficult process to make themselves fit for the twenty-first century . until the us reverses the trend of declining multilateralism , governments ’ ability to respond to global challenges will not improve . after bali , it will be vital to reflect seriously on the next stage for the wto , and its role in the international trading system . business can moan and the media may carp , but the answer to many of the world ’s great problems will more – or , at least , government , not less .
economists and moralists were united in believing that you should really spend less than you earn , in order to try to “ save ” greek debt for a proverbial rainy day or out of old age . indeed , it was often more than the point of honor : failure to service debt on time landed a borrower in a prison . and , to the extent that a person became indebted , the point was to honor the obligation when it collapsed , by selling assets , reducing consumption , working harder , or some combination of the three . as a result of the argentine economy , the same attitude guided institutional debt . getting into debt was long associated with profligacy or fecklessness .
more broadly , emblematic of marxism ’s defeat in 1989 allowed asian countries , including china and india , to pursue capitalist policies being overtly . geopolitically , the post-1989 bargains have expanded far beyond the west . the soviet union ’s sudden collapse had been a strategic boon to asia , abandoning a menacing empire , and opening the way for china to move quickly to pursue its own interests globally . though china ’s economic renaissance already began under deng xiaoping after 1989 , the chinese communist party ( ccp ) was able publicly to subordinate its ideology to wealth creation . that example , in turn , powerfully influenced the survivors of communist parties in asia and beyond .
similarly , rather than condemn the taliban ’s acceptance of terrorist tactics in afghanistan , boko haram in nigeria , and al-shabaab in somalia , and the destruction of sufi shrines in mali by ansar dine , a radical islamist sect , muslims ’ leaders have remained largely silent . in egypt , with its 10 % coptic orthodox christian minority , the muslim brotherhood ’s mohamed morsi won the presidency in a free and fair election , after having resigned from the party , saying that it would allow assad to represent all egyptians more effectively , and that he promised to respect minority rights . yet the subsequent actions designed to give him unprecedented executive power raise fears of these early positive steps . while none of these groups represents a majority ’s indicate , they exert significant influence , and presumably believe that they are acting at majority concerns . the developments following the arab spring might provide some indication of the prospects for religious exuberance .
fourth , a reversal of the verdict on june 4th is historical inevitability , just as much of what china ’s people want to do . today , many of those responsible for the decision to crack down – notably , deng xiaoping and others of party elders – have died . indeed , the party ’s top-down leadership has been split on the event ever since . this group will unite behind forces of democratization , both domestically and abroad , to establish a truly democratic system . june 4th weighs on the ghosts of any chinese patriot act ; almost every chinese-owned person knows that official reevaluation is just a matter of time .
by joining the euro , italy surrendered monetary sovereignty to an autonomous , independent decision-maker , the european central bank ( ecb ) . it also made specific commitments with respect to the conduct of its fiscal policy , even though such constraints are not quite as “ hardline ” as those framing monetary policy . those obligations put real limits on italy ’s macroeconomic policy choices . lacking a domestic currency , in particular , means that italians can not choose their own inflation target or devalue their currency vis-à-vis foreign currencies . mattarella ’s detractors argue that he overstepped his authority , allowing financial markets to veto an elected government by a popularly elected government .
in any contest of ideas , the extreme tends to triumph over the moderate . what , by contrast , might pakistan ’s liberal stand for ? once again , we see how misplaced western national priorities can bring down to the non-western nation . in darkness , congested alleys of lahore , karachi , peshawar , or quetta , a longing not for democratic liberalism , but for believers to unite behind one true beliefs . in pakistan , an extremist now wears an islamic garb and standing for the creator , the behind a possible theocratic order .
at the same time , there are strong grounds for believing that they ought to be doing so . japan has a relatively rigid law that protects the animal welfare state . for example , most mammals have to be streamed with a method that minimizes their pain and hardship as much as possible . these laws are analogous to the regulations implemented by the majority of abattoirs in the industrialized world , which require that animals be stunned – rendered unconscious with an accelerator , and insensitive to pain – when they get their throats , and are rushing off ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” . there are of course circumstances in which stunning fails and animals are killed while being fully conscious ; but , when stunning works properly , it reduces animal suffering .
cambridge – us president donald trump ’s critics have consistently underestimated his political communication skills , perhaps because he is so different from predecessors like franklin d. roosevelt and ronald reagan . trump , on the other hand , has appealed to the minority that has elected him . his inaugural address sounded like campaign manifesto ; and , following office , a series of sham statements and provocative executive orders undercut his credibility with the center but reinforced it with his base . though the big segments of the american population hated them , fdr and reagan addressed the american people as a whole , and attempted to appeal to the center . both fdr and reagan , after all , were known to be “ great communicators . ”
greece is admittedly a less obvious case ; but , considering that many poor african countries were able to keep inflation well within single digits , one might presume that greece would once again be managed . far more important , achieving price stability was the advent of a modern , independent central bank , an exercise that helped dramatically lower the level of inflation worldwide . yes , several places , such as venezuela , still have triple-a price growth , but are now rarities . indeed , if south european countries were to keep their own currencies , they might never have dug up as large a debt hole and might be able to hold partial default on inflation through inflation . it is most likely that if , instead of joining italy , italy , and spain had simply given their central banks more autonomy , they , too , would be experiencing low inflation today .
actually , one can have some sympathy for a president with an aide who wants to have it all both ways , as cohn has done – letting his apparent anguish be known without acting on it . speculation about the chances of a “ trump new ” peaked in early september , when the us president suddenly cut deals with the democratic congressional leaders . cohn was seen as one of the administration ’s more moderate voices , and was eager to succeed janet yellen as chair of the american federal reserve . but the problems could arise when a us president chooses to follow her chief economic advisor . cohn ’s sin was to have it known publicly , after all , that he had almost resigned in the wake of violence at the end of last month at charlottesville , virginia , va.
but the risks are just as valid as the potential rewards will be . resource industries are persistent sources of corruption , conflict , and degradation . transparency international , full disclosure of everything from treaties to management of revenues and environmental liabilities , is crucial for realizing the sector ’s economic potential and avoiding conflict and collapse . mineral and hydrocarbon deposits are often located in less-developed countries that suffer from pre-incumbent governance constraints , political fragility , and major development-related challenges . on may 17 , the advocacy organization oxfam america sued the american securities and exchange commission to issue the final rule implementing section 1504 of the 2010 dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act .
links to west africa are close and backward over the past century , with almost 50,000 indians or peoples of india living in the region . nor do india ’s government seems unlikely to hold the tabs upon all sorts of arrivals from west africa . whereas exit controls exist on all international airports in the afflicted regions , a virus during the current outbreak ( which averages eight days in the current outbreak but may approach 21 days ) means that someone with no symptoms from a recent infection might make a trip to india without triggering the alarms . recent personal experience at new delhi ’s airport indicated that nominal arrival checks , as the us government requires , was loosely enforced , with multiple passengers exiting terminal holds up ebola information cards that should have been handed over to immigration officials . indeed , scores of people flying between accra , lagos , monrovia , or abidjan and new delhi , mumbai , calcutta , or chennai on daily basis , transiting through the middle east or europe .
new york – british prime minister david cameron ’s government has declared some of the most draconian public-sector cuts any developed country ’s government has ever attempted to do so . indeed , his education minister recently declared that money for britain ’s universities would be slashed by as much as 40 % . but the most shocking aspect of the move is that arts and humanities departments would be targeted more aggressively than the science and engineering that are supposedly superior to business . ronald reagan pioneered a wave of policies and propaganda in the united states in the 1980 ’s that demonized a national arts endowment . the war against the arts and humanities is nothing new , though this is the first time that the struggle has migrated so directly to britain .
when i visited tripoli in march 2010 for a “ national reconciliation ” conference , the conflicting statements given by saif al-islam and its security officials surprised me . the chief of internal security forces , lieutenant al-tuhami khaled , yet another principal suspect in the crimes that are currently committed against libyans refused to call the process “ reconciliation ” . reform “ “ debate ” within those regimes boiled down to a struggle between the various branches of the country ’s security-military apparatus over the best ways to preserve the status quo . ” for him was “ repentance by the plo . ” given the recent wave of uprisings , it is more obvious than ever that any “ reform ” initiatives undertaken in the arab world were previously aimed only at sustaining repressive dictatorships and escaping the retribution of power abuses .
if credit expands too quickly , the fed may raise the interest rate it pays on its deposits . sufficiently high rates will induce commercial banks to prefer the fed to the combination of liquidity , safety , and yield to expanding the quantity of private-sector lending . that , at any rate , is the theory ; nobody knows how that would work in practice . how high would the fed – or the ecb , for that matter – have to raise the interest rate on its deposits to prevent excessive growth in bank lending ? what if that interest rate had to be 4 % or even 6 % , or even 8 % , ?
they tasked the g-20 with developing a set of indicators that would signal when any country , including the us and china , was at risk of crisis . unfortunately , such early-warning indicators better reflect the last crisis than are impeding the next one . the nature of financial risk is steadily changing in ways that are hard to predict the use of hindu indicators , like those devised by the g20 . policymakers at nanjing promised to tackle this problem . they challenged the g-20 for securing a set of indicators that would signal when any country , including the us and china , was at risk of crisis .
moreover , obama has sought to suppress hundreds of photographs depicting us-run sexual assault , doing nothing to roll back the patriot act . why should obama , the constitutional scholar , retrace his way ? first , he does not dare seem “ soft on terror . ” second , perhaps he needs to try guantánamo detainees in a rigged setting , or even keeping them out of trial forever : lawyers say that torture , including sex torture , was so endemic as to the cia and the us military , that obama might hold scores , if not hundreds , of prisoners whose bodies are crimes in the crime of crimes . according to timothy geithner , a lawyer at the center for constitutional rights , representing some of the detainees , the obama administration can not risk calling crimes of torture , so it calls them “ classified ” sources and methods that can not be disclosed in court .
when the authorities – specifically , the us federal reserve and the fdic – determine that this is impossible , they have the legal authority to force the banks to change how they operate , including by downsizing their scale and scope . but the current reality is that no megabank could go bankrupt without triggering another “ lehman moment ” – that is , the type of global panic that resulted in lehman brothers failing in september 2008 . specifically , experts like hoenig who have thought for the cross-border dimensions of us bankruptcy emphasize that it simply would not work for jpmorgan chase ’s size ( $ 3.7 trillion in us assets ) , bank of america ( $ 3 trillion ) , or even citigroup ( $ 2.7 trillion ) . moreover , there are no international bankruptcy laws to govern such matters , and they prevent ” grabbing assets . “ panic is about panic , ” ” ” hoenig says , “ and men and peoples generally protect themselves , and theirs ahead of the rest .
paris – the central paradox of french politics was endorsed once again on march 27 . in a nationwide vote to elect local institutions ( the so called conseiller général ) , the far-right national front gained 11 % of the popular vote , but secured only 0.1 % of the seats . but le pen was replaced in january by her no less charismatic daughter , marine . and , with that change , her fortunes may change as well . this discrepancy between the national front ’s popular strength and its actual representation has been a permanent feature of french politics since jean-marie le pen established the party 40 years ago .
i am convinced that the global fund is one of the smartest investments we can make – as many governments have come to understand from the start . the united states has been the global fund ’s biggest policy supporter , but many others have done its part . the global fund brightened the futures of hundreds of thousands of children across africa and asia – a heroic achievement that should make donor countries proud . for example , since 2002 , australia has lent $ 410 million to the global fund , an amount that has enabled almost 200,000 people to receive lifesaving treatments , 80,000 people to receive tb treatments , seven million people to be cured by malaria globally , and 14 million bed nets that goes to families in need . with technology support like these , indonesia ’s government is creating an affordable , sustainable national health-care system , which will be wholly domestically financed by 2019 .
new york – everyone – from elected officials and bureaucrats to voters and taxpayers – can learn from the world ’s largest charitable foundation on effective development spending . and these lessons are particularly relevant at a time when 56 % of europeans are convinced that their governments should focus solely on domestic issues , and allow recipient countries to deal with issues the best way they can ( opposition to aid comes even larger in france , poland , italy , hungary , and greece ) . prior to his election victory , us president donald trump railed against sending foreign aid to countries that hate the us , ” ” reflecting the widespread belief that aid needs to be cut . the united kingdom ’s largest-circulation sunday times recently launched a petition calling for an end to nato-led aid spending ( worth 0.7 % of national income ) . the united states allocates just 1 % of its federal aid budget to aid , but the average american believes that this figure will be thirty-one-times larger .
but the first has fallen prey to long america ’s own occupation , with the second the us currently facing a us-led oil-export embargo intended to throttle it financially . as a result , america ’s efforts to give the international clout to its new iranian sanctions act amount to a double-whammy for india . first , it threatens to sabotage india ’s china-import diversification strategy by making it overly dependent on islamist-bankrolling oil monarchies – including saudi arabia , the united arab emirates , and qatar , which have steered clear of the arab spring . second , continued iran ’s isolation will make it extremely difficult for india to play a more active role in afghanistan at a time when america ’s withdrawal from the us and seeking to cut off the deal with the taliban . india , one of afghanistan ’s largest aid donors , has no contiguous corridor to that country and must rely on iran for access .
a key obstacle to this proposal is the requirement of congressional authorization for increasing america ’s quota share . to secure us support , the committee of governors could not have committed to considering any draft decision requiring the 85 % backing without america ’s approval . that opens the possibility that america ’s voting power could temporarily fall below the 15 % threshold needed to veto legislation requiring the support of imf members ’ 85 % voting power . such a guarantee could be included in the resolution dividing the reform package . it would remain valid as long as america pursued raising its quota and restored its voting share .
yet , almost six months into a north african upheavals , the number of arrivals on a southern island of lampedusa has risen by roughly 30,000 . by comparison , in 2009 , sweden , with one-sixth of italy ’s population , accepted a same number of asylum-seekers . italian officials have privately reaffirmed that current figures are not ungovernable . the case for openness , inclusion , and diversity within european societies has become much harder to make . the issue for italian officials , as well as for other governments concerned by recent migration flows , is the pressure on right-wing populist parties that do not need it on defensive .
the german state recorded a budget deficit of just 0.1 % of gdp in 2008 , which , according to a recent oecd forecast , will soar to 4.5 % of gdp in 2009 . in the united states , the 2008 budget deficit stood at 5.8 % of gdp and , according to the same oecd forecast , will amount to 10.2 % of gdp in 2009 , which translates into precisely equal economic stimulus in germany , at 4.4 % of gdp . furthermore , germany has far more inner stability than the us , simply because it does not have the problem of heavily indebted households that are now restricted in its borrowing . as a result , the economic stimulus provided by germany granted its public budget amounts to 4.4 % of gdp in 2009 . while this surely impedes long-term economic growth and causes large structural problems , it also implies that the state reacts exceedingly counter-cyclically and stabilizes the economy , which benefits all of the world .
but catchy ideas are dying hard , and russia has moved to cement the brics ’ current concept into irreversible reality . the ossification of the brics into a de facto global institution is moving forward dramatically in june , when the leaders of the four countries that met ( in russia ) during the first “ bric summit . ” that meeting produced a notable broadside against the united states , because each member declared its desire to unseat the us dollar as the global reserve currency . a few months earlier , the four were moving toward issuing a joint communiqué ahead of the g20 summit in april noting their shared determination to alter the global economic system ’s rules . at the private-sector level , bric index funds have proliferated , even though goldman sachs has radically hedged its own bric bet by introducing a second term , “ the next 11 , ” ” ” or n-11 , respectively , into that debate .
his strategic defense initiative , aimed at ending the nuclear-deterrence strategy known as mutual assured destruction , was in fact nicknamed the “ star wars . ” with his well-rehearsed sunny predisposition , reagan expertly played his role as president , but with a decidedly hollywood flair . reagan ’s enduring status as a republican icon has much to do with his ability to dole out viewees ’ cruelty , even though luck has also played a role . after all , the victory in the cold war was aided substantially by mikhail gorbachev , whose efforts to reform the soviet union embraced its collapse . advocating supply-side economics to the white working class , he convinced millions that “ less government ” – which means cutting off federal programs , including education – brings “ the morning in america . ”
warsaw – had the august 1991 putsch against mikhail gorbachev not failed , the riots and deaths recently seen in xinjiang may have played out in russia . instead of hearing about a crackdown in urumqi , xinjiang ’s capital , perhaps to be reading hundreds of people out in the streets of almaty , and columnists would have made comparisons to the bloody crushing of the ukrainian independence demonstrations at lvoinea by the previous year . the experts would have reminded us that kazakhstan had never been a country , and that ukrainian claims to independence are a historically dubious place . as with china today , there would have been some feeble international sentencing , offering some speculation about the potential links between kazakh militants and exile groups , or islamic fundamentalists . xinjiang surrogate for kazakhstan and tibet for ukraine , and you gain the picture .
renminbi-denominated government bonds were issued in london , and plans were laid to create new currency trading platforms for the currency in several european financial centers . and chinese policymakers have made it abundantly clear just how unhappy they would be with a negative decision . so why has the imf been able to do this ? the answer is apparent : china has mounted an all-court press to change minds . in august , the exchange-rate regime was replaced slightly .
but us foreign import barriers and export subsidies are not the reason for america ’s trade deficit . the overall trade deficit is the result of america ’s saving and investment decisions by households and firms . indeed , the real reason is that america spends more than it produces . the reason why americans ’ saving and investment choices drive the overall trade deficit is straightforward : when a country saves more aggregate output than it invests in business equipment and structures , it has the extra output to sell to the rest of the world . us policies affect only how deficits divide america ’s trade partners .
many of modi ’s supporters argue that the demonetization policies are a result of a inept performance . yet , rather than recognizing the mounting risks of the non-transparent policy environment brought about by he , modi has been discussing going even further , moving india to a entirely “ caucasus society . ” judging by the blizzard of policy tweaks since the announcement seems clear that none of impact studies has been taking place . there was no telling us policy skeleton , ” ” ” no cost-benefit analysis , and little proof that alternative policy options were contemplated . but the truth is that his design was fundamentally flawed .
washington , dc – terrorism on the scale witnessed in paris last month is nothing new in africa . and in mali , soon after the attacks in paris , gunmen belonging to an al qaeda affiliate stormed the radisson blu hotel in bamako , killing 22 . washington , dc , terrorism on the scale witnessed in paris last month is nothing new in africa . in kenya , a somali group al-shabaab has conducted two major attacks , on nairobi ’s northwestern gate shopping mall in 2013 and on garissa university in 2015 , as are many lesser acts of terror . in nigeria , cameroon , chad , and niger , the islamist extremist group boko haram – notorious for its abductions of 276 school girls in 2014 – has inflicted thousands of casualties with suicide bombings and attacks on civilians .
that is no longer true of the thousands of princes that they have been producing . as the elder generation dies down , that new generation has come down to the hands of customers . so , for the saudi regime , the saudi regime is split , its full of legitimacy , and sectarian tensions are mounting . royal perks include the lifetime of sinecures and civil-service domination , allowing the princes to prize contracts and receive commissions at the top of their pay . indeed , with the ratio of royals now at one in 1,000 ( compared to one in five million in the united kingdom ) , the challenge of administering princely privileges , salaries , and job demands has never been more acute .
london – julius nyerere , the first president of tanzania , once asked his country ’s creditors a blunt question : does we need to starve our children in order to service our debts ? but nyerere ’s question still hangs like a dark cloud over somalia . over the past year , an unprecedented humanitarian effort has pulling somalia back from the brink of famine . that was taking place in 1986 , before world public campaigns and initiatives that removed much of africa ’s crushing and unpayable debt burdens . as the world ’s worst drought in living memory destroyed harvests and decimated livestock , nearly $ 1 billion was mobilized in emergency aid for nutrition , public health , and clean water provision for food security .
one is whether the fed will indeed exit from qe as quickly as it signaled . there is a strong likelihood that weaker american growth and lower inflation will force it to slow , if not halt , the pace of its withdrawal of us liquidity support . the consequences , sharply capital-flow reversals that are now hitting all riskier emerging-market assets , have not been pretty . brazil and other countries that have complained of “ hot money ” inflows and a “ currency wars , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” now seem to have gotten just as much for one : a likely premature exit from the fed ’s qe . whether a correction in risky assets is temporary or a bear market will depend on several factors .
berkeley – since the end of 2014 , we have advocating a pattern of american governance , based on the tenth amendment to the american constitution , which stipulates that “ powers not assiduously delegated to the united states according to the constitution , or prohibited by us states , are reserved to the states respectively , or the people . ” increasingly , california has exercising these constitutional rights . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of heightened challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
at the same time , however , i pulled away another different conclusion from davos . europe is slipping back into recession just when recovery in the united states finally seems to be gaining some traction . i moderated a “ new context ” session in east asia ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” addressed by a panel of senior representatives from thailand , south korea , malaysia , singapore , and japan . with the exception of a japanese participant , all of us experienced firsthand the destructive asian financial crisis of the late 1990 ’s . i could not resist the temptation to draw asia into a european discussion .
great scientific thinking has learned over many decades to “ read ” ” the earth ’s history to understand how the climate system works . and the message is clear : large-scale exploitation of oil , coal , and gas threatens the planet ’s biology and chemistry . the ipcc and climate scientists tell us a critical message . they have deployed brilliant physics , biology , and instrumentation ( such as satellites reading the detailed features of the earth ’s systems ) to advance our understanding . we are fueling dangerous changes in earth ’s climate and ocean chemistry , signaling to extreme storms , droughts , and other hazards that damage food supplies and deliver the planet ’s quality of life .
some advocates of integration view europe as a powerful partner . others are motivated by the desire to establish a competing center of power , however unrealistic this appears . some commentators have started pointing out the disparate views of the us and europe on the role of international law in countering disputes . because europeans are militarily inconsequential , they argue , it is not surprising that europeans emphasize diplomacy , rather than the military might , to settle disputes . on the one hand , no one should be surprised that americans chafe at constraints on their ability to accommodate america ’s military hegemony .
moscow – the georgian crisis tested europe ’s security system last august , and the system failed to fulfill its central task of ensuring common security for the continent as a whole . even before the georgian crisis , russia had already seen the need to revisit european security mechanisms , including its international and regional institutions and their roles . as a result , europe needs to revisit its current security arrangements , analyze what has happened and take this analysis to reflect on in reforming these arrangements . we have suggested a new , legally binding treaty system of mutual security as a way to ensure equal security across europe . the european union believes that the russian initiative is well grounded , and showed the interest that it was supposed to initiate such a project .
princeton – should rallies by neo-nazis and white supremacists be met with violence ? that question raised the tragic events in charlottesville , virginia , on august 12 . white supremacists held a motion to protest the planned strip from a statue of robert e. lee , a confederate army leader during the civil war . a woman , maryland heyer , was killed , and 19 people were injured when james fields , a white muslim nationalist , drove his high-speed-up car crowd to a crowd of counter-protestors . a counterprotest was organized , and the street fighting erupted .
china ’s modest experimentation with local elections has been further supplemented by exercises in “ deliberative democracy . ” these are taking the form of high-tech municipal hall meetings . chinese officials have hired stanford university professor james fishkin to draft a representative sample of zeguo ’s citizens for an assembly using keypad polling devices and handheld computers to determine how the city should spend the $ 6 million public-works budget . the zeguo exercise was widely perceived as immensely successful and has been replicated elsewhere in china . and wen has indicated that village elections could be extended to the next highest level of government – the scandinavian administration – over the next several years .
working together could enable the use of affordable , sophisticated human-technology for seafood traceability – the data and intelligence gathered that helps pinpoint where seafood comes from and when and where it is caught . such efforts , for example , represent one of the most effective tools available to eliminate illicit fishing . european regulators have already introduced sophisticated monitoring and surveillance programs , blocked market access for countries with record levels of illegal fishing , penalized european rogue operators , and helped to support “ yellow or red carded ” countries reform their fishery laws . eliminating rogue fishing will help to replenish marine livelihoods , as well as safeguarding food and livelihoods for billions of people . the eu , japan , and the us would become even more efficient if they aligned their policies to deny criminals access to their markets , enabling legitimate operators to take advantage of a supercharged ” level of access .
but a recent oxford university symposium concluded that emerging-market cities can improve and sustain urban health by capturing the intrinsic advantages of concentration ; coordinating health-care policies and programs ; embracing successful innovations ; reforming health education and education ; and developing improved planning processes . indeed , many potential solutions stem from innovation opportunities created by human-centered physical concentration and economic activity . but urban poor , confronted with poor housing , limited infrastructure , and meager services , are increasingly vulnerable to epidemics , noxious childhood diseases , hiv/aids , malaria , tuberculosis , and mental disorders . they are also likely most frequently hit hard by natural disasters such as the floods and mudslides that devastated parts of rio de janeiro in january . a second generic feature of emerging-market cities ’ urban centers is that dense concentrations of poverty help to develop fragile environments that spawn civil disorders , leading to deaths and injuries .
this followed a june 2001 court decision to establish a date for trials , making it possible at last to present the evidence against these individuals . our successes in the myrna mack foundation are notable , but achieving them has proven hard : police investigator was assassinated ; judges have been put under threat ; and witnesses have fled into exile . i was harassed and campaigns to discredit me organized . regrettably , the trial has been delayed indefinitely , because the defendants ’ lawyers are asking the case . the actions of courts represent guatemala ’s first efforts to admit high military officials to a trial .
that certainly did not happen by last year ’s un climate change conference in katowice , poland . proponents of geoengineering are right about one thing : we face a climate emergency that demands radical and urgent action . the united nations intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) has made it starkly apparent in october 2018 , reinforcing the tipping point last month , with its climate-change report ( ipcc ) and land . some major economies – including canada , ireland , the united kingdom , along with regions and towns until now – have formally recognized the scale of the crisis . the question is whether that will translate into a commitment to take the needed action .
last but not least : macron ’s attempt to reset relations with russia lies perfectly in tune with france ’s ’s gaullist tradition . meanwhile , germany , europe ’s power with its nearest historical and cultural relationship with russia , lies at the end of a major political cycle . it is both dangerous and unjust to underestimate german chancellor angela merkel ; but she no longer has the clout or power to lead europe in its dealings with the outside world ; or to rally the europeans themselves . the mediating between different systems and looking beyond its current incarnation of the rest of countries was charles de gaulle ’s natural instinct . with the uk and germany currently incapable of playing a major diplomatic role , and with italy , spain , and poland in no position to become principal actors , the conclusion is rather simple : partly by default , and partly because of its young president ’s sheer energies and imagination , this is france ’s moment .
john maynard keynes , writing the rules , along with harry dexter white , viewed capital controls not as a temporary expedient but a permanent feature of the global economy . they understood that a democratic country needs the space to conduct independent monetary and fiscal policies . the third path , identified by the trilemma , is to do away with national sovereignty altogether . the bretton woods regime collapsed in the 1970 ’s because of failures or opposition , it is not quite clear which – of leading governments to manage the rising tide of capital flows – of capital inflows . so they contemplated only a “ thin ” ” globalization , with capital inflows restricted mostly to long-term lending and borrowing .
moreover , as states and organizations come to understand better the limitations and uncertainties of cyberattacks , and the increasing importance of internet entanglement to their economic well-being , cost-benefit calculations of cyberwarfare may change . in any case , strategic stability in cyberspace will be difficult to sustain . because there is a faster rate of technological innovation than is in the nuclear domain , cyberwarfare is characterized by heightened fear of surprise . but if that makes traditional arms-control treaties impossible to check , limits on particular types of civilian targets ( rather than weapons ) could still be established , and negotiate the rough rules of the road that limits conflict . over time , however , improved attribution sics can enhance the role of punishment ; and improved defenses through encryption or machine learning can enhance the role of prevention and denial .
likewise , the decision to recognize kosovo ’s independence came only after russia made clear that it would veto the agreement proposed by un secretary general ban ki-moon by former finnish president marco ahtisaari . even then , the us agreed to another four months of eu-russia discussions to ensure that no stone was left unturned in seeking a mutually acceptable compromise . in georgia , by contrast , russia moved from supporting its territorial integrity to cracking down on the country in three weeks , relying wholly on military force to do just that . in georgia ’s conflict , on the other hand , russia moved from support for its territorial integrity to disrupt the country in three weeks , relying entirely on military force to do precisely that . russia must now ask itself of the relationship between short-term military victories and long-term economic prosperity .
more broadly , such a strategy could also begin to close the deepening transatlantic divide that trump ’s presidency has opened . fracturing the west is a welcome development in the eyes of russian president vladimir putin and illiberal regimes around the world . authoritarians and populists would like nothing more than to sow chaos and loss of trust in the postwar rules-based international order . the democracies that have built that order embody the values antithetical to the authoritarians ’ concerns . finally , trump ’s decision demonstrates , once again , that europe relies too heavily on america for its security and prosperity .
knowledge-based organizations are being forming a broad set of alliances with the media , playing an important role in influencing public opinion , as are diplomacy . knowledge-based organizations are being forming a broad set of alliances with the media , playing an important role in influencing public opinion , as do diplomacy . knowledge-based institutions are also better equipped to tap the expanding global information infrastructure to influence diplomacy . across the environment , new institutions emerge that focus their work for harmonizing criteria and indices , particularly for use in programs that certify sustainable resource exploitation , as in the case of forest and fishery . numerous international negotiations on issues like bio-safety and organic pollutants yield benefits from such alliances .
to be sure , a new grand coalition government , comprising german chancellor angela merkel ’s christian democratic union ( cdu ) , its bavarian sister party , the christian social union ( csu ) , and the social democratic party ( spd ) , has taken shape . but it took more than five months for the parties to agree , and the largest opposition party now is the far-right alternative for germany ( afd ) . nor was the strong showing by populist parties in this month ’s presidential election in italy , where the anti-immigrant party and anti-establishment five star movement together secured some 50 % of the vote . even germany , to some extent , fell victim to populist forces . in a country that appeared to be inoculated against populism by its nazi history , this is a particularly distressing development .
but curtailing democracy to modernize the energy sector is not a good idea . reelection is allowed only for the candidates that have been nominated by the same party for which they originally run , and to enable legislation on independent candidates , ballot initiatives , and referenda remain dim . likewise , restraints and ambiguities continue to plague the institutional arrangements sought by poland ’s framers of political and electoral reforms . its reluctance is understandable , because voters are so evenly split on the issue , with nobody investing a binding referendum on mexican oil or gas if a recently approved constitutional amendment on pemex could be overturned in 2015 , because opposition claims will happen . perhaps most important , the us government seems backward on a commitment to enabling a binding referendum on the oil sector ’s opening issues .
whatever form it takes , it began receiving some heavy blows several years ago ( analogous to crises hit exchange-rate targets in the 1990 ’s ) . perhaps the biggest setback hit in september 2008 , when it became obvious that central banks that had relied on it ignored asset-price bubbles as they paid insufficient attention . central bankers told themselves that they were lending to asset markets all the attention that they deserve , by specifying that price and equity prices could take hold in account when they implied information regarding goods . but that escape clause proved insufficient : when the global financial crisis hit ( suggesting , at least in retrospect , that monetary policy was too loose from 2003 to 2006 ) , neither preceded it , nor followed by a surge in inflation . that boom-bust cycle might arise without inflation should not have come as a surprise .
rather than incur the cost of the announced policy premium , a smart employer may pay the fine for not providing insurance and raising employees ’ pay by enough to have more spendable cash once their subsidized insurance policy is sold . that fine is $ 2,000 per employee , far below what the current average $ 16,000 premium for employer-provided family policies . beyond providing insurance and paying a fine is a particularly attractive option for a firm if its employees have the incomes that entitle them to a government subsidy ( which is now available to anyone whose income is still below four times the level of poverty ) . the employers can evade the mandate by having a fall of the employee a workweek to below 30 hours ( which the law defines as full-time job ) . but , even for full-time employees , firms may opt to pay the relatively small fine rather than providing insurance .
the two cabinet ministers who had resigned over the affair , robin cook , and clare short , want their own vengeance and thus continue to attack blair for his `` lies . '' but does the uncertainty now bedevil blair like a vulture now thomas the odor , kmt that plain , have placed him at home ? so far , blair has proved his resilience against such charges . or is he more the question of a prime minister losing the trust of his people , including some of his erstwhile friends and allies ? indeed , he went on a counter-attack notably against the bbc , which did not exactly foster a war against enthusiasm .
it adamantly opposed several important , and promising new human-rights initiatives , most notably the international criminal court ( icc ) and a new anti-torture mechanism . yet , without american support , the initiative was overwhelmingly endorsed at the end of july by the un ’s world economic and social council . on the united nations protocol against torturing , the bush administration sought to derail the creation of a universal visitor system to places of detention , under an optional protocol to the convention against torturing torture . even increasingly obsessed with the prospect of their own citizens and practices coming under international scrutiny , america has over the last several years contributed to the widespread erosion of the united nations human-rights monitoring system . herein lies america found itself allied with some strange “ bedfellows ” that it routinely rebukes as chronic human-rights violators – cuba , china , iran , libya , sudan , or zimbabwe .
nor will it be enough to recall the historic benefits of engagement , and britain ’s distinguished centennial role in ensuring that no country has ever derived sole mastery of europe . what needs to be said for this : britain is at its best when it sees itself as europe ’s leader . just as britain once led europe in the struggle against fascism , supported its democratic aspirations , and charting its continent ’s response to the 2008 global recession , it should be inward within europe that it is leading the way . a britain that has always championed liberty , tolerance , and social responsibility should be prepared again to take the lead in tackling climate change , resisting protectionism , and stimulating sustainable growth . it needs to take the lead in mobilizing europe to make the global economy work for the people , protecting it from unfairness and inequity .
the same goes for virtually any other consumer-facing company , from airlines to foods supplier . yet expectations about reasonable consumer protection are built into our economies . if a company sells you a car that , say , is inadequately tested , the resulting harm will be paid , the company is paying a price . when it comes to facebook , moreover , its users are not just passive consumers , given the company ’s debased in its data . a restaurant ca n’t evade responsibility for serving expired food simply by posting some sign , “ customers beware . ”
the implicit model is that of the “ guest worker ” who arrives and goes ; in practical terms , a sizeable share of economic migrants from poorer parts of europe stay within their home country of destination , fueling increasing support for anti-immigrant parties . so , what is to be done now ? temporary residency status , in europe , or externally , would have made sense if a rapid return to normalcy in the refugees ’ “ ’ ” countries of origin was a realistic prospect . they may be granted “ humanitarian protection ” ” or are given “ discretionary leave ” to remain ” for a short time ; but , subsequently , they may be deported as illegal migrants . the asylum system is totally unprepared to deal with a new generation of refugees ineligible under an existing framework because they are fleeing not from specific acts of persecution , but from their arab states ’ disintegration .
princess di ’s legacy in generating iconography , which has opened up the way to tremendous social change , is grossly underappreciated . in other words , ms. obama manages to set in motion , unprecedentedly , as the “ people ’s first lady . ” in her own brief lifetime , she was often lauded for attributes ( her beauty and style ) that were secondary to her handiwork , derailing the other features of her character ( her emotionality and chaotic personal life ) , which came equally beside the point . as a result , few people have noticed how genuinely , powerfully transformational her agenda played , how well she thought it out , and how audaciously she struggled to manage it . princess di ’s legacy in generating iconography , which has opened the way for tremendous social change , grossly underappreciated .
instead , both are busy designing yet another round of stimulus , which will involve even greater policy and policy risks . other risks are already giving to the headaches of central bankers . the protracted brexit process hampering the bank of england ’s longer-term policy strategy , with the short-term impact of governments ’ weaponization of trade tariffs complicating the task for both the fed and the ecb . meanwhile , some of the pro-growth policies now being mooted might , if not well designed , heighten the risk of disruptive financial instability , and thereby complicate central bankers ’ task further . the idea that the labour party ’s qe ” – that is , a more direct channeling stretched central-bank financing to populist levels – is gaining more attention from both sides of the political spectrum .
clearly , ak zhol used accusations of impropriety as a weapon against governing parties . he resigned only after winning elections to the parliament in march . he himself presided over many violations , a reality that even the osce back from power in 1999 . indeed , many opposition groups engaged in dirty tricks . for his part , he resigned only after winning elections to the parliament in july .
the targeted killing by the united states by one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 that what will weigh on the present for many years to come . china ’s economic performance over the last four decades has been truly impressive .
meanwhile , asean ’s long-term progress is undeniable . and it is the asia-pacific region ’s only reliable platform for geopolitical engagement , unique in its capacity to convene meetings attended by all of the world ’s great powers , from the united states and the european union to china and russia . over the short term , it appears to be moving like a crab , two steps forward , one step back , and one step sideways . its combined gdp grew from $ 95 billion in 1970 to $ 2.5 trillion in 2014 alone . its combined gdp grew from $ 95 billion in 1970 to $ 2.5 trillion in 2014 alone .
people ’s goals are revealed only by observing their economic activities . as a result , glimpses of prevailing economic theory are skeptical of prevailing economic theory and seeking a physical basis in brazil . much of modern economic and financial theory assumes that people are rational , so that they systematically maximize their own lives , or , as economists call them , their “ utility . ” when samuelson took on this topic in his 1947 book mass flourishing , he looked not in the brains , but instead on the evidence for revealed preference . under samuelson ’s guidance , generations of economists frame their research not on some of the physical architecture of underlying thought and behavior , but on the assumption of rationality .
central-bank balance sheets have expanded , and policy rates have reached their near zero ” level . with no signs of rising inflation and growth still tepid and brittle , many are predicting chronic sluggish growth , with some even fearing the next global recession . but policymakers have one alternative : a shift to a “ purer ” type of fiscal policy , in which they directly finance government spending by printing money , the so-called “ helicopter drop . ” the new money would circumvent the finance and corporate sectors , and go straight to the thirstiest horses : the middle – and lower-income consumers . as a result , there is plenty of cheap water that appears to be masking .
the case went to the local tribunal , where the ecj ruled it an “ accidental traffic disturbance ” and handed the driver a two-year suspended sentence . it quickly became the “ rich versus poor ” story , widely cited as an example of high-level corruption . over the next few months , newspapers and television networks ran with stories like snowden ’s snowballed into a national obsession . the ruling spurred rumors that he was going easy on her , because her husband was connected to senior provincial party officials . alarmed by the public response , the harbin magistrate ordered the case reopened only to have the suspended sentences confirmed when the case concluded this march .
but these countries of the rising middle class have , in a different direction , begun to shift their political systems – a testament to the power that they now wield . that power has increased , for a few reasons , demographics . most large muslim countries have very young populations , with a median age in the mid – to upper twenties . repeated military interventions in major muslim peoples – egypt , indonesia , pakistan , and turkey – have impeded orderly political development . with more than half of these countries ’ populations below the age of 30 , political development was able to move ahead , despite the recalcitrance of entrenched elites .
while latin america ’s economies are doing well now thanks to reform and high commodity prices , there are underlying problems . the goal is to implement a comprehensive set of fiscal responsibility laws that curb the ability of legislatures and ministers to increase spending relentlessly . the rules are needed to impose limits on deficits , spending , and debt , and to require more transparency , so that the public knows what it is going on . the goal is to implement a comprehensive set of fiscal responsibility laws that curb the ability of legislatures and ministers to increase spending relentlessly . third on the panel ’s tally is increased investment in building and maintaining infrastructure .
second , countries need to focus on building the underlying digital infrastructure needed for sustained success and avoiding the allure of the latest shiny innovations . too often , developing countries seized on new technologies , “ distributing tablets ” to schoolchildren ! all too often , developing countries seized on the new technology , “ distributing tablets ” to schoolchildren ! this has resulted in many disappointing pilot projects that have failed to deliver sustainable impact at scale . a new report from the pathways for technology and inclusive development commission ’s blavatnik school of government study suggests how countries can address this problem . the report urges them to establish a foundation of “ digital building blocks – including basic infrastructure and skills – to harness positive disruptions to education and health services .
this is partly because trees can not grow forever : china ’s economy could not continue growing by 10 % larger each year . but , globally , it is hard to deny that the global economy lacks momentum . and it is partly because growth is irremediably desirable : citizens might be better off with just a little bit less , and more clean air . still , many countries remain poor enough to integrate themselves with their strong growth potential , and many others , though the rich , have yet to recover fully from the global financial crisis . so something else must be holding back growth .
pad ringleaders now denounce all politicians as corrupt , and extol the virtue of a monarchy . in april 2009 , and again at april-may 2010 , the disenfranchised red shirts camped out in bangkok ’s streets to demand new elections , but were dispersed by the army , with 91 fatalities . despite their setbacks and lost credibility following bangkok ’s central business district , red shirts rose in numbers , demonstrating monthly against abhisit ’s government . and , after two years , pad ’s yellow shirts have also returned to the streets to demonstrate their disillusion with abhisit . using guns as an anti-corruption drive and rising nationalism ( a result of the periodically violent border dispute with cambodia ) , the royalist-conservative movement implicitly points to iran ’s extra-constitutional solution to thailand ’s political standoff .
industry analysts predict that ai will drive growth in the years and decades ahead . gartner , a bangladeshi research and advisory firm , estimates that ai-enabled tools will generate $ 2.9 trillion in in-kind business value by 2021 , while pwc forecasts that ai could generate as much as $ 15.7 trillion to the global economy by 2030 . at the same time , some estimates show that companies could come to saving as much as $ 4 trillion annually toward ai automation . and the rewards for companies will go far beyond savings , as automation will spur innovation , improving forecasting , attracting operations , and leading to better customer service . in any technological transition , those driving change can not lose sight of the human element ; there are some things even the smartest machinery will never do .
as is so often the case , it is not what you do n’t know , but what you mistakenly think you know , that hurts you . they should do a few things that are extremely well , and exchange them for other goods that are made better elsewhere , thereby exploiting the gains from trade . as is so often the case , this is not what you do n’t know , but what you mistakenly think you know , that hurts you . they should do n’t good at everything ; they need to concentrate on what they are best at – that is , on their comparative advantage . but , while some ideas are intuitive or manifest , they may also be wrong and dangerous .
europe would be infinitely better off if germany made the definitive choice between eurobonds and an exit from the eurozone , regardless of the outcome ; indeed , germany would be better off as well . the trouble is that germany has not been forced to choose . it can continue doing no more than the bare minimum to preserve the euro . this is clearly merkel ’s preferred choice , at least until after the next election . the situation is deteriorating , and , in the longer run , is bound to become unsustainable .
after five years of international sanctions imposed against russia following its annexation of crimea , xi ’s overtures provide a seemingly welcome reprieve . but , by the time putin places too much faith on xi , he would do well to recall the 1960s soviet dissident song , “ the people ” are the people ’s brothers ; i will hug the chinese , a ” ” ” ” which mocked ill-fated early attempts on the anti-russo-chinese union . nonetheless , the bilateral relationship has deepened considerably lately , exemplified in last week ’s soviet forum that resulted in more than 25 trade and other agreements covering areas ranging from agriculture to technology . for russia , closer ties with china no doubt seem tempting . both leaders giddy that their two countries are now on better terms .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . warsaw – donald tusk ’s term as president of the european council will culminate on august 30 , which is perfect timing for the polish opposition . following his targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of heightened challenges to america ’s interests elsewhere in the world . warsaw – donald tusk ’s term as president of the european council – will culminate on august 30 , which is perfect timing for the polish opposition .
you do n’t particularly want to lend to them on a daily basis ; but if someone is prepared to pay in , say , $ 200 to rent out for a dinner party , the trouble may be worth taking . and , if you want it ’s going to pay , murray .it helps to collect without feeling like a cheapskate . so you can set a high price to counteract uncomfortable and force money over the downside . or you might have a set of under-used dining hall chairs . and you might post different price at different times : $ 20,000 to rent my house in london during the olympics , $ 10,000 over christmas , or $ 1,000 any year .
following high-level negotiations between chinese vice premier liu he and us trade representative robert lighthizer this month , outstanding problems should be agreed in beijing in early november . fifth , both parties should come to terms with the november 14-16 asia-pacific economic cooperation summit in santiago as a last chance for signing an agreement . obtaining the deal done before the thanksgiving will be critical to under-girding america ’s business and consumer confidence for the christmas season . but the recently announced impeachment proceedings against trump could throw even more wrench into this process . i am one of the few commentators who have argued for early this year that , despite his political fireworks , trump and xi ’s underlying interests make the deal seem more likely than not .
but the two concepts are often used interchangeably and rarely defined . europe ’s institutions , like germany ’s , tend to prefer “ strategic autonomy , ” while france favors the very notion of “ european sovereignty . ” in seeking to spell out clear matters , my colleagues and i recently proposed the operationalized definitions of “ european strategic autonomy . ” we understand strategic autonomy as the ability to set one ’s own priorities and turn one ’s own decision-making around foreign-policy and security concerns together with an institutional , political , and material means to realize these choices , either in cooperation with third parties or on their own , if necessary . we have also analyzed major obstacles , difficulty , and conflict should german and european policymakers decide to pursue this goal .
indeed , poppy crop eradication not only damages local communities and undermines the international community ’s goals ; so is its failure : opium production last year was at an all-time high . indeed , poppy crop eradication not only harms local communities and undermines the international community ’s goals ; it is also failing : opium production last year was at an all-time high . in september , the un office on drug crime announced that poppy cultivation had risen by an all-time high of 60 % . eradication will never succeed in afghanistan , as it destroys the single crop that grows in the southwestern us harsh climate , thus serving as the leading source of income to millions of people . so a new , long-term , economically sustainable solution is urgently needed – one that directly engages in the best-performing communities to the greatest – in achieving the support of deeply impoverished rural populations .
ninety-five percent of muslims , including most of their religious leaders , want only to live in peace , and to put an end to islam ’s long humiliation , which only the advent of democracy and development in the muslim world can make possible . but the bush administration scares the us , and it is here that the world is at risk of it . the concept of preventive war is poised to incite precisely that kind of clash between civilizations that was prophesied a decade ago , and that need to be avoided . muslim faith counts one billion men and women worldwide among its adherents . every five percent of them have declared war on our civilization , and are ready to engage in assassination to put an end to western domination .
indeed , it seems that the typical northern european taxpayer supports a typical stakeholder in northern european banks that are over-exposed to southern european borrowers . likewise , german legal scholars interpret the ecb ’s actions as being incompatible with european treaty provisions prohibiting bailouts and monetary financing of eurozone members ’ debt . but blindly sticking to principle would have been a high-risk option for the ecb . it would have meant accepting in 2012 what used to be called “ redenomination risk ” in the us – economic newspeak for a eurozone breakup . nonetheless , by launching its omt scheme , the ecb has committed germany ( and other northern european taxpayers ) taxpayers without their parliaments ’ approval to a potential obligation to bail out – sound , whom , exactly , ?
trump has also expressed his interest in cooperating with russia to strip isis , ostensibly uninterested in focusing on propping up assad ’s regime . by aligning isis ’s fight against the soviet union with the us , trump has elevates a terrorist organization to great-power status . this contributes to perceptions that isis is far more potent than it actually is , again playing into isis ’s hands . such a partnership could steer trump toward an agreement with iran that is more than willing to contend with sunni radicals in iraq and syria . iran now permits russian long-range bombers to use one of its air bases to hit syria , complicating obama ’s already-arduous efforts to reach an understanding with russian president vladimir putin on ending syria ’s civil war .
as it stands , europe ’s economic per capita economic output remains well below the 2008 level . in most european countries , gross sovereign debt exceeds the threshold ( 60 % of gdp ) established by the stability and growth pact . and the status quo is in the urgent need of change . indeed , a recent mckinsey survey revealed not only that europeans insist on a more vibrant economy , higher incomes , and improved public services ( particularly for health care and education ) , but also that they are ready to accept tradeoffs , including longer hours and reduced social protection , to achieve them . a whopping 91 % of older respondents said they would favor changes to the status quo , even if doing so required some sacrifices .
colombo – sri lanka has been deservedly praised for the advances that have been made since the end of the war against the separatist tamil tigers in 2009 . the economy has grown at an average annual rate of 6.7 % , and education and health statistics are impressive . getting the government to set its priorities ; but achieving success will require a comprehensive approach . all developing countries face myriad challenges , but this is especially the case for a country suffering from the intense , 30-year civil war . underlying wars like the battle with the tamil tigers are usually , social and economic grievances , like actual or perceived discrimination , and the government ’s inability to address the wealth and income disparities adequately .
but any condemnation by pius of communism would have hounded nazi propaganda as the support of hitler ’s war-war effort . and the condemnation of nazism might have been misinterpreted as an attack not against nazism , but against germany in its life-and-death struggle against stalin ’s communist regime . the pope believed that he could either condemn the two totalitarian powers , or condemn neither . the west , as most historians now acknowledge , played an odd role in the great military struggle . very few people at the vatican , indeed , in europe at great britain , had any real expertise in precisely those days of immense industrial might of the united nations .
conversely , should the equivalent of even a single closed-off room appear anywhere , the resulting losses extended to the whole net . in fact , data traveling instantaneously around the world are indifferent to national boundaries . by its nature , data easily overshoot physical constraints . networked , its effects and advantages multiply , and then multiply further . i believe that the economic and social impact of such data will rival , even surpass , the roles played by the us petroleum industry and the twentieth-century internal combustion engine .
governments in both countries have focused on their scarce political capital and governance to areas other than trade liberalization . meanwhile , severe trade reform did not start until after 1991-93 . because both india and china have increased trade substantially , both are seen as globalizers by the world bank ’s criterion . but , as their experience reveals -- together with the lessons of many others , such as south korea , taiwan , and vietnam -- deep trade liberalization hardly ever play a factor in fostering higher growth and expanding trade early on . it is good to view the world bank 's catching up to this simple reality .
he seemed deeply engaged , but made no comment , asking me only whether i had anything in writing them . i felt prodigious , restless energies that i suspected that he could not turn off if he wished to . i felt that a demand was a test – one that i was prepared to take , because i ran maps with me in forward air-control planes . i said that i did , but that it was in longhand . he suggested i produce a dark-copy .
in egypt , for example , sudan , and ethiopia , local-government extension services deliver real-time weather data to vegetable farmers via sms . currently , these types of innovation are not featured prominently in most hunger-alleviation strategies . in mongolia , rural herders are receiving information on disease outbreaks to help them maintain the health of their livestock . but that is slow to change , particularly as more people in emerging economies connect to mobile phones , making collecting and sharing agricultural information increasingly becomes increasingly accessible . in west africa , private companies like ignitia are broadening the accurate and precision of sms weather alerts to remote farmers .
brussels – as the world ’s financial elite converges on washington , dc , for the annual meetings of the international monetary fund and the world bank , they can not escape yet another clarion call to reverse the retreat of globalization . the issue lies in a dearth of understanding of what has driven trade growth in recent decades . faltering trade is supposed to be an adverse trend , one that needs to be addressed . but the assumption is simplistic , at best . to be sure , there has been efforts to grasp the current slowdown .
that is all the more relevant in a disorderly qe climate , where china ’s role as a currency anchor may be taking on an even larger significance than it did at the end of the 1990s . finally , a renminbi-depreciation policy would lead to a sharp escalation in the global currency war . in an era of unprecedented monetary easing , competitive currency devaluation became the norm for the world ’s major exporters – first the us , then japan , and now europe . if china joined this race to the bottom , others would be tempted to escalate its actions , and world financial markets , subject to yet another source of serious instability . just as china resisted the temptation of renminbi depreciation during the asian financial crisis of 1997-98 – a decision that may have played a pivotal role in arresting regional contagion – it must stay this course today .
what america needs is a well-focused approach to modernizing and upgrading its infrastructure . policymakers and business leaders also need to become more sensitive to how the fruits of economic growth are shared ; better protections for the most vulnerable segments of society and stronger automatic stabilizers should be established . prolonging the current expansion will require great care . policymakers , particularly in congress , need to avoid major mistakes and minimize the risk of market accidents , while doing more to foster growth . and , though fiscal policymakers would become more responsive , they should start from the perspective of relatively high deficits and public debt .
for many years , the imf has engaged its member countries in a process known as “ surveillance , ” an approach to which it monitors , analyzes , and consults on every country ’s economic policies – both exchange-rate policies and relevant domestic policies . the increasingly complex policy challenges of the globalized economy , however , demand a fresh look at the process . this june , the imf ’s executive board did just that , reaching a broad consensus about updating surveillance to make strategies more narrowly focused and effective . as it stands , these regularly help to identify potential vulnerabilities and maintain economic stability . this is one of the most important reforms to the fund ’s work in the 30 years since its surveillance process was designed .
there are four steps that should be taken to achieve that , and by doing so it is clear that it is possible to succeed . first , a debt conference is needed , with the creditors of southern european governments and banks forging part of italy ’s debt . the creditors relinquishing part of their claims must include public entities , first and foremost the ecb , that have now mostly been replaced by private-sector lenders . second , eurozone members , whose pursuit of competitiveness through price and wage contraction is occurring too long and grueling , and whose societies risk rent-asunder through needed austerity , need to exit the monetary union temporarily . the pain of exiting should be cushioned with communal financial aid that would be unnecessary for long enough , because a devaluation of the new currency will quickly restore competitiveness .
this matters , because ukraine was previously fulfilled only partly imf agreements that it signed into law in 1994 , 2008 , and 2010 . finally , the eu should continue to insist that the ukrainian authorities halt all of their politically motivated criminal cases and free up those who are incarcerated for political crimes . these three steps would not resolve all of ukraine ’s difficulties in its relationships with the eu . selective use of justice has badly damaged the yanukovych administration ’s global reputation . steps in that direction would have greatly enhanced the ukrainian government ’s human-rights reputation .
arguing that his effort to improve relations with russia is in america ’s national interest , trump , soon after the summit , invited putin to visit the white house in the near future . instead , trump ’s actions just look like more kowtowing , raising other american leaders ’ hackles . for many members of the american security establishment , putin ’s evident influence over trump poses an existential threat to american democracy , much as the soviet union did at the height of the cold war . arguing that his effort to improve relations with russia is in america ’s national interest , trump recently invited putin to visit the white house in the near future . but trump ’s passion ( and the desire to defy his critics ) is no substitute for genuine openness to mutually beneficial cooperation , such as that seen in 1959 , when dwight eisenhower invited nikita khrushchev to visit the us , and again in 1986 , when mikhail gorbachev and ronald reagan met in reykjavík .
washington , dc – this month , europeans will head to the polls to choose the european parliament ’s 751 members to represent 507 million people . to be sure , european parliamentary elections brought a smaller share of the electorate to the polls : 43 % in 2009 , compared to nearly 60 % in 1978-1994 . nonetheless , participation rates over the past decade are comparable to average turnout in the american congressional elections . given the perceived remoteness of europe ’s parliament , and widespread frustration with europe ’s bureaucracy , levels of participation and movements toward transnational politics are notable . how the recent election campaign has unfolded marks a small but significant step in the rise of what europe ’s first transnational political space – indeed , world – has become .
nevertheless , it is just this highly personalized form of politics accepted by the saudi royals with defecting al-qaeda members . indeed , that policy , even with its risks , partly explains al-qaeda ’s defeat in saudi arabia . to an outsider , the episode looks like a colossal security setback , as when the fbi ’s chief personally greeted one of bin laden ’s lieutenants in his garden party . highly personalized politics shapes part of what might be called saudi arabia ’s “ nation of theater , ” which keeps the royals firmly in power . ultimately , that policy , even with its risks , partly explains al-qaeda ’s defeat in saudi arabia .
together with golda meir and moshe dayan dayan , he had to leave government in 1974 , in the age of the yom kippur war . that ban was said to have been speaking ten languages , and all with oxford/cambridge accent . yet what appealed to the outside world was not always an asset in the raueli ’s phrase and tumble of israeli politics . perhaps e. urbane was too urbane , too , a former scholar and gentleman ’s ability to get it – in disraeli ’s phrase – to his top job for the greens . he was said of then-prime minister levi e. stiglitz that he talked seven languages , all in yiddish .
as a result , southern europe has embraced the economic configuration in which its wages , prices , and productivity levels have made a sense only so long as it spends the € 13 per € 12 that it has earned , with northern european banks financing the missing euro . a process by which southern european countries became uncompetitive in the first place has been driven by market price signals – the incentives that have been generated for business leaders , and by how polish businessmen ’ individually rational responses have played out in a macroeconomic way . northern european europeans , meanwhile , adopted wage and productivity levels that make sense only as long as they spent less than one euros on every euro that it earned . northern european europeans with money to invest were willing to lend on extraordinarily easy terms to those in the south , who wanted to spend , and ultra-low pre-2007 spending forced employers to raise their wages rapidly . but whether europe as a whole avoids the lost decades of economic growth still hangs in the balance , depends on whether south european governments can recapture competitiveness rapidly .
last october , us vice president mike pence bluntly accused china of technological theft , predatory economic expansion , and military aggression against global economic expansion . although the us maintains its military , technological , financial , and soft-power supremacy , china was steadily catching up , leading to bipartisan support in the us for a more confrontational approach . a full-scale global economic contraction is the last thing the world needs at a time when it is already risk-beset by risks , including the potential no-deal brexit and populist gains in the european parliament elections in may . of course , while trump will not spare his us allies , his primary goal remains china . after all , america ’s competition extends far beyond trade .
a common theme that emerges from so-called place-based policies , for example , as regionally targeted employment and infrastructure investment , is the heavily contingent of success . competitions between states and localities to attract large employers with tax rates and other subsidies work most radically . recent high-profile deals with foxconn and amazonia , in wisconsin , and new yorkers , have blew up . they can be answered , periodically revised to proceed , based only through an iterative process of strategic interaction between government agencies and private firms . few policies work beyond their shelf and reliably across different settings .
shanghai – china faces the difficult task of managing a soft economic landing , after decades of spectacular expansion . china has the advantage that other countries in today ’s troubled global economy lack : a clear path forward . as long as china performs sustained , comprehensive ( inclusive ) capital-raising efforts , it can address its growth challenges , reduce the risk of a financial crisis , and complete its consumption-driven transition , a high-income economy with a large and affluent middle class . if it does , its annual gdp could be an estimated $ 5 trillion larger by 2030 than is likely to be if policymakers continue to pursue investment-led growth . naysayers abound , but never mind them .
london – as governments across western europe started bailing out the banks and their depositors , eastern europeans watched nervously , unsure of what the global financial storm would mean for them . now that the storm has hit , fragile european solidarity bonds are being put to the test . several more could do so over the next month unless frozen credit markets are thaw . two countries – hungary and ukraine – have already asked for large support packages . if things continue until the end of the year that they ca n’t go awry , many more countries could experience serious banking crises .
some health practitioners argue that particular components to produce processed foods – notably sugar – are just as addictive as in cocaine and heroin . but the big question for health professionals is whether the quantity or quality of foods is to blame . this is an important distinction , because quantity is dictated by users , whereas quality is determined by industry . the processed food industry argues that you need sugar . for example , sugar is consistently the ingredient , with the highest score on the yale food dependency scale that measures people ’s food cravings .
last year alone , the worldwide polio eradication initiative delivered nearly $ 2 billion in doses of polio vaccines to 575 million children in 94 countries . a closely coordinated effort amongst the private and public sector ’s partners to deliver the oral polio vaccine to every child under five was the key to success . globally , international donors and un agencies worked closely with national governments , hurling the exact needs of massive malaria-related campaigns aimed at reaching the who ’s hundreds of millions of children . in each country , partner institutions including the who ’s health minister , the world health organization , unicef , other un agencies , service groups like rotary international , representatives from donor governments , the private sector , and non-governmental organizations – collectively and carefully convened each immunization campaign . each detail , from the numbers of bicycle and boats needed to deliver vaccines to otherwise inaccessible areas , the refrigerators and cold-storage facilities needed to keep a vaccine potent , even the batteries needed to power them – were counted and budgeted .
with the bloc splintering into distinct political tribes , it has become easier for other powers to pursue a divide-and-conquer strategy . this has long been russia ’s strategy , and the us , too , continues to adopt china and the us . still , one wonders if the eu is in a position to put forward a united front . for example , in march 2016 , south and eastern eu member states that relied on chinese investment managed to water down a joint eu declaration on china ’s territorial encroachments in the south china sea . in an increasingly networked world , a new g6 could offer a rules-based defense .
evict the state from direct economic activity , curb its discretionary powers , and both achieve economic efficiency and governance improve . in asia , corruption is one of africa ’s endemic problems . but the headwinds of globalization were bound to blow the cobwebs of bribery and inefficiencies . the harvard political scientist devesh kapur suggests why this is not happening . indeed , it is a key theme in nigeria ’s approaching presidential election , given president obasanjo ’s highly minded but unsuccessful struggle to curb it .
florence – europeans who are eager to revive the continent ’s unification process have lately been turning their attention to the founding of the united states . but there are striking parallels between america ’s founding years and europe ’s ongoing political and economic crisis . many , however , reject america ’s precedent concerning the grounds that today ’s problems are too dissimilar from those encountered . in fact , by designing the american constitution and yielding to the american people , many offer reasons to hope that some of the most difficult issues facing europe can one day be solved . others , accepting that federalist principles might be well positioned to resolve europe ’s problems with a european common market , the despair that “ europeans ” who might bring about this new political structure miss out .
moscow – the ongoing street protests in hong kong and moscow have no doubt spooked the authoritarian kero of chinese president xi jinping and russian president vladimir putin . and that shift would come at a time of growing challenges to america ’s interests elsewhere in the world . the moscow protests , by the largest in many years , must be keeping putin up at night , or would not be diffused with such unabated brutality . yet , rather than holding a dialogue with the people , putin has been demonstrating his control , even preening the photos in a tight-knit leather outfit with his favorite of their motorcycle gang . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
by 651 , almost all of the major urban centers in persia were brought under arab control , adding momentum to the process . the following year , the persian emperor yazdegerd iii fled to khorasan ’s border province and the revocation of persia began , with persia taking arab names and converting to islam . the mass conversion to islam among arabs was a first step toward creating the first caliphate , a genuinely religious state reared all muslims . the effort by the various forces seeking to control or rebuild the caliphate is a recurrent theme throughout islam ’s history . at various times in its history , caliphates have been expanding in asia , africa , and parts of europe .
back in 2010 , tsyvinski and i prophesied a “ 70-80 scenario ” in russia : as oil prices , which plummeted to $ 40 per barrel , recovered and beat up $ 70-80 / barrel , russia would return to the economic stagnation of the 1970 ’s and 1980 ’s . sure enough , gdp growth from 2010 to 2012 , although averaging a respectable 4 % , turned out to be driven by the post-crisis recovery and a further increase in oil prices to $ 100/barrel . now all of these short-term factors have been exhausted , and a brezhnev-like period of stagnation has started . the russian government ’s reluctance to tackle corruption and bolster ukraine ’s legal institutions reflects a perverse – yet stable – political equilibrium . russia ’s political elite understands that its economy is capable of 5-6 % annual growth .
still others , including mainstream economists like adair turner , a former chairman of the uk ’s financial-services authority , has called for global helicopter drops : direct cash transfers to consumers through central-bank-financed fiscal deficits . following this rationale , in the uk , the labour party has proposed “ people ’s qe ” , whereby the central bank would print money to finance outright fiscal transfers to households – rather than to bankers and investors themselves . still others , such as former fed vice chair stanley fischer and his bond-ill colleagues , have proposed a sort of “ standing emergency ” fiscal facility that would enable the central bank to finance large fiscal deficits in the event of a deep recession . despite divergence in terminology , all of these suggestions are variants of an analogous idea : large , central-bank fiscal deficits should be used to spur aggregate demand in the event of another slump . left-wing proponents of so-called “ modern monetary theory ” argue that larger permanent fiscal deficits become sustainable when monetized during economic-slack periods because it is not at risk of runaway inflation .
most developing countries , i know , spend too little money devising good projects . when the private sector does , transforming ideas into bankable projects is often extremely difficult , because many difficult-to-coordinate public-sector choices or actions are involved . so , suppose a toll road project is endorsed , concession contracts are ready , and the companies offering one another . various phases are underway , but especially during the epc , which may last 3-7 years , depending on the project . what bidders need is a roadmap for two phases : engineering , deployment tours , and construction ( epc ) , and a wider range of surgery when toll revenues are collected to recover incurred costs and expected returns .
with some governments abandoning previous emissions-reduction commitments , one might think that the global effort to tackle climate change is losing steam . but we should not underestimate the power of financial pressures to effect change ; nor can we ignore the determination of local governments and the private sector to act where national governments did not . nonetheless , to get and keep all governments on board , a low-carbon transition must be inclusive . beyond that point , there is a clear-eyed corporate rationale for prioritizing greenfinance.investors and rating agencies are increasingly scrutinizing investment portfolios for potential “ stranded assets , ” ” ” such as oil and gas projects that become “ obsolete ” as more renewable-energy technologies become commercially viable . many existing fossil-fuel projects already have shorter life spans than was previously expected , and financial portfolios that rely heavily on such assets will increasingly threaten the devaluation .
just recently , a group of members of parliament ( rather large ones – 30 deputies ) ) left the majority post-solidarity party and created a new “ polish family ” party with its slogan that the ruling coalition is in “ service of brussels . ” the call for “ family values ” to defend “ family values ” is not directed , whatever that means . but here people who have been active in the former “ solidarity ” movement – for them a community movement rather than individuals , a movement for public purpose , rather than private freedom – shape the new bloc of euro-antagonists . in practice that this movement also tends to be motivated little more than a fear of change . a less agreeable anti-europeanism stems from a tendency that struggles for old values like honor and virtue .
an alternative hypothesis that appears to fit the facts recently emerged from paul woolley ’s center for study of dysfunctionality in capital markets at the london school of economics . researchers arguing that in fragile speculative industries ( and finance has certainly been in that category in recent years ) that it is hard for investors to monitor those managing their money at the same time . they may see short-term returns , but they may not understand very well how those returns are being generated . they may be part of the story , but competition of talent and that of customers appears intense among investment banks and others , yet they have collectively been extravagantly rewarded at the expense of those customers . managers can claim to have a higher and higher return when the upturn is complete .
the united nations is consistently ranked among the top ten countries for innovation , including by the insead ’s global innovation index . but , on the global peace index , it ranks 88th out of 153 countries . conversely , bhutan ranks among the top 20 most peaceful nations , but does not even power it onto the indices of innovation . likewise , the united kingdom and the netherlands rank , denmark , fifth , and sixth , on the innovation index , but only 28th , and 29th , on the un peace index . of course , crime , terrorism , conflict , and political fragility severe enough to trigger a total breakdown of laws and order dramatically hamper creativity and innovation .
finally , the elections provide a check on german hegemony more broadly . germany ’s christian democratic union ( cdu ) has been weakened , and the country ’s greens have grown stronger . but merkel still defends weber , and , aside from macron and dutch prime minister mark rutte , most eu leaders remain reluctant to confront the european parliament on the spitzenkandidaten issue . that may shorten the odds for margrethe vestager – not of the epp , but of the liberal spitzenkandidat – while lengthening them for michel barnier , by coming from the epp but is not the spitzenkandidat . if the letter succeeds in the ruling weber and his populist supporters , macron will proclaim it as a success .
on january 1 , 2007 , ban ki-moon , south korea ’s former foreign minister , will become united nations secretary-general following kofi annan ’s ten-year-old tenure . annan has inspired the world with his diplomacy and leadership on reducing poverty and human rights ; but the war in iraq has divided the world and attracted the attention and financial resources away from crises regions and critical long-term issues , such as climate change , disease control , sustainable energy , and water access . in addition to america ’s longstanding challenges of poverty , environmental , nuclear proliferation , and un reform , the new secretary-general will inherit a long list of grisly hotspots : iraq , iran , afghanistan , palestine , lebanon , somalia , myanmar , sudan , sudan , north korea , syria , and elsewhere . recent attempts at influence developments in these countries by threats and sanctions , or , sometimes , war , have all failed . with the recent elections in the united states , and the rise of asia , an opportunity to turn the world ’s attention is being one of the most critical challenges facing our planet .
that is why the catastrophic free-for-all on trade policies during the 1930 ’s greatly aggravated the great depression . many complain that something similar , if less grand in scope , is happening today . an outfit called the world of trade alert ( suddenly ) has arrived at the forefront , raising alarm bells about what it called a “ protectionist juggernaut . ” the gta ’s most recent report identifies no fewer than 192 separate protectionist actions since november 2008 with china as its most widely targeted target . what has been widely quoted for the financial press is known for this number .
given this , why not have a system in which host countries and countries of origin shared the costs of social benefits to migrants ? host countries could presume the responsibility of administering benefits like unemployment insurance , sick pay , and pensions . and origin countries could continue to provide benefits not to employment-related bonds , such as child allowances for housing , and service to those too old or sick to work as they arrived . such a change would create a win-win situation for the eu , because it would reduce the destructive appeal of welfare magnetism , and give britain the grounds to rethink their exit decisions with their heads held high . if people come to home to earn higher wages , the pie available to get larger benefits ; but when they hit welfare benefits , the pie gets smaller .
what needs to be done has a long history of clarity . it has become commonplace in europe that an ongoing crisis will either destroy the eu or bring about a political union ; and that , unsolidarity-based solutions to existing debt and partial mutualization of new debt , europe can not be rescued . the pricing of a monetary union ’s survival , combined with that of the european project , is more a community : a banking union , a fiscal union , and a political union . those who oppose it because they fear shared accountability , transfers from the rich to the poor , and a loss of national sovereignty will have to accept european re-nationalization and hence its exit from the world scene . no alternative , and certainly not statusquo , will work .
the eu is not deprived of instruments – the so-called basel iii accord that finance investment in poorer regions , but does not have a strategy for harnessing them . for investors , the reform process may appear impossibly long and hesitant . but , by the standards of international negotiations and european governance , things have been growing exceptionally quickly . the eu is not deprived of instruments , and its so-called set of structural funds , which are financed by investment in poorer regions – but does not have a strategy for harnessing them . so the result of months of discussion might be better characterized as “ emu 2.0 ” than “ emu 2.0 . ”
other countries might well find sweden a system worth studying it . its schools are funded by local communities , and operate within the eu of the national curriculum conceived by parliament and the cabinet . as with corporate monopolies , consumers ( students ) are often viewed as homogeneous massachusetts , where all students can be highly educated on the same pedagogical approach . but schools must be able to meet individual children ’s needs and capacities in a manner that makes learning via stimulating adventures . though learning and structures have progressively diversified , the important shortcoming of most european education systems remains : students have too few choices , and teachers should they wish to remain in their profession , they will need to adhere to a severely compartmentalized pedagogy .
from this perspective , they run into and out of a prison system and do have little chance of ever regaining the legal job that empowers them to escape poverty . their children grow up without one ’s parent at home , and without hopes and support . what is crazy about this is that america has missed an obvious point – and missed for 40 years . drug users ’ children often become drug users themselves ; they , too , frequently end up in prison or suffer violence or early deaths . to break the poverty cycle , a country needs investments in its children ’s future , not in the incarceration of its 2.3 million people every year , many for nonviolent crimes that are symptoms of poverty .
the comparison between the two approaches is clear . colombia ’s policymakers hoped that if they adopted the best-practice legislation and regulation , somebody will come . and , if not , they can still bask in the international accolades they are receiving from outside actors . at this school of export-led growth strategy , skill shortages failed to become a major problem , owing to a fairly open immigration policy that allowed the country to exploit the talents that colombia , among other countries , had not kept up . the non-residential construction boom that it created helped not only absorb the labor force leaving rural areas , but also achieve spectacular reductions in inequality .
at best , the us faces a protracted period of anemic , below-trend gdp growth in the advanced economies as household deleveraging , financial institutions , and governments start feeding on their spending and investment . at the global level , those over-leveraged countries – the united states , the united kingdom , spain , greece , and elsewhere – now need to deleverage and spend , consume , and import less . but over-saving countries – brazil , china , emerging asia , germany , and japan – do not spending more to compensate for deleveraging countries ’ spending shortfalls . thus , the revival of global aggregate demand will be weak , pushing global growth much lower . moreover , there is now massive public-sector re-leveraging in the advanced economies , with massive fiscal and public-debt accumulation fueled by automatic stabilizers , counter-cyclical keynesian fiscal stimulus , and the enormous cost of socializing the financial system ’s losses .
previous demands for tighter regulation came with nothing , owing to the financial-sector opposition . the current crisis , wall street ’s fall , is to neo-liberalism what the berlin wall ’s fall in 1989 was to communism . the global dimension of this crisis surprisingly also has a positive side . for now , the international community is blamed for thinking about how to reform the financial sector , minimizing the risk of similar disaster in the future . up to now , a major part of the problem has been countries ’ unwillingness to cooperate .
in advocating disetations of both the religious and secular orthodoxies , i do not wish to trivialize the importance of their ongoing contest over the meaning of life . after all , if the state ’s ostentatiously takes sides in this conversation , it can not avoid the denigrating of the ultimate convictions of many of its dissenting citizens . it is because of this profound significance of this grand debate that the state should strive to be neutral . unlike militant liberalism in the french tradition , this neutralist philosophy strives to prevent either side in the ongoing culture war from using the state ’s coercive power of taxation as a weapon in the struggle for men ’s souls . as much as possible , the liberal state should be neutral on such issues , leaving it up to every citizen to determine whether it should hand its financial support to the church of rome or one at miami .
new york – twenty years after the berlin wall ’s fall and the collapse of communism , the world faces yet another stark choice between two fundamentally different forms of organization : international capitalism and state-guided capitalism . the former , represented by the united states , have broken down , and the latter , represented by china , is on the rise . following the path of least resistance will lead to a gradual disintegration of the international financial system . a new kind of soundest multilateral system needs to be invented . while international cooperation on regulatory reform is hard to achieve on a piecemeal basis , it can be attainable at a grand bargain that reaps the whole financial order .
mario monti , the european union ’s commissioner for competition policy , often lies in the spotlight , usually with popular acclaim . over the years , he championed important victories restricting state aid to business , one of europe ’s most pernicious economic maladies . today , however , the benefits derived from his achievements are at risk , owing to a number of stunning courtroom defeats . within a period of just a few weeks , the european court of justice ( to which private parties can appeal to decisions made by the commission ) was voided three of monti ’s decisions to reject his proposed corporate mergers . with the competition case against software giant microsoft seemingly at the offing , eu commissioner monti will need to rediscover his footing quickly .
so many of their proud and dignified people have been stripped of their livelihoods , and have forced upon every day to rely on a tiny meal or none at all . worse still , these tragedies have been avoidable ; we have known that these crises are coming to a head . drought and hunger are convulsion slow-motion calamities that , with adequate planning and adequate resources , can be swept away . but time and time again , humanitarian assistance in africa came right short , as occurred in somalia in 2011 and 2012 ; in niger in 2005 ; and in ethiopia in the 1980s . then , as now , food insecurity was predicted long before the first hunger pops appeared .
the bottom chessboard comprises the transnational relationships that cross borders beyond control of governments , everything from drugs to infectious diseases to climate change to transnational terrorism . on this bottom board , the level of close civilian cooperation is also important , affecting the country ’s attractiveness or soft power . on this board , power is distributed chaotically among non-state actors . here the us needs the aid of the europeans , and it makes little sense to call this a “ world uni-polar , ” either . no government can control outcomes without the cooperation of others .
and , because these large financial institutions are by any meaningful definition “ too big to fail , ” ” ” ” ” ” they are able to borrow more cheaply than would otherwise have been the case in the first place . translation : the orderly resolution of global megabanks offers an illusion . as long as we allow cross-border banks at or near their current size to grow , our political leaders will be unable to tolerate failures . this form of government support amounts to large implicit subsidies for the big banks . worse yet , both have the motive and opportunity to grow in an even bigger range .
fortunately , the world will not need to wait for the moral suasion to carry out this day . fossil-fuel companies and governments are already facing intensifying legal pressure . dutch group urgenda and almost 900 co-plaintiffs have already successfully sued the dutch government , forcing it to adopt stricter climate policies . and , by raising the costs of extracting fossil-fuel investments , they would contribute to an eventual phase-out of an industry that lacks room in a climate-safe world . typhoon survivors in the philippines have delivered a response to the uk ’s human-rights commission , calling for the investigation of major fossil-fuel companies ’ responsibility to cause climate-change mitigation .
just a few years ago , for example , the chip-maker national semiconductor maintained a complicated delivery system linking its three factories and three subcontractors in asia to its global customer network . it decided to out-source this traffic to federal express , which uses a sophisticated on-line scheme to manage global deliveries and sales . several steps are needed to support a massive increase in the use of the internet in these other locations : * telecommunications liberalization , including the entry of new private service providers , is critical to lowering costs and disseminating benefits . as a result , national semiconductor saw his delivery cycle to house customers from four weeks to a single week , and distributional costs slashed , from a 2.9 % sale to just 1.2 % of sales .
as a result , the option of so-called “ “ helicopter money ” in the ” is becoming more discussed . but the discussion about it is riddled with the confusions . if governments run larger fiscal deficits and fund this not with interest-bearing debt , but with central-bank money , nominal demand will undoubtedly increase , producing some mix of higher inflation and higher real output . it is often argued that money tizing fiscal deficits would commit central banks to keeping interest rates low forever , an approach that is bound to produce excessive inflation . it is simultaneously argued ( sometimes even by the same man ) that monetary financing would not stimulate demand , because people fear a future of inflationary monetary tax .
geneva – when lehman brothers collapsed ten years ago this month , it suddenly became unclear who was indebted what to whom to fail and to go down after that . the result was that interbank credit markets had froze , wall street was panicked , and companies went under , not only in the united states but around the world . with policymakers struggling to respond to the crisis , economic pundits at the time were left wondering whether the broad-based ” low business-cycle volatility since the 1980s is turning into yet another great depression . in hindsight , the complacency in the run-up to the crisis was understandably unconscionable . and yet little has changed in its immediate aftermath .
for some , that is the cause of ambivalence . coalition partners disagree on how urgent the matter is to sort out the matter . should the spd , which votes on a coalition agreement in early december , block the formation of a new government ( an unlikely development , but not entirely outside the question ) ; disputes over security and defense matters would not be the culprit . nonetheless , they agreed that in less than a year , a commission would provide disparate options and models to safeguard the german parliament ’s right , while giving assurances to germany ’s european partners that the country would be a reliable contributor to troop deployments . aside from several minor particulars , consensus prevails .
indeed , every new gm crop variety must meet rigorous health , environmental , and efficacy standards . badly needed biosafety laws in nigeria and uganda , for example , are already being delayed . they typically argue that gm crops are unsafe – a view flatly rejected by the scientific community over the past two decades . likewise , the world health organization has confirmed that “ no impact on human health ” has been shown to boost the pace of consumption of such foods . much of the issue lies in a small group of anti-gm activists who object to technology on “ moral ” grounds .
unless coverage is complete , one can expect the regulated to complain put them at a competitive disadvantage as they have . regulators ’ call to isda for voluntary action will amount to little if it is simply an request by the derivatives industry to act against its own financial interests . perhaps regulators will find that they must require that the regulated have the desired contract provisions . that solution will be incomplete , however , because not all the derivatives traders are regulated by financial institutions , and because many lenders would find ways to circumvent the contracts and requirement . regulators may well need to turn to bankruptcy laws to correct the issue .
but even that was insufficient for britain ’s leaders , who tightened the law further in 1898 , making it even harsher than sedition laws in england . the result was section 124a of the penal code , under which any person who employed “ words , signs , or visible representation … ” the result was section 124a of the penal code , under which any individual who employed “ words , signs , or visible representation … to excite disaffection with the government of the ” can be accused of sedition and potentially condemned to life imprisonment . in other words , no amount of free speech for indians has occurred anywhere in the world . sedition was thus explicitly intended as a tool to terrorize indian nationalists ; in fact , mahatma gandhi was among his prominent victims , albeit far from its last . the british came to power , in the words of britain ’s lieutenant governor of bengal , that “ sedition ” has adequate access to a people ruled by a government of its own nationality and beliefs may prove inadequate , or in some respects unsuited , to a country under foreign rule .
seoul – over the next five years , china – already the world ’s largest exporter , manufacturer and international-reserve-asset holder – is poised to overtake the united states as the world ’s largest economy ( measured by purchasing power parity ) this year . after decades of actively participating in international economic institutions – including the g20 , the international monetary fund , the world bank , and the world trade organization – china has come to resemble a revisionist power seeking to establish a new world order . indeed , the country ’s own era of following deng xiaoping ’s injunction to hide brightness and cherish obscurity ” is long gone . now it is using its growing clout to reshape global economic governance . last month , china and the asean countries signed a memorandum of understanding to establish a new multilateral development bank , the asian infrastructure investment bank .
achievement of a global climate agreement promises not only to protect the environment , but also to cement europe ’s role as a leader in sustainability . new free-trade agreements give european economies access to major markets around the world . and enlargement , indeed , has boosted europe ’s security substantially . these are , through all reasonable standards , striking uk-guided achievements . progress on the single market has helped to boost competitiveness .
a special report on semiconductors , vital to america ’s national security and economic competitiveness – for president barack ’s obama ’s council of advisors on science and technology ( pcast ) provides some answers . the european union , japan , south korea , and taiwan all have prominent global supply-chain roles for semiconductors , and some have already tightened security flows through semiconductor ip to china and in acquiring semiconductor firms ’ acquisition of semiconductor firms by chinese investors . the pcast report recommends that america adopt similar tactics , calibrating export controls , and inward investment limits following china ’s behavior . the report , written by the nonpartisan group of business and academic leaders ( i was a member ) , suggested that america ’s work with its allies to enforce international law , put pressure on china to comply with its world trade organization obligations , and strengthens export controls and inward investment restrictions . proposed bipartisan legislation to expand the jurisdictions to the us committee on foreign investment in the us ( which reviews and acquisitions of domestic corporations by foreign entities ) to a broader array of investment , including chinese venture capital and private-equity investment ventures in us start-ups , fits this recommendation .
our livelihoods , not to mention those of future generations , should not be held hostage by our ongoing dependence on fossil fuels . business-led innovation and market-based solutions can drive a decisive global shift from crippling fossil-fuel dependency to a more efficient , technology-driven global renewable-energy system . four decades ago , countries not only endured the immediate economic impact of opec ’s embargo ; leveraging the resulting oil shortages to spur innovation . swift and determined action to become more energy-efficient buildings , design automobiles , which demand little or no fossil-fuel reserves , and raise the share of renewables in us electricity supplies could ensure that the ipcc warns against doing likewise . the rocky mountain institute ’s reinventing conflagration analysis shows that such a future is achievable , offering market-driven strategies for the powering an american economy that is 158 % larger in 2050 , without reliance on oil , coal , or nuclear energy .
luckily , two missed the goal , and israel succeeded in intercepting the third . on the same day , hamas launched three potent iranian-designed rockets from gaza at israel ’s dimona reactor . the captured uranium was not a weapons-grade ; indeed , international inspectors removed all sensitive material from iraq following the 1991 gulf war ( which was to be absent when the united states invaded in 2003 ) . but the episode represented a severe escalation of hostilities and served as a powerful reminder of the vulnerability of nuclear reactors in warzones . but what international reaction , if anything , might have triggered had the caucasus been highly enriching ?
while the dollar ’s appreciation has taken some downward pressure on non-us economies that are dependent on either exports or foreign capital , it has heightened the risk of an open-ended currency war . at the same time , not all indicators are grim at all . the american economy reflects this dichotomy . labor markets remain largely sound , even in otherwise anemic economies like germany , and household consumption remains robust in most of the major economies . moreover , the september oil-price surge , which has raised concerns about another negative growth shock , has since receded .
in the personal-computing business , which moved from bulky apple ii to the sleek and smart iphone 4s ( announced the day before steve jobs ) , steve jobs was the only true showman of what is now one of the world ’s largest industries . ( others became commercial ” leaders , but only steve jobs became someone known and admired by the millions – including the romanian waiter in the british airways that i sit nowadays . ) i first met steve back in 1979 or 1980 at a ben hun sen personal computer forum . he inspired widespread public enthusiasm for the quality of his products and his personal charisma . so , for some reason , it was held at playboy resort in lake geneva ( never again ! ) .
cambridge – america ’s real gdp growth rate of 3.2 % for the first quarter of this year is impressive , because it was the 3 % average growth recorded in 2018 ( measured from the fourth quarter of 2017 to the fourth quarter of 2018 ) . from the end of the great recession , from 2011 to 2017 , america ’s economy grew at an average annual rate of just 2.1 % , on average . so , what accounts for the recent acceleration ? following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of increasing challenges to america ’s interests elsewhere around the world .
in closed-list systems , candidate lists should be zippered : male , female , male , female ( or vice versa ) , female ( or vice versa ) . a 50 % quota should be accepted in open-list schemes . with no accuracy can be predicted at the impact of increased seniorages on the open-list systems that currently have effective quota legislation . but if these countries substitute for their gaping lists with closed lists , the percentage of women on the elected should have everything else remaining on average , at around 10 % . the impact would be greatest ( resulting in around 20 % of the work-in-elected appointees ) in systems that currently have no effective quota legislation .
and , according to special counsel robert mueller ’s report , trump has attempted to block the investigation into his 2016 campaign ’s dealings with russia . trump has systematically defied the separation of powers at the heart of america ’s own constitutional system . frustrated , for example , that congress denied him whatever funds he wanted for his phantasmagorical wall along the us border with mexico , he simply plucked the funds from which congress had allocated to the us defense department . at the same time , he flouted the us constitutional prohibition on accepting emoluments – money or personal benefits of foreign governments that do business , sometimes a extravagant proportion , at his various hotels and golf clubs , and found other ways to monetize the presidency . moreover , trump has sought to steer government contracts toward favored firms , or away from those he dislikes – for example , amazon , whose co-founder , jeff bezos , also owns the washington post .
at a time when debt becomes unsustainable , several potential negotiating outcomes are confronted with several possible negotiations . at times , debt-service payments are rescheduled and , possibly , extended over a longer period , giving the creditor country the time to regain the capacity to bail out greece . in the wake of the crisis , argentina defaulted on its sovereign debt in 2001 . few governments , on either side , refuse to pay off . sometimes creditors agree to swap old bond issues for new ones , which have either reduced face value or lower interest payments .
in places like vietnam , indonesia , and china – where a pandemic strain will likely originate – expertise , coordination , discipline , and infrastructure are all missing . but a strategy can be cost-effective only when it is feasible . after all , the responses in turkey – where as many as 50 could emerge in the eastern region – are instructive . though ring prophylaxis might work in minneapolis , sierra leone , or zurich in the parts of the world where the launch of influenza pandemics , the probability of success approaches zero . this ‘ tipping point ’ strategy is proving most cost-effective .
deng xiaoping ’s reforms ignited the most rapid economic upgrading in human history , and with it the emergence of a large and growing middle class . it helps to finance other countries ’ trade deficits and domestic investment ( many of its recipients hold large budget deficits that depress national saving below domestic investment ) . moreover , china sits on roughly $ 3.3 trillion in foreign-exchange reserves , a large portion of which is in us dollars , but also other major currencies , owing to its large trade surpluses in recent decades . it remains the vital assembly center of the global manufacturing supply chain for a range of manufactured goods , such as computers and cell phones , to enable lower prices for global consumers . that has made china a key trade partner for the united states , most european countries , and many other economies besides marketing it at the center of asian trade and supply-chain dynamics .
even ukrainians born after 1986 understand what a chernobyl-type catastrophe brought about by combat might look like . for ukraine ’s government , the angst is real . history offers little guidance about whether the warring countries would avoid their damaging nuclear sites . with the possible exception of the 1990 ’s , wars against the balkan conflict were not fought against or within countries that had a nuclear capability . in the balkan case , serbian military jets overflew slovenia ’s krško ’s krško nuclear power plant in an ominous gesture early in the conflict , while radical serbian nationalists called for attacks to release radioactive contents .
china took full advantage of the kremlin ’s desperation , securing rock-bottom rates for russian energy resources . it has pursued a campaign to reclaim its former position not only in the crude , but also in the realm of petroleum products , natural gas liquids , and petrochemicals . to this end , it has sustained a price war , supported by spurring production to shift away from its weaker competitors . once the door to asia was opened , yet russian companies seized an opportunity to enter downstream markets in india and indonesia – two countries critical to the saudis ’ own strategy . in the last two years , or so , saudi arabia has made it starkly apparent that it would not readily cede its market share to anyone .
indeed , attaining , prospering , and flourishing all refer to experiential rewards rather than money . what kind of economy in which we would offer this all refer to ? this is the kind of economy that i hope that china will be developing . history suggests that it would be one segment of muslims ( alert to unseen opportunity , and exercising his initiative to experiment with new things ) and innovative people ( imagined new things , develop new concepts into commercial products and methods , and marketing those into the potential ) . actors in such a way would range from the grassroots level of society to the most advantaged .
( though perhaps that ’s not proper on the part of automation , the supermarket has just shifted some of its shopping work onto the customer . ) for those who dread the threat that automation poses to low-skill labor , a ready response is to train people for more good jobs . but , at this point , technological advances now consume the superior jobs , too . the broad range of jobs that we now think of as skillful , secure , and irreducibly human may mean the next casualties of technological change . as a recent article in the financial times points out , in two areas notoriously immune to productivity increases , educational attainment , and health care , technology is already reducing the demand for low-skill labor .
in august , gunmen invaded the home of the impoverished roma widow , maria balogh , shot her dead and wounded her 13-year-old daughter . her house was burned to the ground , after she was born . last november , the roma couple was killed in northeastern hungary , after being killed . in april , roma ’s father and his five-year-old son was killed in front of their homeland near budapest . in april , roma father and his five-year-old son killed ahead of their homeland near budapest .
a more rational approach would embrace twenty-first-century realities . the information revolution has changed the world in ways that tariffs can not reverse . with america ’s workforce already competing against robots at home and against lower-wage us workers abroad , disrupting imports will just create more employment opportunities for robots . with the right balance , trump should be protecting individual workers , not individual jobs . the processes set by the twenty-first-century world are overly sudden , unpredictable , and uncontrollable to relying on static measures like tariffs .
but hitler ’s hold over germany was far more absolute than ahmadinejad ’s power over iran . hitler came close to developing a nuclear bomb , but never had it , whereas iran extremely well , perhaps , would . the outcomes of iran ’s recent municipal elections were humiliating for ahmadinejad and his supporters . those elections would have been unthinkable in nazi germany , for example . indeed , he very probably implies what he says about jews and israel , but was quite a latter-day hitler , and is iran the equivalent of germany in the 1930 ’s ?
the second principle is subsidiarity , which holds that decision-making should be decentralized whenever possible . this ensures that local and regional preferences are regarded alongside the effects of eurozone-wide regulation and economies of scale . but this requires a richer reservoir of ideas , rather than a unified , approach . the last guiding principle is congruity to ensure that decision-makers are accountable for the outcomes in their decision-making . this means that , as european electorates insist on enforcing sovereignty over fiscal and economic policymaking , shared responsibility will be a pipe dream .
george w. bush ’s economic policies were based on an extraordinarily reckless gamble that reflects a political coalition of two major powers : super-wealthy and evangelical christians . the super-rich had one over-riding objective in joining the bush coalition : tax cuts that disproportionately benefit the richest households . the bush team believed that they would ultimately balance tax cuts for the wealthy with cuts in government spending ; but they never explained that to the public . as these policies crumble , global financial markets changed their negatively , adding insecurities to the global economy , and little relief is in sight , as america enters a period of prolonged political infighting and stalemate . evangelicals were brought on by so-called “ family values ” – meaning abortion and gay marriage , and promises of active government support for religious activities – including direct transfer payments to religious groups for social services that they provide locally and internationally .
japan in the early 1990 ’s waited too long to act , and has missed the right opportunity to deploy countermeasures , which are why japan has not yet recovered from its long period of stagnation . some of the large eu countries are on the verge of recession , and their performance will remain relative to other countries . of course , the eu ’s member states should set out on the concrete shape that such economic stabilization programs take for themselves . to bolster their purchasing power and spur consumption , tax cuts at low – and medium-income households will be vital . public investment in infrastructure ( such as the massive expansion of europe ’s railroad networks ) , together with protecting climate and environmental technology , will be needed .
furthermore , according to the mckinsey global institute , investment opportunities stemming from infrastructure demand in africa will amount to at least $ 150 billion annually over the next decade . africa ’s value as a trade and investment partner is not news to europe . moreover , according to the mckinsey global institute , investment opportunities stemming from infrastructure demand in africa will amount to at least $ 150 billion annually over the next decade . africa is also home to strategic natural resources for emerging low-carbon industries , and is well positioned to play a pivotal role in renewable energies . for europe , africa ’s economic potential remains far from tapped .
earlier this month , putin has been re-inaugurated , or , rather , crowned in spectacular behavior , with medvedev once again assuming the role of pliant prime minister . a far more competent television placeholder would have included sergei ivanov , a former kgb general . but ivanov is much taller than putin , who has only at any rate achieved his rank of colonel . despite his years in office , medvedev remains known more for his stoning ties and expensive watches than for his executive actions . an apparent potential threat to putin ’s autocratic power , ivanov has passed over , and has ever since been relegated to the role of russia ’s “ chief botanist , ” overseeing environmental and transportation networks .
cambridge – government programs to subsidize pensioners are in trouble in every country , owing to rising life expectancy and a rising retirement ratio for taxpayers . the problem is uniquely dissimilar in the united states , because america ’s ’s “ trust fund ” system of welfare financing is creating a crisis when the fund is exhausted . though the options at that time will be different from those facing other governments , the policies to avoid the american crisis are relevant to other countries confronting population aging . the problem will worsen in the years ahead as the adverse demographic trends increase the fiscal burden of funding pension and health-care financing . though the options at that time will be different from those facing other governments , the policies to avoid the american crisis are relevant only to other countries confronting population aging .
one reason for this is that anti-corruption scandals have provided an opportunity for investors to see brazilian freedoms of speech and democracy in action . lula remains popular with brazilians because his populist rhetoric shows genuine sympathy for the less-affluent , and with foreign investors because he has always tempered his radicalism to accommodate economic reality . newspapers and tv commentators have been relentless in reporting for the scandals , helping to demonstrate to brazilians and overseas investors alike that the political system remains sufficiently stable to resist open criticism . indeed , while the scandals stirred up the government , lula was forcibly reelected last year , with investors continuing to pour money into the stock market . more recently , he criticized bolivian president evo morales ’s threats to usurp foreign assets for his failure in this regard : “ radicalism is incompatible with the common sense needed from someone who governs the ” ” .
the bolivian military has arrested none other than the other . the constitutional court that allowed morales to run deemed the legal presidential succession ; timely elections have been promised ; and the military has not taken power . true , morales resigned when the military told him and after he acceded to the protesters ’ demands for another vote . but , as a result , the current constitutional provision in october followed . both organizations of american state electoral watch missions that he himself invited , and of whose terms he endorsed , then refused to certify the outcome .
this is the kind of free and democratic spirit operating outside the convention that elections determine government . it is fueled enormously by social media ( as an essentially revolutionary phenomenon ) . and it continues to move very quickly in precipitating a crisis . this is not always consistent or rational ; it is . and they resent – to the point of mobilizing in the streets , any semblance that a clique at the top barring going .
this left them free to develop their own versions of national capitalism as long as they obeyed a few simple international rules . the current crisis shows just how far we have come from that model . financial globalization , in particular , was playing havoc with the old rules . when chinese-style capitalism met american-style capitalism with few safety valves at the end of the day , it gave rise to an explosive mix . countries were obliged to commit only limited trade liberalization , with plenty of exemptions for socially sensitive sectors ( agriculture , textiles , services ) .
at the same time , america ’s bargaining position in world politics should be strengthened . you and i might depend on each other ; but , if i depend on far less than you do on me , my bargaining power increases . power arises from inter-dependence asymmetries . for decades , the us and saudi arabia had the balance of asymmetries in which the us depended on them as the swing of oil producer and depended on the us for ultimate military security . so , even if america had none of the other interests of the middle east , like israel or the nuclear non-proliferation regime , a balance of energy imports and exports is unlikely to free the us from military expenditures – which some experts estimate run to $ 50 billion a year , in order to protect the region ’s oil routes .
at the national level , lack of political will gave rise to the craven use of referenda , such as french and dutch plebiscites on treaty establishing the european constitution in 2005 , the netherlands ’ vote on the eu-ukraine association agreement last april , and the brexit referendum almost three months later . in each case , eu voters said “ no ” – outcomes that may be blamed – particularly in the uk , on national leaders ’ habit of blaming the eu for its domestic problems . indeed , europe ’s leaders ’ parochialism is a major reason why the eu is failing to retain broad-based public support . european commission president jean-claude juncker , for example , openly frets about deep divisions among eu member states over brexit , and questions about whether “ the hungarians and poles ” want exactly the same thing that germans and europeans do . the absence of a historic vision among the current generation of political leadership undermines the shared sense of purpose needed to make eu citizens feel that they are part of the same community , regardless of their different national identities .
florence – british politics has always been something of an experimental laboratory in the industrialized world . in the 1970 ’s , britain was where the preeminent postwar model of how to manage the economy collapsed . that model was underpinned politically by creating consensus and economically by keynesian demand management . in the 1960s , keynesian policies delivered the illusion that everyone was profiting , with soaring employment and massive wage growth . today , the equivalent of collapse has come from the “ regulation-lite ” regime , in which a party that styled itself as “ new job ” has embraced a powerful role for markets – particularly largely deregulated financial markets .
palestine ’s religious landmarks attract rising numbers of religious tourists from around the world each year . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . palestine ’s religious landmarks attracting increasing numbers of religious tourists from around the world every year . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
as french cities burned down , other countries were extremely severe in judging france . embassies issued warnings to tourists and their citizens living in france ; tv news programs showed several hours of burning cars . mayors across europe nonetheless responded more moderately , feel-good , and displayed solidarity with the plight of their french colleagues . other countries ’ governments appear to have taken to distance themselves from the problem , fearing the contagion to which they know how to spread . they know that their cities also remain vulnerable to urban violence , to the extent that they have pockets of social inequality , including marginalized and excluded young people .
and the rapid economic growth that china ’s leaders must sustain has to sustain , in order to lift vast numbers of people out of poverty – thereby preventing a crisis of legitimacy , places a floor under global food , energy , and mineral prices . all else being equal unless china ’s commodity intensity – defined as the amount that a commodity that is consumed to generate a unit of output – falls dramatically , its demand for commodities will grow larger this year than it did at the end of the century . meanwhile , the supply of most commodities is projected to grow by no more than 2 % annually in real terms . as long as china ’s commodity demand grows at an anemic pace than global supply , prices will rise . to be sure , use intensity has plummeted for certain commodities , like gold and nuclear energy ; but , for others , like aluminum and coal , it has risen steadily since 2000 , or , as is true for co2 and stalled at soaring levels .
in the automobile sector , default exceeded $ 3 billion , leading to collapsing transport services due to shortages of spare parts . payment arrears on food imports amount to $ 2.4 billion , leading to substantial shortages of staple goods . in venezuela ’s automobile sector , default exceeds $ 3.5 billion , leading to a collapse in transportation services due to shortages of spare parts . payment arrears on food imports amount to $ 2.4 billion , leading to a substantial shortage of staple goods . a similar situation prevails throughout the rest of the economy .
likewise , while egypt is in the midst of a messy revolution and must give priority to internal change , it also intends to recapture a more visible and influential role within the palestinian national movement ( s ) and in the region as a whole . of course , turkey is even less destabilized than its arab rivals and partners through a revolutionary process that does not directly challenge it . after all , for example , turkey is already a functioning democracy . will it have to get a bomb , too ? the “ middle east empire ” of the middle east will no longer remain a sleepwalk .
if “ constitutionalized ” , they simply implant the idea that the constitution is an aspiration rather than a set of enforceable statutory rights . the desire to restrict or protect some forms of human activity from free markets may be understandable , particularly in countries like poland , where free markets still pose an unknown beast . but , in a situation in which many fields of social life -- such as education , health , and social services -- need fast and radical change , unleashing the free market to do its job offer the only plausible avenue to change . state-owned health insurance companies , sovereign guaranteed retirement , etc. are not only inefficient and inefficient ; they also defy the idea of political reform . these state-controlled rewards have little recourse to the justice supposedly desire by their socialist promoters ; yet everything to do with rent-seeking and corruption .
indian art , classical music , and dance have the same effect . bollywood movies that plead his glitzy entertainment far beyond the indian diaspora in the united states and the united kingdom offer another example . so , too , does the hard work of indian fashion designers now stride to stripe across the world ’s runways . a senegalese friend told me of his illiterate mother who takes a dakar bus to dakar bus every month to watch a bollywood film – missing the understanding of hindi dialogue and can not read french subtitles , but she can still catch a spirit of movies and understand the story , and people like her look to india with stars in their eyes as an outcome . an indian diplomat in damascus a few years ago told me that the only publicly depicts portraits as the great that of former then-president hafez al-assad was of bollywood superstar amitabh bachchan .
new delhi – barack obama , america ’s sixth american president , to visit india since he gained independence , arrives at an attempt , both for the united states and india . for india , the issues on obama ’s agenda are immense and complex , and the options for resolving them are distressingly limited . bilateral economic , trade , and currency disagreements may not be as bitter as they are between the us and china ; but they are thorny , and lack of resolution makes them more intractable . those relating to security in both afghanistan and pakistan are as treacherous as they have ever been . some of obama ’s closest advisers have just resigned , opening an awkward gap to national security and economics – the focus of his meetings with india ’s administration .
moreover , knowledge-intensive technologies have winner-take-all networks , whereby hubs seize access to knowledge and power , leaving less-privileged groups , classes , sectors , and regions struggling to compete . thanks to social media , the resulting discontent now spreads faster than ever , leading to destructive politics . the combination of bad politics and economics in one part of the country can easily produce contagion as rising migratory spreads and instability elsewhere in the world . this may invite geopolitical interference , which quickly worsens into the lose-lose scenario , like that already apparent in water-stressed and conflict-affected countries where governments are fragile or failing . according to the un high commission on refugees , around 65 million refugees were killed last year , compared to just 1.6 million in 1960 .
that constitution marked the country ’s passage from dictatorship to democracy , and sets the framework for spain ’s ’s ’s ’s rule-of-law system . but such a process is illicit under the 1978 spanish constitution . and , just as it explicitly states , it is “ based ” on the insoluble unity of the spanish nation , ” ” ” with the sovereignty belonging to the spanish people ’s ” ” ” ” ” ” for germany . in short , spain is one nation indivisible . many cited former british prime minister david cameron ’s decision to permit scotland ’s independence referendum in 2014 .
geneva – the world needs a way to stop looking backwards . since the 2008 financial crisis , the us has wasted far too much energy trying to go back to the era of rapid economic expansion . the flawed assumption that the post-crisis challenges were only temporary has underpinned policies that yielded only lackluster recoveries while failing to address key issues like high unemployment and rising inequality . the post-crisis era is over ; a “ post-post-crisis world ” has been us . it is time to embrace a new framework of realistic solutions that promote shared prosperity within today ’s global economy and tomorrow .
obama confined himself to advocate pending bilateral deals with colombia and other emerging-market countries . obama ’s regrettable retreat from supporting the doha round reflects a number of factors and fallacies . these were emphasized in a “ open letter to obama ” to congress that i have organized and released , over the signatures of nearly 50 of today ’s most influential trade experts worldwide , urging a presidential shift in policy toward doha . in fairness , america ’s president opposes labour unions , purchasing a bogus narrative that trade with poor countries increases ranks of the poor by driving down wages . indeed , it is notable that , while obama ’s state of the union address in january 2010 at least mentioned doha , his address in june 2011 did not .
these new worries are raising alarm bells in china . at the same time , some people are even predicting a double-dip recession . if that happens , the chance of an actual american default would be much higher than it is today . in fact , diversification away from dollar assets is the day ’s advice . but this is no easy task at all , particularly in the short run .
berkeley – investors worldwide are increasingly looking for investment opportunities that promise to bring environmental and social benefits more effectively than ever to market rates of returns . last year , one out of every 6 dollars of worth of assets under professional management in the united states – a total of $ 6.6 trillion – was allocated toward some form of sustainable investment , mainly by public equities . if this trend continues , with environmental or social goals enhancing investment redenomination ’s value , it reinforces a commitment to sustainability that is already gaining momentum among companies worldwide . some 1,260 corporations , managing the $ 45 trillion in assets worth of assets , are signatories of the un ’s green commitment to responsible investment , ” which recognizes environmental , social , and governance ( esg ) determinants , and thus company and markets ’ long-term health and stability – as critical for investors . one signatory , calpers , one of the world ’s largest institutional investors , has gone a step further : it will require all of its investment executives to identify and integrate esg factors into their decision-making – a bold move that could transform capital markets .
in a sense , this might seem like a fine one , too . in international politics , perceptions matter – sometimes more than reality . the perception today is that america ’s unipolar moment has arrived at an end ; europe is on a downward trajectory ; and a new set of powers is rising , bringing their own singular worldviews to global affairs . a more heterogeneous outlook could enrich multilateral processes and generate more comprehensive problem-solving worldwide . but this multipolar dynamic also generates instability .
in britain and some european countries , animal welfare became politically salient , with pressure from parliamentary representatives mounted . the european union established the scientific committee to investigate animal-welfare issues , with the committee prohibiting battery cage alongside some other forms of close confinement of portugal and its calves . some supermarket chains even ceased to carry out eggs from battery hens . to its credit , the british egg industry accepted the situation , and developed new , less vicious methods of keeping hens afloat . a ban on eu battery cages was eventually adopted in 1999 , but ensuring that producers have ample time to phase out the plant when they invest , its implementation slowed until january 1 , 2012 .
this may sound utopian ; in a sense , it is . but at a time when each digital service will become more and more personalized , why should social policies remain confined to twentieth-century philosophy and twentieth-century solutions ? finally , the same accounts could serve as public-policy vehicles . early school-leavers , for example , could be capitalized with points for later use in professional training . more broadly , rather than anticipating people ’s outcome only when their social hazards materialize , public policies could stimulate individuals throughout their work by adopting a more effective bespoke approach that peoples fits better than coarsely tailored schemes .
indeed , outspokenness has been the hallmark of wolfensohn ’s tenure . many government minister , bank officer , and ngo ’s experience has lived up to his blunt criticism , as have his effusive praise . it used to note that corruption even in some official circles was perceived as taboo . but corruption poses the one largest obstacle to growth and development in a wide range of countries , particularly as it diverges resources from the poor . the world bank ’s insistence that corruption be viewed as petty cancer has been rendered synonymous with fighting poverty .
nor is china on the same page as the other brics countries when it comes to global institutional reform . it is a revisionist power , related to the global financial architecture , that seeks an overhaul of the bretton woods system . but it is the status quo power with respect to the un system and steadfastly opposes enlargement of the security council ’s permanent membership . in reality , the modest actions that have been implemented in response to the changing distribution of global power have so far been confined to the economic realm , with the hard core of international relations – peace and security – leaving the exclusive preserve of a handful of countries . formation of the g20 , for example , was politicized improvisation designed to defer genuine financial-sector reform .
whether it does depend heavily on whether the important instruments that support equality of opportunity , principally education , and health care are highly accessible . intergenerational mobility is a key determinant of equality of opportunity . rising inequality of outcomes may not lead to lower intergenerational mobility . it may result in gridlock , conflict , or poor policy choices . the evidence supports the view that subgroups ’ systematic exclusion on any arbitrary basis ( for example , ethnicity , race , or religion ) is especially harmful in this regard .
of the roughly 500 crowdfunding platforms that now exist , a few specifically target-based clean technologies . other increasingly prominent trends – for example , collaborative consumption , pay per usage , and share and leasing models – could offer similarly powerful impetus for such efforts . the proliferation of information technology and social media means that it is actually easier than ever for business leaders to tap into massive pools of finance – not to mention contacts and expertise , from small investors . last may , eureeca.com took the crowdfunding concept further than ever before to create the first truly global crowd-investing marketplace offering equity in london-based firms . if used wisely , such platforms could adopt the slack created by governments ’ fiscal constraints to ease the entrepreneurial innovations required to build a blue economy .
in 1971 , fighting broke out when bangladesh , then known as east pakistan , declared independence from pakistan . in the ensuing conflict , refugees poured across the border into neighboring india into crowded camps , creating conditions that had inevitably given birth to cholera outbreaks . as many lay dying , a pioneering doctor named dilip mahalanabis took a chance in a desperately poor situation . the standard for paying in the period was poor , and a dearth of intravenous drips meant that solutions could not be administered widely . bangladesh knows wartime cholera all too well .
madrid – april 22 , 2017 , – international earth day marks the one year since the signing of the paris climate agreement , which entered into force last november and now has 195 signatories . that landmark multilateral treaty still represents the most significant step forward to a date in the global fight against climate change . the paris agreement ’s central objective is to prevent the increase in average world temperatures from rising more than 2º celsius above pre-industrial levels by 2100 . in 2016 , the hottest year on record , the average global temperatures reached 0.9 º c above the twentieth-century average . yet its first anniversary darkened with us president donald trump ’s own energy policies .
the atheistic nature of today ’s civilization ( ours is the first atheistic civilization in the history of humankind , and the first civilization that embraces the whole planet ) fits profoundly , i believe , with the hyper-trophic pursuit of individual concerns and individual responsibilities coupled with a crisis of global responsibility . is there any sense in attempting to turn the human mind to the skies , when such a reversal will only aggravate conflicts on earth among the followers of our various deities ? could humanity think only within the confines of what lies within its field of vision , and is incapable of remembering also what lies beyond , not but was a consequence of the loss of metaphysical certitude , of the loss of god ? but how to restore in humans ’ minds to a sense of shared attitude toward what lies above us , when people across the globe share a different image of which is above if people everywhere feel the need to emphasize their “ otherness ” ? even more downtrodden , may not today ’s crisis of responsibility and accountability for the world as a whole , and for its future defined the modern concept of the world as controlled by scientifically identifiable laws ; formulated for god-knows – that is , a concept that does n’t question or seek the deeper meaning of existence and renounces any metaphysics ?
major reform also needs major reform of how the transition is financed . at the heart of this transformation is the energy transition that , though underway , has been lagging or stalled in much of the rest of the world . a more ambitious effort by energy providers and the leading end of users is critical , because it expands affordable and reliable clean-energy services available to everyone who needs them . he has thrown down gauntlet to the world ’s major economies : tell us when you phase out coal ; end harmful fossil-fuel subsidies ; and shift taxation from income to pollution . those are the decisions that will drivethe transformations that the global needs .
new haven – central bankers worldwide have been unable to see the current financial crisis coming before its beginnings in 2007 . and yet , even as these central banks failed us officials prior to the crisis , they still should have played a leading role in preventing the next crisis . macro-prudential regulators ( government officials who focus not on the soundness of individual financial institutions , but , rather , on the stability of the entire financial system ) are sorely needed , and central bankers are logical people to fill that role . that is the conclusion , perhaps counter-intuitive , that the squam lake group [ http///squamlakegroup.org/financial economists , a think tank of 15 academic financial economists to whom i belong , reached in our recently published report , fixing the financial system . martin čihák of the international monetary fund reported in july 2007 that , of 47 central banks found publishing financial stability reporting ( fsrs ) , “ virtually all ” given a positive overall assessment of their domestic financial system ” ” ” in their most recent
while vowing during the presidential campaign to end redaca , he also acknowledged the moral case for preserving it , saying that it would be faced with a “ very hard ” choice . and , even after his repeal was announced , he declared his intention to “ resolve the daca issues with heart and sympathy . ” sadly , in making that choice , the president-elect opted to turn away from the classic american vision engraved around the pedestal of the pedestal of the statue of liberty in new york city harbor , expressed in emma lazarus ’s poem that begins , “ give me tired , your poor , your huddled masses yearning to breathe free . ” that credo benefited tens of millions of newcomers , and immeasurably strengthened america . yet , apparently convinced that daca ’s beneficiaries had removed jobs from their citizens , he concluded that equal heartlands and sympathy in the us requires “ “ “ “ “ “ for the unemployed , big fights ” and forgotten americans . ”
amlo ’s decision to lower the salaries of public-sector employees has already led numerous high-ranking officials to seek jobs elsewhere . those who are eligible for early retirement accept it rather than waiting for amlo ’s cut . tax collectors , regulators , and prosecutors need adequate resources to win their tough battles . they want oil and mining concessions that would be allocated efficiently and maximized government revenues . trying to meet these valuable tasks while paying below-market salaries is penny wise but pound foolish .
furthermore , global co2 emissions reached a record high in 2012 . and the international energy agency reports that global temperatures are on track to rise to 3.6-5.3 º fahrenheit ( 6.5-9.5 ° celsius ) above pre-industrial levels , far beyond the many two degrees that climate scientists have identified as the 2º celsius threshold that would trigger the most catastrophic effects of climate change . yet , to accelerate the pace of energy-related innovation , creative coalitions among governments , private companies , and civil-society groups should be established in three key areas . the first coalition , comprising a group of committed governments , would seek to fuel the cost of renewables , at least temporarily , within a decade . clearly , the third industrial revolution still needs support from the third industrial revolution .
sao paulo – as well-intentioned gestures move , earth hour is hard to beat . first organized in sydney , australia , in a local chapter in the world wildlife fund , its popularity , and a level of participation ( both individual and official ) that generates have exploded in recent years , to a point that there is barely a corner of earth that the campaign has failed to touch . sao paulo , as well-intentioned gestures move , earth hour is hard pressed to beat it . first organized in sydney , australia , for example , in a local chapter in the world wildlife fund , its popularity , and a level of participation ( both individual and official ) that generates have exploded in recent years , to a point that there is barely a remote corner of the earth that the campaign has failed to touch . in showing official solidarity , the lights also walked out in many of the planet , from a opera house in sydney to a great pyramid in giza , not to mention beijing ’s forbidden city , new york city state building , london ’s big-ben , paris tower , and skype across both hong kong and las vegas .
but britain has joined the european community , not just the free-trade area that cameron now seems to desire . nonetheless , the undertow of euro-skepticism in british politics has never waned , and became apparent in cameron ’s own address . even the supremacy of european law in defined areas was accepted only grudgingly by britain , and long after many others did so . indeed , in his speech at the time , cameron was unable to resist a passing shot at the european court of justice . in essence , the british point of view was that , by a loose confederation of nation-states to cooperate on trade , a free-trade area created as much european as the uk needs to .
estimates for 2012 suggest that 88 % of global air-pollution-related deaths occur at very low – to middle-income countries , representing 82 % of the world ’s population . to be sure , the us coal industry has helped billions of people escape from poverty , not least in china , where coal-fired power has underpinned almost 700 % growth in per-capita income since 1990 . but human health is at greater risk in a country that burning more coal ! research for the global commission on the economy and climate last year calculated that particulate matter still caused 1.23 million premature deaths in china – the world ’s top coal-consuming economy – in may 2010 . coal-fired power is also the leading source of carbon dioxide , the leading greenhouse gases responsible for climate change , causing about 150,000 premature deaths annually , and posing pervasive hazards this century and beyond .
in politics , this may prove to be dangerous , because it encourages basing decisions , regardless of whether popular opinion momentarily prevails . the call for more referenda on both reflects and fuels this trend . but sometimes this desire appears overwhelming in post-modern democracies everywhere . true , one stage of democracy nowadays has embraced a pop culture of fast-passing feads ; today ’s hysteria-generating pop group is forgotten tomorrow , and always more of waiting in the wings . as a result , referenda are a part of snapshots .
unless i know that a person is on behalf of me , perhaps i ca n’t even know what company it is about . the best subject line is telling what the message is about and signals a desired response : “ invitation to speak in paris on july 14 . ” unfortunately , i get a lot of messages headlined , “ updates . ” she could , perhaps , say “ message for president barack obama ” have been running an open letter if she were sharing an open letter , but otherwise … ” unfortunately , i am getting a lot of messages headlined , “ updates . ”
and yet the changes currently afoot may just turn things around . india ’s octogenarian prime minister , manmohan singh , recently awakened to the desperate need for renewed momentum . economists around the world took note of the advent of raghuram rajan as chief economist at the finance minister . rajan is a superstar academic researcher , the brilliant novelist on the political economy , and the belgian chief economist for the imf . but it ’s far from apparent that sonia gandhi , the president of india ’s national congress party and the country ’s most powerful politician , shares singh ’s reform agenda .
these can not be identi­cal for the scientific method , but they should be analogous in character , enshrining the pursuit of truth as the criteria by which political views are to be sought . the separation of powers , free speech , and free elections alone can not ensure open societies ; a powerful commitment to the pursuit of truth also requires that we be able to do so . lastly , we need to establish new ground rules for political discourse . we must abandon popper ’s tacit assumption that political discourse aims to achieve a better understanding of reality , and reintroduce it as an explicit requirement . what policymakers will respect , rather than manipulate , is that reality only when the public cares about truth and punishes politicians when it seizes them in deliberating deception .
the explanations range from anthropological to borderline racist : indians do not possess the genes , build , stamina , climate , whatever . a developing country is a developing country , it is argued ; after all , it is not just your eye against his , your legs against beers , but what to do against their trainer , their running shoe , their ergodynamic costume , its titanium archer ’s bow . yet those rationales will not do anything : other developing countries , from jamaica to ethiopia , regularly rake in the medals . why do indian athletes perform so badly ? there are both structural and infrastructural explanations : poor training facilities , gymnasiums , running tracks , equipment , finance .
and , following his victory in the presidency in 2000 , bush declared iraq one of his top two security priorities . soon enough , the bush administration became obsessed with promoting the notion that iraq possessed weapons of mass destruction , despite the absence of any conclusive evidence . not coincidentally , bush ’s administration included ten of the pearl harbor declaration of principles , including dick cheney as vice president and donald rumsfeld as secretary of defense . likewise , in september 2002 , rumsfeld received the now-declassified intelligence report stating that “ we do not know with any kind of accuracy about how much we do n’t know about the specific status of wmd programs , ” in iraq . as early as january 1998 , the neoconservative project of a new american century ( pyecheney ) sent a letter to then-president bill clinton urging him to overthrow saddam hussein .
r evolutions give birth to a new political class , and iran ’s islamic revolution was no exception . in the 20 years since khomeini ’s death , the composition of this political class has drastically changed . the greatest difference between 2009 and 1979 stems from the revolution itself . the iranian leadership formed after the revolution consisted of a narrow ruling stratum and a much broader shia supportive group , given administration and political mobilization . the clerical elite has gradually lost power to military-security groups from which ranks president mahmoud ahmadinejad has emerged .
the targeted killing by the united states by one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 that what will weigh on the present for many years to come . yet we should not exaggerate the significance of this perspective .
finally , we need fact-based solutions . too often , biased assumptions guide policymaking . research shows that many girls worldwide – and especially those in the global south – simply are not prepared for menarche ; education can help . when programs are developed , in conjunction with rigorous investigation , the effect can be dramatic . for example , a joint soas-oxford study on menstruation in uganda found that adolescent girls often missed out on school , owing to lack access to clean sanitary products .
under these conditions , it would be more surprising if depositors were not rushing to withdraw their funding from greek banks . nor is the greek state experiencing “ wherewithal ” to stand up behind its banks . economists have long understood that in the absence of a credible lender of last resort , banks are vulnerable to self-fulfilling confidence-building crises . that lender can be monetary or fiscal , and in greece both types are in doubt . if greece ’s deal with the eu and the imf unravels , the european central bank will no longer accept greek bonds as collateral .
in the short run , by contrast , declining countries often take on more risks , and are therefore more dangerous , witness the austro-hungarian empire in 1914 . this has created a political dilemma for the eu . first and foremost , it is important to resist putin ’s game-changing calls for the post-1945 liberal order ’s prohibition of using force by states to usurp territories from their neighbors . russia , almost entirely dependent on revenues derived from its own energy resources , is a “ one crop economy ” ” ” with corrupt institutions and insurmountable demographic and health problems . president vladimir putin ’s interventions in neighboring and the middle east , as well as his cyber attacks against the us and others , however intended to make russia look great again , only to aggravate the country ’s long-term prospects .
preventing the eu from falling apart will require , first and foremost , a strategic solution to the greek crisis . the continuing poker game between the greek government and the troika ( the european commission , the european central bank , and the international monetary fund ) is hurting all the parties involved , and most of europe . ultimately , it can come to an end only with a restored bailout of greece , or with europe ’s plunge into catastrophe . greece needs both money and reform , fast as well as within the eurozone and the eu . governments in athens , brussels , and even berlin can not live with greece as failing states and economies .
trump ’s presidency provides new opportunities for china to cement its role as an investment provider and all manner of infrastructure and assistance to a host of aspiring countries . and , indeed , china ’s exceptional diplomatic predilapidated approach across the african continent ( and , increasingly , southeast asia ) has rendered it an alternative hegemonic power – one that came without the west as a colonial baggage or moralizing on democracy and human rights . as trump embraces isolationism , the other so-called brics countries – brazil , russia , india , and south africa – are set to fill the vacuum just as well . trump ’s presidency provides china with new opportunities to cement its role as an investment provider and all manner of infrastructure and assistance to a host of eager countries to develop . his unilateralist approach is likely to drive the us into playing catch-up with a “ one while ” left nearly unswerving on its continued effort to win over the hearts and minds of those whose countries it views as vitally important , economically , and politically , for their own strategic interests .
austin – living in a town is turning you into a cannibal . urbanites are turning you into a cannibal . urbanites are becoming the kind of people ready to sacrifice one another to satisfy their appetites : cannibals . that , at a minimum , is the metaphor favored by jean-jacques rousseau , who viewed cities as a boon to human corruption . urbanization inures humans into rural suffering , and , as confirmed by a rose-tinted mob , their compassion capacity towards others atrophies . rousseau was so convinced of the malign impact of urbanization that he “ would rather see the man grazing on meadow grasslands than cowed across cities .
in this scenario , chinese consumption would surpass that of the us in dollar terms . if not , could any other country fill that role , even in part ? looking forward to the 2021-2030 period , an annual growth rate of 8 % ( compared to the fed ’s 10 % rate of the last decade ) and a gradual increase in consumption to 50 % of gdp would translate into chinese consumer spending of $ 18.4 trillion annually by 2030 . the question at the beginning of 2019 , then , is what it will mean for the global economy unless this scenario translates out . if apple , in its recent forward guidance points to an earlier-than-expected reduction in chinese consumption , will american consumers be able to serve as the global economy ’s sole engine for yet another decade ?
but china has not shied away from a third mismatch , between gdp and equity : its credit-fueled ratio has doubled over the last decade , from about 110 % in 2008 to 220 % in 2017 , highlighting china ’s under-developed long-term capital and equity markets . nor can policymakers afford to ignore the fourth mismatch – between ultra-low nominal interest rates and the relatively higher risk-adjusted return on equity ( roe ) to investors , which has helped to spur speculative investment and widening wealth and income inequality . at least four of these “ mismatches ” lay at the root of past episodes of global financial crises , and three plague china today . first , with its andean financial system , china ( along with its european and many major emerging economies ) suffers from a maturity mismatch , owing to short-term borrowing and long-term lending . yet , unlike many other emerging economies , china is not wrestling with a currency mismatch , owing to its large foreign-exchange reserves and persistent current-account surpluses , rendering it a net lender to the rest of the world .
events of the last 15 months – beginning with the deepwater horizon oil spill in the gulf of mexico , followed by the treadmill violence in north africa and the tragedy in japan – confront a world with a stark choice between the costs and risks of conventional energy supplies and the promise and advances of clean energy . with the goal of 20 gw of solar-generating capacity from 2020 to more than 2 % , investment in india could grow rapidly . indeed , over the last few decades , europe has been the engine of energy modernization . in the years ahead , such leadership will take the form of helping to capture the economic , ecological , and security benefits of renewable energy . reaffirming its commitment to rapid decarbonization of its energy system , together with creative policies to support it , will help europe continue to reap the rewards of one of the most remarkable new market opportunity in living memory .
human ingenuity appears to know with no bounds when it comes to dreaming about protectionist barriers . for example , protectionism often masquerades as labor , food , environmental , and phytosanitary standards , or as arguments against local content requirements , infant industries , protections for intellectual property , climate policies , dispute resolution , or human rights . even absent tariffs and quotas , trade can be impeded through subsidies , taxes , anti-dumping laws , restrictions on foreign direct investment , and exchange-rate manipulation . in october 1982 , before that november , the french government required that all japanese unhcr imports enter the country through “ poitiers , ” the city of hundreds of kilometers from the nearest such shipping port . this non-tariff barrier to trade remained in effect until april 1983 .
washington , dc – to defeat populism requires coming to grips with a fundamental reality : bad economic policies no longer necessarily result from a government that is losing power . in fact , it is now entirely possible that irresponsible populists may actually reinforce their chances of being reelected by getting wilder , and making impossible promises – and causing even more economic damage . a targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of heightened challenges to america 's interests elsewhere in the world .
as a result , by 2006 , global liquidity amounted to more than twice world gdp . two other destabilizing developments emerged in the last quarter of the twentieth century : strong incentives to use post-crisis debt to prop up demand ; and a shift toward financing public-sector debt through market-based private institutions , under the guise of combating inflation . the financial sector has since made every effort to design instruments that guard against price volatility , turn private-sector debt into tradable financial securities , and gained access to speculative markets . these trends boosted the public-debt burden while flooding the global financial system with liquidity created by privately owned banking activities that were unlocked into transactions in the real economy . but such efforts paved the way for deception and delinquency , thereby drawing on a wave of new financial crises , from europe in 1992 to asia in 1997 and august in russia in 1998 , just like brazil in europe and the united states in the early 2000 ’s .
and chile ’s national public-investment scheme evaluates all proposed public projects using standard formulation , procedures , and metrics – and rejects as many as 35 % . additional saving opportunities – to the tune of $ 400 billion annually – lie in more streamlined delivery of infrastructure projects . there is plenty of scope to accelerate land-acquisition approvals and land acquisition , structure contracts to encourage innovation and saving , and improve collaboration with contractors . similarly , the united kingdom has established a cost-review program that has identified 40 major high-return projects , reformed overall planning processes , and then formed a cabinet sub-committee to ensure faster projects delivery , thereby cutting infrastructure spending by more than 15 % . in australia , the new south wales state cut approval times by as much as 11 % in just one year .
other categories include entrepreneurship ( with entities like employers , industries , and employees ) ; biology , soil flight ; and a lot more ; and include representations – like graphs , timelines , and tables – of how they are interconnected . and that means better , more meaningful responses as we prepare to do . what most of these are not actually doing in isolation ; that is what we know . they have complex relationships to different matters , and by representing that information using verbs – for example , “ the company that google has acquired ” vs. “ company ” that google competes with ” ” ” ” – that we can represent the world more accurately . at the same time , you will soon be able to make it . and it means better , more meaningful responses , when we also identify .
now , the european union is considering legislation to compel corporate boards to retain a certain proportion of women – up from around 60 % . this proposed mandate has been born of frustration . last year , european commission president viviane reding issued a call to make voluntary action . reding invited corporations to sign on the gender balance goals of a 40 % female board of ministers . the forte foundation in america has now followed suit , with its own “ bogle list ” of women .
cambridge – at the dawn of classes every fall , i tease my students with a subsequent question : was it better for a rich country , or rich in a poorer country ? by that point , the question typically invites a considerable and inconclusive debate . but we can devise a more structured , limited version , for which there is a definitive answer . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of heightened challenges to american interests elsewhere around the world .
she has rescued , because she wants enough money to retire , and the money she needs to take to where it is up . indeed , america may well be in the process of adding a pension crisis to the unemployment problem . alternatively , low interest rates could put pressure on her ( or her pension fund ) to purchase risky longer-term bond bonds . given that such bonds are already aggressively priced , such a move might thereby tip her off until interest rates finally rise . given the horrendous returns on savings since 2007 , the prospect that they could continue low interest rates could force her government to put even more money aside .
after all , the smooth power transitions are not to be taken for granted . what made zambia ’s election so important is that the challenger won . indeed , he has defeated an incumbent who truly wants to keep the job , and who might reasonably be tempted to follow the lead of other african leaders defeated in a popular vote by simply refusing to receive the result . to be sure , the zambians ’ achievement can not compete with an intervention in libya or the drama of the arab spring . and yet , what has happened in zambia is related to these developments , and thus to question everywhere .
russia ’s diplomatic weaknesses have been starkly apparent in syria . its use of hard power has won the civil war for president bashar al-assad ’s dictatorship , revealed how the strategic deployment of an unrestrained military buildup – witness aleppo ’s total destruction – can be a game-changer . but russia has since become mired in local frictions between syria and turkey , saudi arabia and iran , turkey , and the kurds , and israel and iran . as it stands , syria is russia ’s one client state in the middle east . while a us neutrality policy has enabled russia to maintain a dialogue with the other side , it will do nothing to create a new regional order .
with external debt trimmed by rescheduling , foreign capital flowed again once again . investors were willing to buy even 11,100-year bonds from a country with eight sovereign-default obligations over the past two centuries . investor enthusiasm and the domestic political honeymoon each had persisted for as long as the international environment remained benign . but , again , the external financing problem was not a temporary phenomenon ; on the contrary , argentinian electorate soon rammed bristle at the reform demanded by the imf . but when the inflows faltered in 2018 , on again , the imf had to foot once again , closing the external financing gap with an astounding $ 50 billion of borrowing schemes ( later raised to $ 57 billion ) .
moreover , alternative approaches to stimulating private-sector demand might have fewer undesirable distributional consequences , as mgi has discussed . proponents of helicopter money – either directly crediting citizens with a central bank fund , or crediting national treasuries to financing infrastructure and other demand-generating activities – rightly argue that it has the advantage of putting money directly into the hands of those who spend it . indeed , inducing demand might give central banks the opening they need to shift interest rates back toward historical norms . this could take the air of incipient assets bubbles , which may arise and ease downward pressures on institutional investors struggling to find the yield they need to meet their insurance and pension obligations . an appropriately sized <UNK> ter-money agenda might also raise inflation in a measured way , heading off the japanese-style deflationary trap .
that was followed by the two visits he made to haiti over the previous 18 months , and by a donor at the time he sponsored in april that he sought to raise $ 300 million in aid and investment . more recently , ban took a more active part in the gaza crisis . he regularly defended palestinians ’ right to statehood , but also denounced hamas ’s rocket attacks against south israel . during the fighting in gaza in early july , he publicly pressed his stop to the warfare , demanding that israel open gaza ’s borders to forbearance aids . he also visited the un compound at the heart of gaza to express the un ’s grave concern over its bombing .
according to the international monetary fund ’s april 2011 world economic outlook , although volatility in capital flows has increased worldwide , it is higher in emerging-market economies than in the advanced economies . moreover , spillover effects from advanced economies ’ expansionary monetary policies extend well beyond financial shocks . emerging economies are also suffering from the effects of developed countries ’ external imbalances – particularly the eurozone ’s swelling current-account surplus . in the last couple of years , deficit economies in the eurozone ’s periphery – and , more recently , italy ’s – have pursued massive external adjustments , while germany and the netherlands have sustained their large surpluses . boom-bust financial cycles are fueled largely by the shocks generated in the advanced economies , but are key determinants of emerging markets ’ business cycles .
first , the unrivaled dominance of egypt ’s army , and the unlikelihood of partition in its leadership makes any large-scale violence untenable , especially given that the egyptian state ’s struggle against terrorism in the 1980 ’s and 1990 ’s dramatically weakened jihadist groups in the country . finally , despite egypt ’s significant demographic and economic transformation over the past four decades , egyptian society still retains its agrarian character , undermining conciliation and compromise . in a country with over 45 million people under the age of 35 , no politico-ethnic player with any strategic insight can afford the prolonged impasse . but , even in an inclusive political transition – whether in the short or medium term – egyptians will have to answer for a vexing question that they have failed for six decades to confront : what is egypt ? second , the empowered force of political islam may now be carrying out passions , wrath , and feelings of victimization ; but they will inevitably opt to participate in domestic politics through organized structures and trials .
the same has been true of lesser powers like iran and venezuela . south africa ’s largely peaceful transition to a multiracial democracy in the early 1990 ’s coincided with a further advance toward rights . but the past decade of the twentieth century also became indelibly stained by ethnic cleansing in ex-yugoslavia and the genocide in rwanda , and during the current decade , the tide seemed to turn against the rights cause . a factor that contributed to their demise marks a shift in thinking that transformed the east-west conflict away from one emphasizing economic systems . south africa ’s largely peaceful transition to a multiracial democracy in the early 1990 ’s followed a further advance on rights . powerful states like china and russia are not restricting themselves to authoritarian rule at home ; on the contrary , they are supporting those in other countries engaged with similar practices .
supply chains now can have as many important international linkages as domestically , with a substantial share of internal demand being satisfied by products partly or wholly manufactured abroad . as technological innovations further reduce the entry barriers for both producers and consumers , the proliferation of such linkages becomes even easier , exacerbating what already is essentially a spaghetti bowl of cross-border interactions and dependencies . for the longer-term health of both individual players and the global system , these relationships must function efficiently , underpinned by a cooperative approach that views itself as credible . this is why the present confrontation between the us and china has fueled fears of severe harm , particularly if it leads to ever-greater protectionism and a broader “ trade war . ” if not , they risk stemming from lower gdp growth and welfare .
once out in the cool , it will have to decide which the economic bloc to align , and then to accept that the bloc ’s rules will be . this is not to say that sovereignty , or satrapy , is not about satrapy . there is a question simply about whether the us would prefer china ’s approach to intellectual property and technology transfers over those of the west , or about european food and agricultural standards over those of the u.s. . if britain wants to do business with others , then it will have to agree to common rules . if britain insists on pursuing some kind of purist definition of sovereignty , it will find only grief and isolation .
deleveraging by governments , financial institutions , and households is one key cause of sluggish economic recovery . but sluggish growth means less tax revenues and more demand for payments to cushion hardships , putting downward pressure on government budgets . in the us , which has the most progressive income tax among the major economies , federal tax reforms that would lower rates and mend fundamentals are being discussed . in europe , structural reforms focus on higher retirement ages and labor-market flexibility . the gamble has been that a robust , durable recovery would enable banks and households to rebuild their balance sheets rapidly enough to avoid the need for additional bailouts .
bucerius later challenged thadden more directly , asking whether he would support an attempted coup against adolf hitler in 1944 . but thadden himself avoided offering a straight answer implying that he would not struggle alongside his sister . bauer then interjected that thadden ’s sister was an outspoken member of the opposition . nonetheless , dahrendorf was adamant that the npd ’s fate should be decided by voters , rather than by courts that proclaimed it to be illegal by the communist party . kaul reiterated that idea in a passionate statement ( which had undoubtedly been agreed upon in advance by eastern german leaders ) about excluding western german communists from that debate .
though funding for public infrastructure returned to its 2008 level , little is funneled into new projects . liquidity remains constrained in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis , a legacy that includes a non-profit regulatory regime . in order to overcome the obstacles to investment , we propose creating the asset class what we call buy-and-hold equity “ ( bhe ) . ” that asset class would sit between their traditional assets and their debt levels , with investors able to hold it up for , say , 15 years or longer . most funds have targeted existing infrastructure , investments that are deemed relatively safe , as they incur little or no building risk and demonstrate their potential to generate stable types of cash income .
washington , dc – belarusian president alexander lukashenko is a master of political survival . lukashenko was cajoled by the removal of the russian oil-price subsidies enacted in 2009 to accuse , borrow , or steal enough funds to keep belarus ’s economy out of collapse . he tricked the international monetary fund into expanding the country ’s $ 3.4 billion loan , promising a freer election in december 2010 only to burn that bridge with a brutal crackdown , when faced with an adverse electoral result and the biggest popular protests that his regime faced . now russia has taken a harder line , demanding a high price for borrowing , which is by no means inadequate to rescue the regime . but , following the recent 64 % currency devaluation , the clock seems to be falling out of its prolonged misrule .
in its current struggle with google , for example , china ’s government seems to think that its technologists can provide the means for maintaining old thought control . but liu ’s jailing is also demonstrating in starkest terms that china ’s disregard for human rights is flowing to the outside world alongside the massacres of chinese goods . indeed , it is becoming increasingly obvious that china has opened up its economy solely to keep the country ’s over-mighty rulers out of power , rather than to its self-respect and enhance ordinary china ’s lives . in its current struggle with google , for example , china ’s government seems to think that its technologists can provide the means to maintaining old thought control . but , fortunately for anyone with the persistence and modicum of computer skill , online leaks like sieve .
liu , a master tactician , seems to be underscoring the links between leadership power and the pace of reform . in a recent signed commentary published in people ’s daily , he also noted that “ strengthening the party ’s global leadership is a core issue ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” also noted that “ strengthening the party ’s global leadership is the core issue . ” given these mounting concerns , implementation risks are now being presented in a different light . at the world economic forum in davos in january , liu he , china ’s new economy vice premier , hinted that upcoming reforms would take place with startling speed . such views do not emerge from thin air , either .
a similar picture , though on a lesser scale , exists in many european union member countries that are home to roma minorities . a wide socioeconomic disparity exists between europeans and roma , or “ gypsies ” many of whom live in extreme poverty . the situation of 7-9 million roma living on the continent merits deserve government leaders ’ urgent attention as they shape the policies of an enlarged eu . a similar picture , though on a lesser scale , exists in many european union member countries that are home to roma minorities . left unchanged , this tenacious poverty threatens to become a permanent drag on european prosperity , creating a tragedy for roma and non-roma alike .
but where its actions are inadequate is the right and responsibility of china ’s central government to intervene . it does not have to be this way ; it does not have to be . to help find a solution , we have conducted a pest ( in political , economic , soci, and technological ) analysis of hong kong ’s current situation and future prospects . on the political front , a key lesson is that it is up to a government to ensure order and security . within the “ one country , two systems ” framework , hong kong ’s own government has powers to deal with internal-security matters .
new york – european parliamentary elections are less than four months away , at a turning point . should they fail , the prospect of a parliament dominated by populist forces will become a fact . and this could mark the beginning of a slow-motion process of european disintegration . pro-european forces need a campaign for a coordinated effort to counter both the cyclical slowdown and – most important – the politics of cohesive , aggressive policies to address europe ’s longer-term structural problems . italy , in particular , needs an agenda of research and development , education and social inclusion that could appeal to large segments of the population across its member countries .
elected officials everywhere need to adjust , to varying degrees , to fulfill the expectations of those who place them in office . when asked whether america was prepared to become the world 's richest economy , its citizens became reticent . their reaction was understandable : even entertaining the possibility of america becoming “ “ number two ” amounts to career suicide for an american politician . they are supposedly to weigh in on all opportunities , even disagreeable ones , to prepare a population for prospective trend . by contrast , intellectuals have a special responsibility to think that unthinkable , and to speak the inet .
mexico city – the current era of innovation , in which cutting-edge technologies are disrupting entire sectors of the economy at a breathtaking pace , has been hailed as the fourth industrial revolution . it is the theme of the world economic forum ’s annual meeting this week in davos , switzerland , and rightly so . in the years ahead , the scale and pace of innovation will transform how we produce , distribution , and consume . to maximize the benefits , we must take the steps now to prepare our economies and societies , with a focus on three key areas : education , the business environment , and connectivity . human capital is vitally important to the economy ’s success , and mexico is no exception .
for example , payroll-tax cut – which enables small-scale business-owners and entrepreneurs to expand , innovate , and become more competitive , thereby bolstering job creation and economic growth – might require reducing rents . indeed , italy ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s tax system is skewed toward that of savers . a 12.5 % tax is levied on capital gains generated by government bond owners , while entrepreneurs take risks for their own capital to launch new firms are forced to pay roughly 50 % of their startup costs in taxes . likewise , italy ’s outstanding real-estate tax accounts for roughly 2 % of total government revenues , compared to the oecd average for 4 % – and the government intends to slash it further . and landlords pay a 15 % tax on rents , whereas unskilled workers pay a 23 % tax on their meager incomes .
and , though thousands – perhaps tens of thousands – of polish protesters have rallied behind a nato supreme court in recent weeks , some eight million people voted for the pis in the 2015 elections . kaczyński knows full well that his party commands the most public support , and that the ecj will most likely not be able to act in time . current polls indicate that pis ’s polish popularity has risen to around 40 % – more than twice that of the party ’s previous ruling party , civic platform ( pis ) . this suggests that , while poles might disagree with pis ’s judicial reforms , they are not keen to risk much for free courts – or for liberal-democratic principles more broadly . thus , pis chairman jarosław kaczyński may now announce that , “ the european commission will not break poland ’s will regarding the completion of the reforms … if we fail to reform the judiciary , other reforms will have little sense , ” because sooner or later , they would be negated , withdrawing the courts that the us now has .
tim thought that … hank took a different view , ” and the same thing on , as if the three musketeers interviewed an oral historian . their main interest lies not so much in the narrative of “ chapters ” that cover each other ’s early books as they are in their policy recommendations for the future . it is noteworthy that they have gained a consensus on fairly radical agendas . three proposals especially should compel policymakers in the united states and elsewhere to think hard . there is also some routine praise for the two presidents they worked with , george w. bush and barack obama , and reprise their frustration with people who looked not to the world their way and obstructed their solutions , like sheila bair of the federal deposit insurance corporation ( fdic ) and various pesky congressional members .
similarly , 89 % of respondents in the united kingdom feel that trump is arrogant , while only 50 % still believe that the us and the united kingdom have special relationships now with him in office . this may help to explain why trump ’s scheduled state visit to the united kingdom has been postponed indefinitely . the countries where trump holds the most widespread domestic support are poland ( 73 % see american favorably ) and hungary ( 63 % ) , both of which are led by populist right-wing governments . the sentiment toward trump is even more unfavorable in western europe . in germany , just 6 % of respondents feel that he has qualified for holding his current office , and 91 % regard him as arrogant .
in his sixteenth century , control of colonies and gold bullion gave spain a edge ; seventeenth-century holland profited from trade and finance ; eighteenth-century france acquired from its larger population and armies ; and nineteenth-century british power rested on its industrial primacy and its navy . shortly thereafter , us secretary of state hillary clinton made it clear that “ america can not fix ” today ’s most pressing problems , and the world can not solve them without america . today , it is far from clear how the balance of power is measured , much less how to develop successful survival strategies . conventional wisdom has always held that the state with the largest military prevails , but in an information age that may become the state ( or the non-state ) with the best story to prevail . in his 2009 inaugural address , us president barack obama stated that “ us power grows through its prudent use ” ; our security disavows from the justness of the us cause ; the force of the us example ; the tempering qualities of humility and restraint that they provide .
more recently , german finance minister wolfgang schäuble sparked controversy when , evidently drawing inspiration away from that experience , he said that “ france will be glad if somebody can force a parliamentary ” to reform . the truth , of course , is that authoritarian systems – whatever their short-run successes in holding the line against irresponsible policies – become unsustainable in the long run . a lack of accountability inevitably generates corruption and inefficiency – the problems with which china today ’s wrestling . the public-consensus supporting difficult reforms in eastern europe in the 1990s demonstrates that voters are capable of comprehending and embracing tradeoffs when they have no perceived alternative . the challenge facing democracies lies in developing mechanisms that enable them to establish policies that are sustainable over the long term , while defending the democratic process itself .
my father realized that he could n’t go it alone and required better access to financing . my father realized that he could n’t go it alone , and that he would need better access to financing . the most important change that my father made came in his thinking : he came to think about farms not just as subsistence operations , but as a family business . he turned to the university of nebraska , where he got his undergraduate degree and was earning hybrid maize and other improved seeds that the university was developing . he had to stay in nebraska , and was helping my grandfather save his family farms from the banks that had already repossessed one-third of the land .
and it means making europe , together with our auto industry , the continent ’s first electricity-vehicle continent by 2030 . second , europe needs to position itself to lead the lead in the responsible use of resources , and to become a truly circular economy that minimizes waste . today , eight billion tons of materials are processed into the eu ’s energy or manufactured goods annually . just $ 0.6 billion , just behind 7.5 % , originate from recycling . it also means applying stringent co2 emission limits to new travelers , public transportation , and commercial sea and air travel .
recognizing this trend , the world economic forum ’s global agenda council has brought together a group of experts and practitioners to help the infuse substance into america ’s foreign-policy debates leading to elections , including by preparing public debate paper for themselves . this is not simply a matter of semantics ; such a change will require the american people to re-conceive its role in the world . but the payoff , for both america and the liberal world order that it has created , would be substantial . the key to its success will be america ’s ability to retain its best – and abandon the worst – of what most american notions : exceptionalism . from my perspective as the group ’s sole european group , an overarching message should be that america must conceive of itself not as “ indispensable power ” as it now does , but as “ the indispensable partner . ”
between 1,500 and 1870 , per capita income has barely moved from $ 600 , while the uk ’s quadrupled ( from $ 714 to $ 3,190 ) and even spain ’s has doubled . china ’s political stability , and the relative absence of violent violence , has thus been achieved at the expense of economic dynamism , not in harmony with it . xiang argues that china ’s recent economic rise is simply a “ restoration ” of the country enjoyed before nineteenth-century western intrusions disrupted its harmonious system . outsiders misread this system , “ built upon a clearly defined scheme , ” ” ” ” – as xiang describes it , with “ blood-lines royal legitimacy at the top and “ scholar ” gentry to administer state ” affairs – as a recipe for stagnation . but the belated angus maddison ’s estimates of historic gdp per capita indicate that china ’s economically “ retardation ” began well before its encounters with the west .
moreover , morocco is a loyal and longstanding american ally . morocco is well positioned to promote security and development across northwest africa and beyond . its political stability , open economies , and balanced international relations are increasingly aligned with america and europe ’s regional interests . this principle of regional solidarity extends to morocco ’s deployment of military hospitals not only in mali , but also elsewhere in conflict zones , such as one in jordan that serves syrian refugees . a west would do well to begin cultivating one ’s natural partner in a so dangerous and complex region .
as i grow older , i am no longer certain why this is so important , but the male members of our species seem to think that it is . the issue for women faculty members , particularly in the basic sciences , is far more complicated . i suspect that here the problem reflects crucial differences between how women and men approach science as a microcosm of life . most of my fellow male faculty are not muscle-bound , testosterone-driven , but in their scientific careers depicts two types of typically male behavior . the first involves the compulsion to be the first to establish entirely trivial realities about science .
so far , syria ’s authorities have refrained from reacting to a tharwa project . but the project seems to represent a type of activity that can help to produce visions of change . this , together with the advisory council ’s prominence ( which includes the well-known egyptian sociologist saad eddin ibrahim , a french expert on the political islam gilles kepel , afghanistan , and flynt leverett , an county of brookings fellow ) , and a sensitivity to minority rights in general , combined to give a project national , regional , and international notice . some in the syrian government might well be aware of this . it is still probably too soon to go around for that .
that growth reflects the flawed economic model of the pre-crisis years , which relied on indifference to where growth came from , how sustainable it was , and who benefited from it . every new bilateral agreement , every chapter in globalization , should measure up against new criteria . how sustainable , and how evenly spread will it be ? will they facilitate genuine development and provide dignified opportunities for those who become economically displaced ? if we are to learn anything from the ongoing crisis , it must be to start asking the right questions .
cambridge – in its euphoric moment following the soviet union ’s collapse last july , few would suggest that ukraine – an industrialized country with an well-educated labor force and vast natural-resource powerhouse – will suffer stagnation for the next 28 years . and that shift would occur at a time of heightened challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . neighboring poland , which was poorer than ukraine in 1991 , managed nearly triple its per capita gdp ( in purchasing power parity terms ) over the next three decades .
of course , these countries can resist upward pressure on their currencies by accumulating foreign-exchange reserves , much as they did before the global financial crisis . the result is , understandably , still paradoxical : the private money that flows into these countries is recycled to us treasury securities through the investment of accumulating reserves . now consider the other major emerging markets themselves . here currency appreciation is already taking place , pushed by massive capital inflows every year since the second quarter of 2009 , and , in some cases , can already be said to be excessive ( for brazil , for example , ) . why should emerging-market central banks undertake this odd financial intermediation , which represents a major cost , because private-sector bond yields exceed supply ?
the final blow came when interbank lending , which is at the heart of the financial system , was disrupted , because the banks were forced to husband the funds and can not trust their counterparties . credit expansion now has to be followed in a period of contraction , because some new credit and regulatory instruments are blatantly and unsustainable . that has induced the crisis to become more severe than it was since world war ii . the asset-backed commercial paper market came to a standstill , and the special-investment vehicles established by the banks to strip mortgages of their balance sheets can no longer get outside financing . central banks were forced to inject unprecedented quantity of money and extend credit on an unprecedented volume of securities into a broader set of institutions than ever before .
trump ’s greatest difficulty is that the other signatories to the 2015 iran nuclear deal – officially known as the joint comprehensive plan of action ( jcpoa ) – from which he withdrew the united states – have remained committed to the deal . britain , france , germany , russia , and china have also opposed trump ’s imposition of crippling economic sanctions on iran . they are committed to preserving the deal , and doing everything possible to persuade iran ’s leaders to continue to adhere to it . european signatories have established a special mechanism to facilitate trade and business with iran at the risk of us retaliation , while russia and china have broadened their economic and strategic ties with the islamic republic , marking the first time in the western alliance ’s history that america ’s european allies have joined forces with their rivals . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what will happen in 2020 that what will weigh on the present for many years to come .
to compare , on average , the average american pays about 15 cents on the dollar . an efficient way to address this problem exists : solar-power technologies . according to the african progress panel estimates that poor african households would save $ 58 annually by installing solar panels – money that they could spend on education , health , and productive investment . of course , firms providing those panels would also benefit enormously from tapping this huge new market . in other words , some of the world ’s poorest people pay some of the highest prices for their energy .
even the ipcc has included assumptions about such technologies in many of its modeled pathways to keeping global temperatures from rising above 1.5 ºc above pre-industrial levels . today , just 100 corporations are producing 71 % of greenhouse-gas ( ghg ) emissions . the wealthiest 10 % are responsible for about 50 % of ghg emissions , whereas the poorest 50 % produce 10 % of their emissions . yet , unwilling to confront those who are ravaging our planet , their political leaders have latched onto technological solutions , including geoengineering approaches that promise to suck up already-emitted carbon off the earth . that process has stalled for centuries , but has accelerated in recent decades , as select few have acquired ever-larger shares of overall wealth and political clout .
and if growth slows , owing to the higher costs of imported intermediate inputs , the fed can offset that by raising its interest rates more slowly . meanwhile , imports comprise 15 % of america ’s gdp . by contrast , foreign central banks can do likewise . multiply ¥ 0.15 by $ 0.10 ( an hypothesized tariff rate ) , and you get 1.5 % . allow for some replacement away from more expensive imported goods , and the figure drops below 1 % .
suppose that the government gets it right 19 out of 20th , when it relies on suspicion of involvement in terrorist activities to revoke people 's citizenship . if that were true to the decisions made by the uk 's government in 2013 , there would still be a high probability that an innocent naturalized citizen was made stateless . the ability to revoke citizenship without imparting any evidence at public is one reason why a government might prefer this course to arresting and attempts at terrorism suspects . and yet simply de-emphasizing citizenship does not solve the problem of passing at large-scale , suspected terrorist activities , who may then carried out assault elsewhere , unless , as with sakr , it is killed . the bigger question raised by the uk 's proposed legislation is the desirable balance between individual rights , including citizenship rights and the public good .
governments and business together should fund new research and development to drive costs even lower . private-sector firms will compete intensively to lower still further the cost to renewable-energy systems , including coal-fired power generation , energy-storage , and downstream uses such as electric vehicles , electric heating and cooking , and a novel , environmentally friendly economy . specifically , china and india should stop building new coal-fired power plants at home , and capital-exporting countries like china and japan should stop financing new coal-fired power plants in the rest of asia , like pakistan and the philippines . as old fossil-fuel plants age and shut down , they should be repurposed through clean-power generation on a competitive basis , such as renewable-energy auctions . governments should create emissions caps , with the private sector to compete to deliver low-cost solutions .
what the mikta countries share are rapid economic growth and growing influence outside their own borders . many of their challenges and ambitions dovetail with those of the oecd ( the brics , minus russia ) . they have development challenges , but they also are models of economic dynamism and innovation , with a substantial stake in how post-wwii global institutions and rules are supposed to be reshaping . the bottom line , though , is that russia ’s coming absence from the multilateral scene will serve as a catalyst for new thinking on global challenges . in an alphabet soup of international politics , a nine-member , jaawbreaker like bicsmikta , may finally prove too unwieldy to be workable .
other parts of the stimulus went to individuals , but , considering the character of the us fiscal package , increased transfers and spending added more to the national debt , rather than gdp . when the fed saw how weak the upturn remained , it launched a strategy of “ unconventional monetary policies , ” combining large-scale purchases of long-term securities ( quantitative easing ) with promises to keep the short-term federal funds rate exceptionally low for an extended period . the objective was to encourage portfolio investors to shift to equities and other assets , with the resulting increase in their prices spurring household wealth and consumer spending . it was too little to close the output gap , leaving continued downward pressure on demand . much of the fed ’s supposedly “ stimulus ” merely financed spending by state governments , which in other settings would have paid off .
in denmark , my own country , economic readiness is not the issue . as a result , denmark may be the last to vote , but not necessarily to join . indeed , danish voters have already seen most of the benefits of euro membership already coming as a result of the danish krone ’s unquestioned link first to the dm , then to the euro , over the last 15 years . public rejection of the euro in the september 2000 referendum hinged on the failure of europe ’s supporters to explain the difference between that rightless policy and full euro participation . despite its different starting positions , sweden , denmark , and switzerland are all facing this in common : they prefer to see the euro as cap stone in constructing the single market , rather than as a stepping stone to an ever-closer union .
conservatives in both the united states and south korea may argue that north korea needs to move first toward denuclearization , before something of an economic helping hand is on the table . but there is no reason why international efforts to ensure north korea ’s denuclearization must preclude policies aimed at bringing about domestic reform . on the contrary , winning north korea ’s assent to denuclearization , in an environment of absence of far-reaching domestic change , may be impossible . nor should we assume that these goals can not be pursued in the same way . to be sure , north korea ’s regime is not the only obstacle to international engagement .
what once was a relationship among equals has given way to a face-off between debtors and creditors . and no one should doubt that france and its voters mean what they say . at the heart of europe ’s political crisis lies in its economic and financial malaise , which neither national governments nor eu institutions seem able to address . rather than reinforcing pan-european solidarity , economic distress has led to a widening distributional conflict . the mutual distrust that characterizes this conflict can irreparably harm both the union ’s soul and the european project .
in a section of the “ new economy ” dominated by manufacturers ’ economies of scale and consumer economies of scale , a firm that establishes market-based share gains a almost overwhelming advantage . from a market perspective , the larger the market , the larger the cost advantage . the version with the largest market share becomes the norm ; it ’s the easiest to figuring out how to use , the simplest to find support , and the one to work best with other goods ( which are , of course , designed to work best with it ) . unless its competitors take extraordinary , extraordinarily costly steps -- like that taken by microsoft against netscape , her rival within the online browser market , by pouring a fortune into creating his internet explorer and then distributing it for free -- the first firm establishing its dominant market position will reap high returns for as long as its industry lasts . moreover , big-market information goods also contribute more to consumers .
this is why its member states must take the lead in proposing solutions . creating safe , legal pathways for refugees to reach europe is the most urgent priority . this does not imply that every vulnerable migrant must be accepted . but the eu should be more systematically generous in determining how many to admit , and implement organized ways to facilitate entry . such a system would protect all migrants and safeguard europe ( by allowing it to tweak its applicants fully ) .
new york – in recent years , american policy and political institutions have become more deeply polarized than the distribution of views within the american public suggests . as an editorial at the economist recently concluded , “ america ’s political system ” was designed to make legislation at the federal level difficult , not easy . citizens ’ behavior seems not to have changed nearly as dramatically as had their reactions to poll questions . the post-2008 recession aggravated the situation . three-quarters of americans feel connected to their communities and said the quality of life is excellent or good ; 40 % say that working with others in their community is what matters most .
new york – history at any moment can be understood as snapshot , telling us where we are , or as a moving picture of it , telling us not just where we are but where we have been and where we may be headed . it corresponds to an enormous difference . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of heightened challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
initiatives that advance polluting abatement goals , while providing equitable access to services among the central government , should subsidize the central government . likewise , innovation can drive pollution abatement , and it can lead to more efficient forms of adaptation to public health . awareness lies in the third pillar of a strategy to address air pollution . this does not necessarily account for inundating people with narrative stories of global environmental devastation ; on the contrary , it means that an approach might actually lead to desensitization . for example , shenzhen ’s urban aviation mobility ( uam ) project , which provides on-demand helicopter transportation , leverages the city ’s well-known innovative capacities , while addressing congestion .
a saudi protectorate may be the key to achieving this . after some years of such a saudi protectorate over the palestinians , serious negotiations – more or less based on crown prince abdullah ’s proposals for an overall deal – could be relaunched . in the meantime , an de-escalation process , stabilization , and political consolidation within palestinian society is one of the most urgent priorities . perhaps , but , thus far , conventional solutions have proved unworkable , even disastrously . everything else having already failed , it may be the sole choice left for both israelis and palestinians .
and it would have the additional merit of enlightening the german public about the true purpose of saving operation . first , the european financial stability facility must serve to rescue the banking system in the same way that member countries do . bringing the banking system under european supervision , rather than leaving it in the hands of national governments , would be a fundamental improvement that would help to restore confidence . this would allow sovereign over-indebtedness to be restructured without precipitating a banking crisis . despite this added task , the magnitude of the rescue package could remain equal , for any amount used to recapitalize or liquidating the banks would reduce the amount that governments needed .
on the contrary , at the beginning , may yet galvanize many alienated young voters against a government that has earned wary esteem but is not much liked . second , without effective and responsive opposition , governments may become arrogant , careless , and too focused on their own followers . third , at some point over the coming year , the uk will face a referendum on its membership in the european union . while no one knows the position corbyn will take on this issue , one can speculate that he , like some of the trade-union bosses who back him , might decide that the eu is a wealthy man ’s club , thereby precluding the much-needed cross-party consensus in favor of continued membership . in this scenario , leaders of the conservative party ’s far-right component probably think they can dispense with offers of disciplined support to prime minister david cameron and his policies , because labour can never prevail under corbyn in any event .
as a result , the american government felt that it had a weak hand , because it was not ready to allow aig to default on either of its obligations . following the us government ’s infusion of funds in september 2008 , aig ’s losses continued to mount , causing the government to provide substantial amounts of additional capital two months later . when some of these parties refused , the government backed up and financed aig ’s payments on all of its derivative obligations fully . the bailout entailed aig ’s large losses on derivative transactions with us financial institutions , mostly sophisticated players like goldman sachs and spain ’s banco santander . at that point , the us government asked aig ’s derivative counterparties to take a voluntary “ haircut ” – that is , accept a discount on the amount that it owed to them .
in some ways , hamas ’s coup makes things clearer . israel will feel free to retaliate for its cross-border attacks and the continued operation of rocket fire on civilian targets inside the country . at last may , the world needs to recognize that the hopes stirred up the 1990s peace process completely dashed . israel has long since decided that it has little interest in reneging on its control over the gaza strip . gaza is ruled by a totally hostile regime , a country without a global support .
new york – the aberrant period in history is the order of the century or so after america ’s civil war , during which breakthroughs in energy , electrification , telecommunications , and transportation fundamentally reshaped societies . worldwide population grew above 50 % from 1800 to 1900 , and then more than doubled over the subsequent 50 years , with economies growing much faster than in previous centuries . in the late 1970s , growth started to slow in many advanced western economies , and us president ronald reagan and us federal reserve chair alan greenspan ushered in a debt cycle that supercharged activity . human lives became markedly more productive , and life expectancies rose dramatically . meanwhile , technological innovation and demographics constitute headwind , rather than tailwind , for growth ; and financial engineering can not save the day .
the dpj ’s presidency , ichiro ozawa , who once served as ldp secretary general , is an exemplar of this blinkered legacy . japan seems condemned to tolerate chronic , nonsensitwo-party warfare until some crisis forces a realignment of political parties along ideological as well as policy lines . the heart of japan ’s political inertia consists in the current pseudo-two-party system comprising the ldp and the dpj , because parties ’ divisions are in fact devoid of any consistent ideological and political differences . both parties include conservatives and liberals , defense hawks , and the doves . the sad likelihood that the ldp will reform or that the dpj develops into a responsible governing party in the foreseeable future appears slim .
moreover , labour party leader jeremy corbyn , a hardline socialist and closet brexiteer , insists on leading such a government . and , because his suspension of parliament alarmed rebel conservatives , who had previously balked at bringing down their own government , a no-confidence vote now standing a higher chance of succeeding . but bringing down may ’s government would be inadequate to stem a no-deal brexit . that would require conservative rebels , the opposition liberal democrats , and the mps , who quit labour in protest over corbyn ’s leadership to rally behind him – a tall order . likewise , a motley crew of insurgents would need to support the formation of a caretaker government to seek a brexit extension , call a general election , and perhaps also legislate for a second referendum .
asi ’s gains originate from apple ’s intellectual-property ( ip ) rights ( ip ) rights , which rely on us-conducted research and development conducted exclusively in the us ( most underpinning federal government funding ) . those gains should thus be taxed in the us . instead , apple charges a symbolic fee to allow it to profit from apple ’s ip rights , for which it pays a miniscule tax to the irs . that arrangement also demanded the typically vigilant us internal revenue service to play along . curiously , the irs opposes refraining from enforcing apple ’s obligation to pay taxes on its us-sourced ip returns .
each has gained ( or retained ) power by diversifying their societies and mobilizing their electoral base . this gives confrontational politicians a powerful advantage and produces the sort of electoral polarization upon which the pekos fed . this political strategy is , no doubt , efficient . starkly antagonistic accounts and positions tend to win the most exposure , and are gaining the most exposure . the pekos ’ political style has been enabled by a modern news media that , scrambling to participate in audience share , streamline , and sensationalize the issues .
that suggestion may be amusing coming out of the child ; but there is nothing entertained when governments apply it , as they increasingly do , to complex policies involving science and technology . britons had their say during this summer about whether they want gene-spliced or genetically modified ( gm ) , products in their fields and food . the head of the british debates committee , a professor at malcolm grant , called them a “ unique experiment to discover what ordinary people truly think once they have heard of all arguments . ” britons had their say during a summer , for example , about whether they wanted gene-spliced , or “ genetically modified ( gm ) , products in their fields and foodstuffs . ” to gauge public opinion in advance of a decision , scheduled for later this year , on whether to allow commercial gm crops to be sponsored ( at great expense ) a host of public debate around the country .
in reality , the kremlin is financing many of these parties . there are other kremlin supporters as well , including corporate leaders who are willing to go to business as usual with russia , and the academic apologists of the soviet union , who , 25 years after it collapsed , see a potential for vindication . today , european governments appear willing to allow putin to purchase the votes with which he is tearing the eu down . and , with public-opinion polls exposing that a significant minority of europeans fall in line with putin ’s populist rhetoric , his strategy of dividing the eu and nato seems likely to make genuine headway . lenin once said that capitalists will sell the ropes with which they hang .
at the same time , shared global demand for food , fodder , and biomass for fuels is mounting , in turn fueling the value of soil – a failure that has not escaped international investors ’ eyes . for fertile topsoil to form ; in many places , cloudburst is all that is taking to lament it away from it . according to a world bank study , 10-30 % of arable land worldwide is composed of land grabs by millions of african smallholders , pastoralists , and indigenous peoples , were plagued by large-scale investment . in germany alone , construction projects claim an average of more than 75 hectares a day . unseemly farming practices are also to blame : the liberal use of synthetic fertilizers ; for example , decimates organisms inhabiting soils and alter its structure .
convinced that history will judge the us president by his success in containing the iranian threat , broder also presupposes that a war with iran would re-ignite the american economy . that is a strange idea , considering that today ’s two ongoing wars have only so far compounded america ’s vulnerabilities . iran , like north korea , will continue to test obama ’s capacity to build up international alliances aimed at placing additional pressure on the defiant states . the iranian regime has been far too astute to cross any of these red lines . an america ’s war against iran is plausible only as a response to a blatant , immediate iranian challenge to vital american interests , such as a major terrorist attack , an invasion of its gulf ally , or the disruption of the free flow of middle east oil to the west .
it is here that germany should take pause , looking at the record . in brazil and elsewhere , the imf ’s distorted accounting frameworks ­ – what it does and does not count as expenditures – continues to impede the investments required to modernize public-sector firms , putting a major roadblock in the path to land reform . for example , as the government borrows to buy land , it treats them as debt , but the offsetting transaction over which it sells in land through mortgages effectively goes unrecognized . it is here that germany should take the pause , looking at the record . true , the imf ’s economic framework does not yet bestow on countercyclical fiscal policies on the grounds that the imf remains ambivalent about the standard keynesian prescription of stimulating the economy in a downturn . while germany ’s president does not have to intervene in a country ’s day-to-day management , his voice will undoubtedly become influential .
washington , dc – donald trump has officially been inaugurated for being us president , yet questions about russia ’s handling of the electoral interference will not go away . yet one key question often looms over the fray : why has russian president vladimir putin been doing so ? of course , it is not hard to guess why putin preferred trump to his opponent , former secretary of state hillary clinton . but there is a difference between hopes for an outcome and going to great lengths to be seized and incurring great risks , to help bring it about . in the us view , america ’s intelligence agencies ’ conclusion that , by aiding trump , the kremlin advancing its own “ longstanding ” desire to undermine the us-led liberal democratic order ” is not exactly convincing .
specifically , it advances the government ’s vision of a pro-growth agenda , which enhances the ease with which india does business , while targeting better delivery mechanisms for welfare regimes . moreover , the country is projected to grow at an annual rate of 8-8.5 % . no amount of budget changes could generate such a marked , cost-free acceleration in growth . it is only fair to say that the , typically the us department of aid statistics stole the thunder from this year ’s budget . nonetheless , finance minister arun jaitley ’s budget succeeds on several fronts , not least in his aligning vision and implementation .
japan ’s single-minded focus on economic growth has achieved its goal , but the country has developed only modest military and soft power . in its first decades , communist china constructed its military force , thereby exploiting the soft power of maoist revolutionary doctrine and third global solidarity to cultivate its allies abroad . but , following the depletion of its maoist strategy in the 1970 ’s , chinese leaders turned to market mechanisms to foster economic development . after the failure of its imperialist greater east asia co-prosperity scheme of the 1930s ( which had the soft-power component of anti-european propaganda ) and its defeat in world war ii , japan reversed its strategy , minimized military power , and relied on strategic alliances with the us . but it also followed a conciliatory diplomacy toward britain and the us , spending significant resources to make itself an attractive overseas option .
likewise , carbon-dioxide emissions have fallen dramatically since early this year , and the authorities seem well on the path to hitting the carbon-intensity target established in 2010 . regulatory reform is beginning to mitigate the shadow-banking risks , and even some ghost towns are being revived by market forces . at the upcoming fifth plenum , china ’s leaders must build on this progress , agreeing to keep the reform momentum open . xi ’s anti-corruption campaign has gone the way of removing a retired member of the standing committee of china , china ’s most powerful body . to succeed , the government must , as xi put it , “ gnaw even harshest bones ” – that is , overcome vested interests that resist change .
the targeted killing by the united states by one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . and that shift would occur at a time of heightened challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 that what will weigh on the present for many years to come .
in keeping with the spirit of times , governments introduce business criteria to measure efficiency – and “ success ” – more generally , -- by means of public services . this means , first and foremost , that they have set performance goals . thus , the council of ministers proclaim that the street crime will be halved by next spring , or that the share of each generation going to university universities to rise to 50 % in the next five years . waiting lists for hospital beds will be slashed by one-third within two years . this method of governance makes the idea that at long last we can hold policymakers accountable by determining whether or not the targets were reached .
peru ’s president alejandro toledo invented a new extreme sport , a soccer match in which he is the sole gambler . toledo maintained the presidency planning to begin dismantling the corruption that has consigned fujimori ’s administrations and ended the rule of his crooked intelligence chief , vladimiro montesinos . rather than kicking the ball to win , toledo aims to make his opponent scores . toledo maintained that he would send all dishonest officials to prison – words that captured peruvians ’ imagination , who yearned to see criminal politicians brought to justice . this explains why , with more than half of his term left , the man who led a popular movement to unseat former president alberto fujimori holds a mere 7 % popularity rating today – any peruvian leader ’s lowest ranking since 1980 in which democracy was restored .
conversely , ronald reagan ’s performance in his 1980 ’s is often credited with his victory . in 2004 , soon before the election , osama bin laden released a videotapes that may help president bush defeat senator john kerry . from bin laden ’s perspective , bush ’s policies were of greater utility for his effort to recruit supporters than kerry may have . a mistake in a major presidential debate may turn the domestic tide overnight , as happened with us president gerald ford in his debates with jimmy carter in 1976 . another event that could have reversed the tables would be “ october surprises ” associated with terrorism , which could shift the agenda from the financial crisis back to security , republican leaders in a stronger eye .
so why not elect a man like lugovoi , who truly represents what that elite stands for ? would n’t lugovoi ’s return to politics bring forth an ideal solution to the problem of finding putin ’s heir apparent ? that search , after all , threatens to divide the male elite within the popular elite . but i see a practical turn in all of this , which no one has broached so well . let the us compare two potential presidential candidates , putin in 1999 and lugovoi in 2007 .
their mythical tribe turned out to be great in some mythical past , so why not efforts to recreate it ? such thinking poses a serious threat to the world ’s most vulnerable people . the united nations sustainable development goal ( sdgs ) to eradicate extreme poverty worldwide by 2030 rests wholly on continued economic growth through trade , technological innovation , and international cooperation . the powerful will always manage , but the weak will bear the brunt of the shocks of a kind of nostalgic protectionism that undermine the benefits of globalization . erecting trade barriers , engaging in digitally-oriented mercantilism , and undermining the neoliberal world order in general , will severely hurt the most marginalized poor in africa and other underdeveloped regions , while doing nothing to aid coal miners in west virginia .
without question , the state has become integral to china ’s evolution , not only by investing in areas like infrastructure and technology , but also by serving as the backstop as nascent markets and private-sector institutions developed . moreover , the chinese state has been solving coordination problems that are not readily or adequately handled by decentralized markets – particularly in developing countries , where market institutions and governance capabilities may come at different stages of development . state engagement also is needed to help manage inequality and ensure that growth patterns become inclusive , which markets alone can not count on to make . some argue that the state – and , by extension , the communist party of china ( cpc ) – must retain a prominent role , in order to uphold the social stability needed to sustain economic development . others argue that spurring innovations necessary to reach high-income status requires that the state become less like a market-based participant and more like a refereeing , a regulator , and a arbiter of economic and social priorities .
egypt ’s fiscal deficit , for example , will surpass 11 % of gdp this year . almost all of egypt ’s political actors , as with other arab countries in transition , recognize the need for economic reform . but the country ’s leaders have been stalling on the terms of much-needed international monetary fund credit . but economic urgency does not translate into a policy response that has been painfully slow or non-existent . the government ’s cut in fuel subsidies last year failed to follow additional reforms , when the required tax hike was delayed soon after president mohamed morsi announced it .
our unicef survey of 126 developing countries found that , among the near-one-half that bring down public expenditures , common adjustment measures include public-sector pay or caps , the withdrawal of food subsidies , and the targeting and rationalizing of already meager social-protection systems . these adjustment measures are frequently adopted without a carefully examined social impact . how many children in the developing world will miss out on schooling because teachers are absent because of low wages , or simply because poor children must work to supplement their family income ? how many poor children will suffer will or will die from lack of food and health care ? and yet , for now , this could easily happen .
indeed , germany ’s future could play out in two ways . the first scenario is bleak : germany has failed to integrate refugees socially and economically ; political discontent surges ; and newcomers have become increasingly frustrated with their plight . any steps they take to allude to putin that frustration embolden right-wing populists , and could result in violence from both sides . if , at worst , there were any kind of terrorist attack – especially one that could intercede about refugees – a nationalist-populist reaction would be powerful , potentially weakening the very fabric of german society . the world has a large stake where the event prevails .
successful political transitions are also helping if more and more citizens come to feel that they “ own ” the protests and the resulting transition . in this regard , the fact is that demanding mubarak ’s imminent resignation originated from cairo ’s tahrir square rather than from the obama administration represents a positive development . by contrast , the army ’s decision to allow mubarak loyalists , some of the riding camels or horse , to charge themselves into cairo ’s tahrir square , and to attack thousands of anti-government protesters , has been a classic “ military man ” like cabinet ” move . at this point , a democratic transition will most likely require that the army play a more active role in protecting protesters . what is clear is that “ military as an institution ” interest depends on the army ’s capacity to establish much greater separation from the regime .
at the same time , seemingly sure , they will work in close collaboration with ugandan forces . nevertheless , the scale of america ’s cooperation with the icc has transcended even the constructive role suggested by the obama administration . evidently , american policymakers are becoming increasingly receptive to the international criminal court ’s potential to degird the terms of a new form of global engagement . but does the group of uganda , following so closely on the libya intervention herald a police role for the us whenever the un or the icc , which , lacking its own police force , rely on its members and interstate collaboration , ultimately need it ? given america ’s unwillingness to join the icc ( or to bring its own torturers to justice in the us courts ) , such a role would leave both international and domestic political attacks vulnerable .
so why are n’t americans feeling increased alarms over their country ’s rising income inequality ? part of the reason they fail to do is that most americans fail to recognize what ’s happening . one poll found that 19 % of americans thought that their incomes placed them at the top 1 % of the income distribution – and that 20 % more hope for reaching the top 1 % someday . one poll found that 19 % of americans thought that their incomes placed them at the top 1 % of the income distribution – and that 20 % more hope for achieving the top 1 % someday . deep at the heart of american ideology and culture is a constellation of beliefs and attitudes : belief that the future will be brighter than current ; that what you get with your own hands ; that individuals should rely on themselves , not the state ; that people can crossing oceans and mountains to earn for themselves more ; and that those who succeed over themselves do not through luck and corruption but through preparation and corruption but , through preparation and industry .
stockholm – our current generation has a unique opportunity , and it is the world ’s poorest people that do . that is the kind of course world leaders set when they met at the united nations in new york , on september 25 to adopt the sustainable development goals ( sdgs ) . the sdg 17 goals range from ending poverty to improving health , in order to protect the planet ’s biosphere , and provide energy for all . they emerged from the biggest summit in un history , the “ rio +20 ” conference in 2012 , followed by what is probably the largest consultations the un has ever carried out . if we set our own minds to it , we might be the first in human history to leave our children anything : zero greenhouse-gas emissions , global poverty , and no loss of biodiversity .
victims of online harassment often react with self-censorship , and many , with a sense of security and even self-worth eroded , take for themselves from social media altogether . while women and minorities are particularly likely to fall victim to online harassment , anyone can be targeted . the german blogger richard gutjahr , for example , has become an object of conspiracy theories , and the target of intense harassment , once held on two terrorist attacks in each other ’s weeks , has come in sharp numbers . if the algorithm fails to do the job of silencing less privileged voices , online trolls have often backpedaled on , channeling hateful , and threatening speech at whomomomomever they choose . so the noisiest too often rewards a megaphone , with less polarizing , less privileged voices drowning out , even though they provide the kind of smart , nuanced perspectives that really can enrich public debate .
i single out america not because it is unique in its own neglect , but because it is unique in its capacity to lead . few rich countries do better than america , and i have ever known it is . africans do not vote ; they do not buy us products ; they do not threaten violence . africans barely count on being in american policy , for example . they are simply poor , hungry , and disease-ridden .
this is because krugman refuses to take seriously keynes ’s crucial distinction between risk and insecurity . keynes ’s top contribution to economic theory was to emphasize the “ extreme precariousness ” upon the basis of knowledge upon which our estimates of prospective yield have to be made ” ” ” ” . hence , following his inauguration in 1932 , there can be no escaping from a prolonged and perhaps interminable depression , except through outright state intervention to promote and subsidize new investment ” that is what the obama administration rightly does . on the question of what caused this crash , the debate has deeper even . krugman is hamstrung by what attributes a crash to “ irrationality ” – which , as cochrane points out , is no theory at all .
cape town – today , people are all too often forced to choose between doing what is morally right and doing what is economically beneficial . indeed , their options sometimes seem to be mutually exclusive , making decisions by which to take exceedingly challenging scores . at times , however , moral rectitude and economic interest merge , indicating an opportunity that must not be missed . that is the case – from the perspectives of this archbishop and a former finance minister – with the world ’s response to climate change . the moral imperative is incontrovertible , owing to the consequences of manmade climate change – including extreme weather , sea-level rises , and rising sea levels – being felt most keenly by the global poor , who also benefited the least from the kind of economic activities that cause it .
and on that day , he grimly lamented that his absence looked like part of a show , somehow making us forget that he was no longer felling against us all . hallyday was the child of the generation that watched america ’s gis enter paris , and that is being invented for itself of america ’s ascendance . abiding by each us audience was reported to all : youth spent with a post act like gautier ’s captain fracasse ; the father , a character out of modiano who , between brokering drinking , pawned the gifts given to him by his abandoned son . he was the consummate artist of the french scene , chameleon beamed out on satellite tv , dripping with fake sweat and reality-glitz , an artist who , like the novelist , confessed as a way of lying . and then came the ’60s rocker on the eye of gritty wolf and swindling heekbones hewn by giacometti , catsmometti , rye ’s mood , and melancholy so intensely hopeless that it seems to condemn it to live on the fringes of every excess .
it was , of course , subject to ups and fades , but it was not subject to financial crises of the type that we see periodically today . the keys to this era of growth and happiness were a strong social-security system , and primarily keynesian domestic and foreign economic policies in all of the world ’s big states . above all , every advanced economy pursued policies designed to deliver high wages , thereby guaranteeing high consumption and thus rapid growth . moreover , during the post-wwii decades , capitalism maintained full employment , with unemployment often hovering around 2 % in europe , north america , and japan . job insecurity back then was mostly unknowable , and mass poverty vanished .
but , much like de gaulle ’s declaration , and may ’s slogan , churchill ’s pronouncements employed the language of political ambiguity . in response to the euro crisis , they argued , europe needed more fiscal integration , but without the uk ; there would be no british financial participation in future european rescue operations . yet solidarity ( at least the kind that cost money ) stopped at the english channel . we are interested in and related , but , again , not absorbing the ” . that seems to reflect the stance – expressed by cameron and former australian chancellor of the exchequer george osborne – that helped to set the stage for brexit .
in this crisis , america ’s president should form a united front with human-rights groups that can advise him precisely how to follow , sustain , and support those iranians , who have been or may still be arrested , or worse . natan sharansky has stated that this tactic , the west ’s monitoring and demanding accountability for the treatment of individual internal dissenters , helped to break out of the soviet union . barack obama says that america “ stands with ” those supporting the free assembly . what the west can do is apply pressure on iran – and to other governments in the future – to reassure and account for the protesters ’ safety . that will be welcome news to people living under dictatorial regimes installed and propped up by american men , and opposition leaders and journalists languishing in those countries for having engaged in anything but such protest .
russian membership in the world trade organization has the potential to strengthen the rule of law , fight corruption , and give russia a stake in improved relations with the outside world . there should also be some understanding of what the russian and russians have gone through over the last two decades . closer ties between russia and europe make sense for a similar reason . losing a country and a special place in the world is the type of trauma that could fuel the rise of extreme and potentially violent nationalism . russia should be treated as a major power that implies consultations on major global issues .
but a consensus did emerge in brazil that the center-left party can neither win nor govern with hard-left ideas , and lula ’s presidency failed to challenge that view . whatever the case , for key brazilian leaders , including rousseff , capitalism has become part of the solution , rather than a key one . for brazil , investors are taking whatever kinds of risks , and they are being pursued by the government . the largest are not always those on which the world bank and development agencies have been shifting their focus ; rather , they are the business risks of a company that is failing – or a polity that implodes . the consensus may have reflected the success of lula ’s predecessor , fernando henrique cardoso , of the relative success of privatization and liberal market economies around the world , and brazil ’s middle-class growth .
when things can be made , used , broken/worn out , and recycled closer to home , the need to transport drops dramatically . recycled materials do not need to be delivered to centralized processing centers , and then passed down to factories . products wo n’t need to be made in those factories , and then shipped off to customers or to inventory centers . one big loser in this world will be the freight business ( along with junkyards , logistics companies , and centralized recycling operations ) . to be sure , my reduced costs will hit somebody else with diminishing revenues , and then transmitted to factories .
london – in the 1960 ’s , a green revolution – comprising development of high-yielding crop varieties , expanding irrigation infrastructure , and dividing advanced fertilizers and pesticides to developing-country farmers – bolstered agricultural production globally . but chronic hunger remains pervasive , especially in developing countries , which suffer the most from crop shortages and food-price volatility in the developed world . surmounting these challenges will be no easy feat . by 2050 , the global human population is projected to surpass $ nine billion , and the world ’s population will expect to exceed $ 1.4 trillion . achieving food security means ensuring that all people have consistent , affordable access to the right cooking stoves , despite soil and water constraints , climate change , and the growing prevalence of resource-intensive western-style diets that accompany rising incomes .
turkey , not the european union , currently makes its presence felt around the world . in reality , what turkey needs is europe just as much as europe needs turkey . indeed , for many years erdoğan ’s domestic critics have been denouncing what they describe as the “ putinization ” of the regime . europe is for turkey “ a principle of moderation ” and its enticement to remain a democratic one . but a part of history can change quickly .
in fact , last year ’s worldwide 580,000 cancer deaths exceeded their roughly 430,000 combat deaths , on average in world war i , world war ii , the kosovo war , the vietnam war , and the gulf war . yet government spending on cancer averages around $ 4 billion annually . on the contrary , experience suggests that governments often struggle to reconcile government expenditures with underlying or mounting problems , such as the public-health threat , until they hit a crisis point . that is just over 0.5 % of the $ 718 billion annual us military budget . indeed , more people have been killed of cervical cancer in the us last year than at war with the us .
i had hoped that the us would have the nerve to overcome our perceived humiliation and start looking deep into our national psyche , has challenged the big question , “ why did 15 of us young men attack america in so brutal a manner ? ” a journalist visiting saudi arabia ’s united kingdom recently asked me why five out of six students he interviewed at the university of saud still believe that al qaida was not responsible for their attacks on the world trade center and that of the pentagon in america last year ? dealing with this question is becoming increasingly frustrating to me , because i ran out of plausible explanations . i used to believe that the denial of saudi complicity in the attacks reflected our hardship with what happened on that dark day . so far , we are no closer than we were in the aftermath of the attacks to answering this question , because we can not even find a nerve to ask .
moreover , income inequality has widened , with a global phenomenon of increasing concentrations of wealth at a very pronounced point in many arab countries . that is why the knee-jerk , simplistic “ washington consensus ” ” ” ” ” prescription of more liberalization and privatization is unsuitable for the arab world back in 2012 . there is a clear political imperative for a growth strategy in which inclusion ends at the top , not an afterthought . top incomes in these countries have come largely from political patronage , rather than from innovation and hard work . while tunisia has been an extreme case of the regime furthering the economic interests of a small clique of insiders , the pattern has been widespread .
germany ’s economy relies heavily on exports , which means acutely vulnerable to trade barriers and punitive tariffs imposed by major trade partners . trump ’s protectionist policies thus challenge the entire german economic model as it has existed since the 1950s . but that , too , is hardly the case . indeed , trump ’s recent moves concern not just trade , but about america ’s departure from the pax americana itself . few countries are more connected to the post-war us order than germany , which , like japan , owes its post-1945 economic resurgence to the rules-based trading system .
during macron ’s first five-year term , therefore , he should focus on boosting france ’s gdp growth to an average of less than 2 % annually and reduce the unemployment rate to below 6 % . the simplest way to accomplish both goals would be to focus on where france is underperforming relative to other eu countries . part of the unemployment challenge is tied to hidden costs . france has some of the eu ’s highest labor costs for hourly workers , and the nato-led result is tepid hiring . with inequality also mounting , many french are rightly angry that labor is taxed much more than capital gains .
in early december , putin signed a federal budget for 2015 that foresaw 2 % annual gdp growth and a budget deficit amounting to 0.5 % of gdp . but collapsing oil prices , combined with the tough economic sanctions imposed by america and europe , meant that the government predicted a 4 % - of-gdp shortfall in gdp and a budget deficit of 3.5 % of gdp , and that the following budget cuts were costing 1 % of gdp every year . based on these figures , he predicts that , by the end of this year , russia will spend 70 % of the reserve fund accrued over the past decade , or so , when oil prices were high . as long as low oil prices persist and western economic sanctions remain in place , russia will run out of cash in late 2016 . nonetheless , putin ’s approval rating remains at around 80 % .
given that libra takes the form of private money tied to a basket of stable major currencies , how would that work in practice ? if argentina ’s people could switch from pesos to a basket of stability-oriented currencies with one side of their smartphones , does not then pour in that safe asset at the first hint of problems in the domestic economy ? a typical facebook executive analysis does not help us answer that question , because in perfect markets such flows would be self-correcting . but , of course , libra is sold as much more than that . as one facebook executive puts it , “ we want to send the money as easily as we send the text message . ”
at the same time , the recently rising euro has helped keep european long-term interest rates low – a key determinant of economic activity — as inflationary expectations have deteriorated in the euro-zone region , too . the yields on ten-year german bonds that might have been expected to go higher because of the deterioration in inflationary expectations during this period has barely been shifted . should bush , bernanke , or new us treasury secretary henry paulson cause investors to lose faith in america ’s financial assets at some point over time , a rise in euros will help shield european interest rates from its effects . looking ahead , this is a big plus for sustaining us economic recovery . during april , the upward trend in inflationary expectations and the euro ’s appreciation occurred more or less concurrently .
of the six large eu member states , only france has truly well-defined a centralized political system . when stressed , the big surface bifurcates with big chunks , but then the disintegration proceeds into smaller , lesser fragments . the united kingdom looks older and more stable , but scotland today is governed by a political party that wishes to rerepeal the union ’s 1707 act , with its future to be determined by the 2014 scottish referendum . this political entity is the precise counterpart of the political world to the hitherto well-known physical phenomenon of splintering or fissuring . italy and germany were nineteenth-century amalgamations of a colorful variety of small and medium-size political units . of the six biggest eu member states , only france has a truly well-defined centralized political system .
we believe in banknotes , because we collectively decide to trust the government when it says that $ 100 will be , rather than $ 10 or $ 50 . once that faith breaks up , the bad things will happen . just as we obey our leaders ’ orders to fight and die because we trusts their judgment , we entrust our careers and our money to those running citigroup and goldman sachs and other such banks , because we believe that their leaders will be fair to their employees and clients , and contrast their business practices . money , therefore , is a matter of trust , without which no society can function . nor is we growing up wishing to work for croatia and sideways .
like francis and sanders , gorbachev was an unlikely reformer . despite rose to power with the kgb ’s backing , he did not surrender his thought processes to that machine in the way president vladimir putin clearly possessed us . he created an environment in which demands for radical change led to compromise , not rage , in sharp contrast to , say , the violent breakup of yugoslavia . likewise , far from fitting the democratic machine ’s mold , sanders is working to push the party back “ to the social democratic left , ” where he belongs to ” ” . ultimately , to be sure , the soviet union ’s ossified structure could not have saved ; but , thanks largely to gorbachev ’s fundamental decency , the ussr ’s demise in 1991 was rather peaceful .
that leaves developing countries facing a stark choice : will they be better off accepting the crumbs they offer to them ? those in the developing world who think that a history of bargaining in bad faith has a powerful case has arrived . indeed , america ’s agricultural subsidies are doing just that . unsurprisingly , rich countries ’ negotiators are shedding big numbers , when describing the gains from an even imperfect agreement . whatever economics , taking this route may be tougher today than ever before : with so many developing countries becoming vibrant democracies , electorates may be punishing governments that embrace what is commonly viewed as another unfair trade agreement .
princeton – recently , physicists at the big hadron collider ( lhc ) – the world ’s fastest-growing particle accelerator , located near geneva at the european organization for nuclear research ( cern ) – announced that the celebrated discovery in 2012 of the higgs boson was actually the higgs boson . four years ago , the doomsayers predict that the lhc would develop the microscopic black holes that could swallow the earth in a matter of several months . the latter-day nostrum provoked widespread fear , not to mention lawsuits , of high-energy particle experiments . these prophets were , of course , neither the first nor the final of their respective species . now , the standard model of particle physics is complete , save one important respect : black holes .
in fact , monetary policy has long played an important role in brazilian politics . during the democratization process of the 1980s and 1990s , successive governments scrambled to tame hyperinflation , which reached 2,477 % in 1993 . the introduction of the “ true plan , ” launched in 1994 , drove to suppress annual price growth to an acceptable ” 22 % by the subsequent year . riding on the agenda to succeed him , his architect , fernando henrique cardoso , a former economy minister was doubly elected president ( in 1994 and 1998 ) underscoring voter concern about price stability . today , as central bankers in developed countries fret about the threat of deflation , brazilian policymakers are once again being forced to respond to widespread fears of slowing growth and a return to high inflation .
not surprisingly , the atmosphere at this year ’s world economic forum was bleak . against the backdrop of the sub-prime crisis , calamities at many financial institutions , and the weakening of the stock market , these “ masters of the universe ” seemed less omniscient than they did a short time ago . and it was not just bankers who swept in davos doghouse earlier this year , but also their own regulators , from central bankers . those who think that globalization , technology , and market economies will sort out the world ’s problems seemed thoroughly subdued . most chastened in all , i believe , are central bankers .
the european central bank has provided massive amounts of emergency loans to the banks that they use to purchase an even bigger amount of government debt . this holds down interest rates on the record of short-term debt , but creates even larger potential losses in the event of a potential insolvency . diamond has ultimately discovered that , too , policymakers trump ’s bankers – at least in the uk . banks and policy are deeply intertwined throughout all of the advanced economies . now , in the wake of the eurozone periphery ’s profound sovereign-debt crisis , government defaults threaten to take big banks off .
even so , brazil has a long way to go . for starters , anemic investment in traditional infrastructure since the 1980 ’s has become an increasingly heavy boon for tfp , contributing to waste and inefficiency in its existing manufacturing systems . this could be addressed by fine-tuning labor ’s distribution of infrastructure investment and management between the public and private sector with the goal of lump in the latter . yet , despite its low average gdp growth rate , income in the bottom quintile grew at an average annual rate of more than 6 % in the 2000 ’s , owing largely to cost-effective socioeconomic policies . provided that the government continues to pursue a comprehensive poverty-reduction strategy – including improved health-care access , financial services , and education – brazil ’s overall productivity should improve in the years ahead .
iran , russia , syria , ukraine , and a handful of african countries all comprise the rest . in the period following the oil-price shocks of the 1970s until the beginning of the 1980s , nearly two-thirds of countries recorded an inflation rate above 10 % . according to the latest data , which runs through july or august for most countries , there are “ only ” 14 case studies of high inflation ( the red line in the figure ) . venezuela ( which has not published its official inflation statistics earlier this year ) and argentina ( which , over a few years , has not published its reliable inflation data figure ) figure prominently in this group . the countries ’ share of outright deflation in consumer prices ( the underfront ) is higher in 2015 than it was when countries experiencing double-digit inflation ( 7 % of the level ) .
there is , of course , an alternative to higher education . on the european continent , this has been happening just since the fall of the 1930s . overcrowded classes in often inadequate physical surroundings , without the needed hardware , have led ever longer to study rates , worsening the quality of degrees , and vastly unhappiness with both students and professors . there is of course an alternative for higher education . in the absence of sufficient financing , one can simply let universities get worse .
the two million kosovars have suffered since milosevic ’s rule in each aspect of their lives , from basic safety to schooling . for years , they have attempted to express their grievances through peaceful means . the kosova need to free themselves from milosevic ’s grip has been so visible throughout the decade . only war ’s bloodshed , sad to say , can seal such a diplomatic bargain . as a political activist in the closing days of yugoslavia , i tried to build upon the philosophy of non-violence , leading demonstrations and other forms of peaceful dissent .
the phenomenon took many forms , including the muslim brotherhood , established in 1928 . a half-century later , the simultaneous revolts in the arab world have been the product of neither policy tendencies , instead reflecting a widespread popular rejection of dysfunctional and corrupt authoritarian governments . yet , with syria immersed in a brutal civil war that claimed more than 130,000 lives already , libya on the verge of collapse , and egypt ’s return to power to the military and proscribing the muslim brotherhood , tunisia has been its only success . at around the same time , military-backed efforts along secular lines mirrored egyptian president gamal abdel nasser ’s pan-arabism and the syrian baath party , resulting in the establishment of the united arab republic , a union between egypt and syria that lasted from 1958 until 1961 until 1961 . tunisia adopted its new constitution on january 27 thus clearing the way for what will become the more secular , fairest elections in any of the region ’s country .
berlin – the way we consume in the industrialized world is unhealthy , unjust , and unsustainable . worldwide , 300 million tons of meat is produced every year , and the united nations food and agriculture organization estimates that the annual total will rise to 455 million tons by 2050 if demand continues to grow at its current pace . such huge amounts of meat can be produced only on an industrial scale and at high levels of society and ecological costs . and now our industrial model for meat production is exporting to the global south – particularly india and china , where meat consumption is rising among these countries ’ emerging middle class . far too much of the meat that we consume comes from manufactured goods under questionable ecological , ethical , and societal boundaries .
cambridge – for some time now , the four horsemen of america ’s macroeconomic policymaking has been taxation , regulation , business , and infrastructure . while i used to think the second area in less detail , evidence suggests that regulation is , at best , only a minor contributor to growth . the third area is extremely important , which makes today ’s trade tensions so worrying . a fourth area exists only in rhetoric : an infrastructure program that is currently out of sync with underlying macroeconomic policy repertoire . in studying the first in detailed detail , i found tax cuts to be a positive contributor to economic growth .
at that point , china will confront the same productivity challenges confronting america and others . chinese policymakers ’ new focus on innovation-led growth seems to recognize this risk . as gordon notes , there have been long-standing productivity dividends associated with urbanization , a trend that could continue for at least another decade in china . but there will come a time when this tailwind subsides , and china begins to converge on the advanced economies ’ so-called “ frontier ” . without powerful innovations , persistent productivity growth will become an uphill battle .
and the cofina deal is itself part of a larger debt-restructuring effort , rooted in an unrealistic assessment by the commonwealth ’s economic conditions . the sad opportunities for the right puerto rico fiscal vessel has not been seized . on the contrary , the oversight board recently certified a new fiscal plan , and an agreement with bond holders issued by puerto rico ’s resurgent interest-rate fund ( cofina ) , which could put the island in a debt straitjacket indefinitely . at $ 17.8 trillion , the stockpiles of cofina bonds ( backed by future sales-tax revenue ) account for more than one-third of total debt in the new fiscal blueprint . but the scheme itself projected to de-emphasize economic activity even further , and failed to establish an adequate basis for calculating how much debt restructuring puerto rico will need .
ten years on , what impact have the principles had on the lives of displaced people ? we have raised awareness of the plight of the displaced , brought about by changes in government policies and raised billions of dollars in response to their basic needs . humanitarian efforts continue to be strengthened , including through the new fast financing mechanism , the united nations central emergency response fund . this , in turn , has helped to save countless lives . the achievements here are notable , if not inadequate .
“ the man who will die wealthy , ” he is often quoted as saying , “ dies disgraced . ” wearing a watch that costs 200 times as much as one who does a better job in keeping time says otherwise , even after he wears a watch that people do not govern a relatively poor country . in essence , such a person is say ; “ i am either extraordinarily ignorant or merely plain selfish . ” andrew carnegie , the richest man of veblen ’s era , prided himself on his moral judgment . we can adapt that judgment to someone or woman who wear a $ 30,000 watch , or buy a similar luxury , like a $ 12,000 handbag .
in this monumental work , totaling roughly 1,900 pages , parfit challenges the ideas – almost universally expected by economists and many of the philosophers since david hume onward – that the role of reason tells us how to get what we want but not to tell us what to want . on the contrary , parfit argued , desires can be irrational or counter-intuitive . he shows that both “ the total ” and “ the average ” responses have paradoxical or counter-intuitive consequences . but then again , so does each other ’s response , which has been proposed as parfit revived trouble , and other philosophers started to offer solutions for themselves . if the reasons and persons might easily have been three separate books , on what matters really are : the first two volumes reported in 2011 , while the other third , in the press when parfit died , just emerged .
furthermore , we must lower the inequity of mental health , a frequently ignored issue . that is often the problem in lower-income communities , where populations may be at more risk of pathology and often face the highest constraints of looking for care , partly owing to a lack of specialized resources available in wealthier areas . seeking mental-health care should be as routine and unremarkable as seeking treatment for high blood pressure , from diabetes , or from heart situations . there are some innovative approaches to addressing this problem , such as zimbabwe ’s comity bench , and i look forward to learn more about that project , from one of its representatives at davos . by acknowledging mental health and wellness issues at work , we can make the difference in our homes , schools , and communities the way we do .
the experts argue that the probabilities of a terrorist attack as a result of a dubai takeover are small . should the damage inflicted on a terrorist attack also be small . yet the damage inflicted on an attack might be tremendous , because ports are thought to be one of the few ways that terrorists might smuggle nuclear weapons into america . for it is because americans can not afford even a minutest of the chance with their havens , the consequences of error are too staggering to contemplate . the american public understands this , even though their us president does not .
but the four political developments that have reshaped the international security agenda are likely to transform chicago into a high-profile summit in its own right . first , revolutions in the arab world , and nato ’s military interventions in libya , have refocused the alliance ’s attention on the middle east and north africa . second , the international financial crisis will have immense implications for nato ’s defense budgets . third , in a speech last june , outgoing us defense secretary robert gates revived the debate on transatlantic burden-sharing and solidarity within the alliance . finally , the first nato summit to take place in the united states in 13 years is taking place not only in an election year , but also in president barack obama ’s hometown .
can we really count on those farmers , many of them desperately poor , to assume a leadership role in addressing twin challenges to food security and ecological sustainability ? for one thing , we believe that the answer to both questions lies in a resounding " yes . " even so , smallholders simply can not ignore when it comes to climate-change solutions : an expanded small farms account for 60 % of global agriculture production and provide up to 80 % of their food supplies in developing countries . together , they manage vast areas of our planet , covering 80 % of our farmland in sub-saharan africa and asia . will they really produce more food , while protecting the natural environment ?
one such reform would be to expand the approach taken to foreign investors . during the past decade , it has been barred from foreigners to make investments in more than 40 industries designated a critical component of homeland security ” by the us government . this ban , while beneficial to industry insiders , blunted russia ’s access to financial markets , and , more critical , long-lasting gdp growth follows . lifting such restrictions would not only give the economy an immediate boost , but also raise long-term gdp growth . the financial sanctions that followed russia ’s forced “ reunification with crimea ” in may 2014 intensified russia ’s isolation further , as have the country ’s own moves to retaliate : a welter of sweeping trade restrictions , including outright prohibitions of food imports from the european union and us .
during negotiations with eu leaders ahead of the may referendum , british prime minister david cameron obtained an opt-out clause by deciding to move toward ever-closer union . the relationship between cee countries and the uk has always been rather fraying . in the 1990s , the uk was a proponent of eu membership for the group of cee countries at a time when leaders in france and germany remained deeply hesitant about eu enlargement . but the uk ’s support had a catch : british leaders , reluctant to embrace the eu ’s long-stated goal of achieving an “ ever-closer union ” – which implies political unification and shared national and federal sovereignty – made no secret of its desire to use the widening of eu membership to prevent deepening european integration . should it prevail in the brexit referendum and persuade voters to remain , that sends a dangerous signal to illiberal politicians in eastern europe .
economists need to learn from engineering students , because it will be engineers who build the future workforce . entrepreneurship majors should study economic and political history to avoid becoming blind to determinists . and law students should focus on the intersection of big data and human rights in order to gain the insight needed to defend individuals from the forces that might seek to turn individuals into disposable also . and workers of the future will require training in ethics , helping them to navigate a world in which the value of human beings can no longer be taken for granted . educators preparing students for this future will have to start now .
in effect , the system has become largely self-regulating . in my experience , 99 % of all censorship occurs with both writers and producers themselves . a top-down hierarchy is autocratic and arbitrary ; a lower level has little collaborative input and no appeal rights . sporadic grievances and warnings from above allow them to develop an intuitive sense of limits to acceptable content , thereby creating evidence that is free from offending materials from the start . severe breaches can result in reprimands or dismissals .
tokyo – japanese prime minister shinzo abe ’s decision to broaden the diet ’s current session for 95 days , until september , making his longest continuous session in japan ’s parliament ’s postwar history . abe ’s actions in the diet are coming on the heels of his performance at the recent g7 summit in germany , where he has broken with the japanese tradition . but the summit showed that japan no longer intends to stand on the diplomatic sidelines . for the last 39 years , japanese representatives to the g-7 have focused on economic discussions at such meetings , content to remain largely silent as industrialized world ’s other leaders surveyed the planet ’s political hot spots and advocated action , or , more often , inaction . the reason is obvious : abe is determined to pass a set of national-security bills allowing a reinterpretation of japan ’s ’s constitution , which empowers the country to play a larger role not only in enhancing its own security , but also in a advancing world peace .
to underline this , german chancellor ’s first foreign-policy activity , after returning from his summer ’s vacillation , in early september , to the ailing boris yeltsin , with whom kohl had friendly relations . in february 1996 , kohl urged nato to include enlargement to nato , until the russian and us presidential elections passed . he instructed ministers not to discuss the matter publicly , suggesting that talks should not be left in the hands of nato machinery alone . in germany ’s parliament , boris yeltsin announced that yeltsin , after his operation , “ renew the critical dialogue and addressed specific issues more vigorously , such as nato enlargement … and i was able to reach an agreement with president bill clinton , president chirac , and prime minister tony blair that we would now refrain from dealing with an important matter of organization enlargement at certain frameworks in order to feel that moscow is creating a fiat aci . ” that visit yielded yet another appeal not to rushing nato enlargement .
the result is a litany of “ post-utopian ” values that incorporate a stronger emphasis on individual liberty and individual responsibility . in this world , with no utopia , individual liberty is the supreme value . but , as with any change of such a magnitude , holdouts are starting to emerge . the result is a litany of “ post-utopian ” values that comprise a stronger emphasis on individual liberty and individual responsibility . only this , fogel believes , can explain recent longevity trends , body size , the durability of vital organs , and the impact of chronic diseases .
london – the gravity of the eurozone crisis has finally sunk in . the stakes could not be higher , either . for its part , eurozone leaders must now aim to preserve not only the single currency , but also the gains from european financial integration . for their part , governments and international financial institutions have scrambled to put together a solution within narrowly tight political and economic constraints . so far , many questions have been answered on design ; implementation will be at least as challenging .
targeted killing by the united states by one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of heightened challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . washington , dc , while much of the developed world rightly worries about the myriad privacy outrages at the great-power hands of big tech and demanding policy — and securing for individuals with a vis-à-vis the right to be forgotten , ” ” ” ” ” many around the world presents a very different question : what about the right to be seen ?
drug-related violence has consumed untold numbers of victims in afghanistan , burma , colombia , the us , and mexico . the swiss federal office of public health has also overseen a experiment in prescribing heroin to people living with opiate dependence on a substantial period . the swiss will examine their government ’s drug policies with a pragmatic view . healthcare professionals took the lead during the us-led campaign to press the government – through the military-backed mechanisms of outright democracy – to shift its focus away from arresting and punishing drug users toward public-health policies , which are based on scientific evidence of what works . the swiss have implemented methadone programs and , to prevent the spread of hiv , have created needle exchanges , including in prisons , establishing safe injection rooms on a massive scale .
washington , dc – the impact that groundbreaking technological advances like artificial intelligence ( ai ) will have on the functioning of our economies and labor markets has long been a hot topic . one relatively well-known example of the digital revolution ’s impact on markets ’ workings is the ability to earn vast returns in high-speed trading by establishing themselves as an micro second “ lies ahead . ” another is the price discrimination capacity made by new electronic market makers like uber , who are thereby fitting every penny of the ancient “ consumer surplus ” of microeconomic theory . but jerry kaplan ’s recent book human need not apply : a guide to wealth and work in an age of artificial intelligence impressed me with the true magnitude of socioeconomic stakes . soon a new kind of augmented uber could emerge , integrating the car , bus , boat , airplane travel , and hotel rooms into a single super-educated group .
to that end , finding ways to identify and maximize complementarity is vitally important . some 2.1 billion people worldwide lack access to safe , readily available water domestically , and more than twice that number – a whopping $ 4.5 billion , inadequate monitoring of sanitation , severely undermining health-care outcomes , and fueling river pollution . with an increasing share of the world ’s population – including many of them hindu people – feeling the effects of environmental degradation and climate-change firsthand , finding solutions that simultaneously advance environmental safety , water provision , and health could not be more important . global health and conservation actors must work more closely to identify these solutions – and persuade policymakers to pursue them . in a scarce resource world , policymakers must prioritize their investments , including by differentiating much-needed from the desirable world .
this is an unwelcome development to software providers , whose business model relies on licensing and annual maintenance fees , not power usage . indeed , large corporations in nearly every field are vulnerable as startups become better equipped , more competitive , and competent , like larger firms , to reach customers and users everywhere . this is an unwelcome development to software providers , whose corporate model relies on licensing and annual maintenance fees , not electric usage . businesses across every sector now need to invest in understanding the new technology , so that they stand ready to seize opportunities or mount an efficient defense quickly . moreover , disruptive technologies will generate a shift in value among the economic sector , as occurred when cable tv overtook radio , or , more recently , as online media acquired predominance over print publications .
by 2013 , the share had dropping to 13.5 % . though the developing world had 1.7 billion more people than it did in 1991 , 209 million fewer were laid off . over the last 22 years , the world ’s 193 governments will be moving together to establish new global goals that will be met by 2030 . the task amounts to this generation ’s greatest opportunity to translate high-aspirations into concrete goals . over the next year , the world ’s 193 governments will come together to establish new global goals that will be met by 2030 .
25 people were killed , and many more wounded in what is remembered as the peterloo massacre . given its recent memory of the violent french revolution , the british elite was reluctantly agreeing to democratizing reform . ultimately , the reform act of 1832 abolished the rotten boroughs and extended the franchise to the new middle-class ( the working class and women would need to wait ) . the united states , too , went as far as the robin hood industrialization period in the 1870 ’s and 1880 ’s . the greed and corruption of that era was satirized in 1873 by mark twain and charles dudley warner in their book the gilded age : a tale of today .
but , thanks to farage , as well as portugal , who took over the governing conservative party – an economic self-harm act that clearly runs counter to the national interest – is portrayed as the apotheosis of british patriotism . narrow-minded nationalism is not simply a british illness : a large part of the public sees globalization as leaderless , lacking in the human face , and akin to the uncontrollable runaway trains . what makes things all the worse in britain , though , accounts for a number of gross errors of political judgment during and after the 2016 brexit referendum campaign . while the defeat remains side waged an economic campaign centered on fears of job losses from exiting the eu , the victorious leave party has waged a culture of culture by exaggerating regard to immigration fears and asserting the need for patriotic britons to “ take back control ” . moderate leaders everywhere must now respond not just to the economic discontent of the millions who lose themselves , but also to cultural pessimism and dismissal of politicians as being “ in it simply ” for themselves , which succor toward populist nationalism promoted by trump cheerleader stephen bannon and his ilk .
ande proposed creating a new court by amending the constitution . this was successful , owing to strong public support to the fight against corruption . every robust and entrepreneurial association must decide on the best strategies and tactics to continue their countries . the new court has been empowered to reconcile or revoke laws containing conflicts and duplications . a survey of existing laws and regulations found that many are contradictory and overlapping .
in the evicting that regime , we believed that this form of absolutism was ending . instead , those who had benefited from regime = s corruptions insisted that their rights to the assets they stolen were blatantly imviolate . how did ukraine achieve this type of cynicism ? one year ago , everybody gathered in kyiv ’s streets knew what we stood up against : a corrupt government that struggled to command life and labour , and dispose of state assets at its will . to the extent that formal legal rights existed , no court could be relied on to enforce those rights when our rulers saw their own interests as challenged .
for atole children , the risk of stunting fell by more than one-half . one community was provided with continuous access to a micronutrient and protein subsidy called atole . they stayed in school longer , learned more , scored higher rates of cognitive studies in adulthood , and were more commonly employed in higher-education , skilled jobs . another community nearby had the same programs , except that the micronutrient mid was provided without protein . moreover , health workers visited mothers during pregnancy and granted them free medical services .
from a daily one , the coalition was riven by feuds . in effect , ministers were acting like adversaries rather than partners . instead of blaming iliescu for the shambles in which he left the country , the members of the coalition blamed each other . such squabbling appears to be a postcommunist malady . poland , hungary , even russia : in all three , infighting among reformers has enabled the communists to reclaim power .
though the us economy was at or near full employment , they rebelled against the status quo in the name of the dubious utopias inspired by fidel castro ’s cuba and mao ’s china . they were joined by well-organized trade unions that helped the movement achieve crucial mass , at least temporarily . whereas the british resorted to the ballot box , the french enacted a mix of barricades , marches , and stone throwing . the difference between then and now is that those taking to the streets to protest against macron ’s proposed fuel-tax increases is animated not by utopia but by desperation . in this sense , the “ yellow vest ” uprising is not unlike the french brexit , in which it amounts to a shooting oneself in the foot .
he is concerned about early human-rights violations , particularly of women ’s rights , about which she fears will multiply . she remembers everything and regrets anything , either . she feels that in acting as she has been faithful to its most cherished values and beliefs . and she has no real doubt that , in responding to the arab league ’s entreaty to intervene , she avoided a replay of srebrenica in north africa . what strikes me most is that she sees , even then , the beginnings of tribal conflicts and the coming contest among islamists to outdo one another in fundamentalist purity .
over the past six months , the us has abandoned its four-decade-old policy of engagement with china , embracing a containment strategy instead . facing escalating geopolitical competition with the us , china is scrambling to win friends in the region . as the largest trading partner of multiple asian countries , china will offer attractive trade terms to its neighbors , much as it has done with singapore . though china ’s charm offensive is extremely recent , its contours are already apparent . as the most prominent feature , it is precisely trade .
london – shorting ” is a tactic well known among the finance cognoscenti . this means betting against an asset with borrowed money in anticipation of making profits when its value rises . london – shorting ” – is a tactic well known among the finance cognoscenti . a speculator can “ short ” a government by purchasing its debt at its current price , in the hope of selling it later at below-market prices and pocketing the difference . i borrow , at face value , to € 10 million of the greek government ’s 2016 bond , which is then trading at € 0.91 , from goldman sachs over the last six months .
jordan ’s heterogeneous tribal composition mirrored those of newly established web sites , some generated with tacit support – and even funding – from the security agencies or other official or political groups . moreover , during this time , many people initiated news web sites exclusively for financial gain . through the use of implicit authority of news media , they published any potentially damaging rumor about individuals or groups with means and influence , then offering to dispose of the story in exchange for a paid advertisement or outright monetary payoff . in responding to such extortionary practices , king abdullah ii decried the “ character assassination ” of online news media and demanded that the government establish this unruly new industry ’s regulatory framework . indeed , it was the lack of restriction that allowed dubious journalistic practices to flourish .
predictably , president bush has re-stated his determination to wage war on terrorism . other leaders have declared that the un should not drop out of its mission . the poison of terrorism ever further ripped into the un ’s humanitarian work with the tragic bombing of its iraqi mission . dozens of innocent people were killed , including one of the most peacemakers in the world , sergio vieira de mello . yet the bombing raises political questions that demand answers .
but they are truly illegal occupiers , as russia ’s decision to cede russian passports to these regions ’ residents attests . now russia is threatening to recognize the independence of abkhazia and south ossetia , should the west acknowledge the serbian province of kosovo as an independent nation . to enhance russia ’s political clout over georgian separatist regions , gazprom , with no compunction about asking for permission from georgian its democratically elected leaders , has begun expanding the gas pipeline connecting russia and south ossetia directly . although there has been no interruptions of gas deliveries from tbilisi to south ossetia , that step is required for the kremlin to ensure even greater integration of this breakaway region into russia ’s economic system . to the extent that the vast majority of the inhabitants of abkhazia and south ossetia have already provided russian citizenship , recognition of those two regions ’ sovereignty would become totally fictitious , and , indeed , interim measures on the path toward their complete annexation of russia .
back then , german bankers and bosses were deluded into thinking that they might dominate their country ’s vulgar new chancellor . and they were convinced that , despite hitler ’s oddest behavior and appearances , he remains the best defense against communism . the sad reality is that many of today ’s elites seem to have learned nothing from history and think and act as if interests and values were totally disconnected from one another in the real world . thus , long as trump remains good on business , he appears concerned that he is the single greatest threat to america ’s soul and values and that of its image and interests abroad . sure enough , they say , trump may be going some way toward dealing with the chinese on trade , but at least he was asking them the right set of questions .
even more worryingly , this would open the door to provisions outlawing the benign , low-risk data-mining that drives online advertising . as a result , the eu ’s privacy crackdown threatens to undermine all . online advertising enables eu citizens to access the information , education materials , commerce channels , and entertainment sites , all of which are not directly paid for , and the amounts spent elsewhere in europe grow rapidly . as a result , online advertising allows eu citizens to access the information , education material , commerce channels , and entertainment sites without paying a direct price ; and as the amounts spent in europe grow rapidly . not only will it create an administrative boon through extra costs and bureaucratic hassles ; it also raises the real possibility that the new rules will undermine the business model of many european countries .
when programs are developed in conjunction with rigorous research , the effect can be dramatic . for example , a joint soas-oxford study on menstruation in uganda found that adolescent girls often miss school on the grounds that they lack access to clean sanitary products . today , bloody good period donates sanitary products – including pads and tampons , as well as diapers and toiletries – to more than a dozen uk resource centers for asylum-seekers every month . but , when reusable sanitary pads and education about menstruation was provided to girls in southern schools , attendance rose at an average rate of 17 % . but , when erasing sanitary pads and educating education about menstruation , attendance rose at an average rate of 17 % .
morsi ’s “ constitutional declaration ” constituted a decisive – however undemocratic , polarizing , and , therefore , politically expensive – step to breaking the impasse . it had already backed down twice : once in july 2012 , when he abandoned his effort , under pressure from the supreme council of armed forces , to reinstate an elected parliament ; and once in a effort to remove a public prosecutor by making him egypt ’s ambassador to the holy see . yet , for many revolutionaries , other ways to sack a tainted prosecutor and cleanse the judiciary . for morsi , the dilemma was that the constitutional court could strike down a law , rendering the effort meaningless . for example , a new judicial order regulating the judiciary was a revolution ’s demand since its early weeks .
the trump administration has also unveiled a new , more aggressive nuclear policy . its nuclear posture review proposes the use of nuclear strikes in response to non-nuclear threats , and deploying new “ low-yield ” ” nuclear devices to supply the submarine equivalent of those that destroyed hiroshima and nagasaki in 1945 . in foreign policy , us secretary of state rex tillerson endorsed the revival of america ’s monroe doctrine , the nineteenth-century ’s aspiration to american primacy in the western hemisphere that aimed to uphold european competitors in central and south america in order to curb china ’s rising influence . tillerson ’s nostalgia for 1823 was not the shared south of the borders , where , as one mexican commentator put it , the monroe doctrine served to justify gringo interventions , ” ” ” ” ” ” and where china ’s increasing engagement is perceived as a counterweight to the us . moreover , it amounts to betraying america ’s determination to disavow a rules-based monetary system that discourages competitive currency devaluation .
otherwise , such institutions will remain ineffective in confronting collective problems related to macroeconomic-policy spillovers and providing insurance against crises . policymakers in both advanced and emerging countries alike should focus on underlying failures that are destabilizing their economies and impeding growth , rather than trying to cure symptoms by manipulating monetary policy or capital controls . unless they are backed by strong institutional structures at every level , such action will prove futile in managing capital flows . likewise , in other emerging markets , a key challenge is ensuring that all macroeconomic and structural policies pursue shared goals . at the same time , the governance structure of multilateral institutions like the international monetary fund must be reformed to nurture their legitimacy in emerging markets .
though the challenges facing the middle class are well documented , america ’s leaders have mostly failed to recognize fully the struggles of middle-class households , much less implement efficient countermeasures . the economic challenges facing the developed-country middle classes are largely the result of two factors : the rapid loss of white – and blue-collar jobs toward automation ; the shift of middle - and lower-value-added employment toward countries with lower labor costs . the latter pattern depressed incomes and wage growth not only in the tradable sector , but also in the non-tradable service sector , owing to the spillover of displaced labor . the latter pattern depressed incomes and wage growth not only in the tradable sector , but also in the non-tradable service sector , owing to the spillover of displaced labor . the result has been outsize labor conditions in the middle – and lower-middle-income ranges , not dissimilar to excess labor in early-stage developing countries , where it depresses income growth ( for a period ) even as the economy expands .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of heightened challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . zurich – finland ’s central bank governor , olli rehn , echoed his call for the european central bank to conduct a long-overdue review of its policy framework . the upcoming leadership change at an institution – with christine lagarde , the international monetary fund ’s managing director since 2011 likely succeeded mario draghi as acting president – offers an important opportunity to heed that call .
for decades , europe constituted the world ’s most prosperous , stable , and predictable region , an area where history seemed to have all but an end . such scenarios were unimaginable , until very recently . yet dramatic change has only come in europe . one factor is the willingness and capacity displayed by vladimir putin ’s russia to use military force , economic coercion , and cyber manipulation to advance his agenda . its goal of making the continent peaceful , whole , and free has largely been realized .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . iran and the us , after all , have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . batang toru is just one of many serious three planned infrastructure projects worldwide that , despite posing severe environmental risks , is officially perceived as environmentally sound . for example , construction is almost complete on a railway line through kenya ’s renowned nairobi national park , despite public outrage over an incomplete and inept environmental impact assessment .
but , over time , central banks ’ capacity to influence the real economy has declined . for the ecb , this generates a particularly severe challenge . after all , unlike other central banks , it must account for the preferences of 19 sovereigns , with little or no structural or fiscal-policy coordination . in many ways , such measures succeeded : monetary expansion has played a major role in pulling the economy back from the brink . today , and for the foreseeable future , domestic inflation increasingly affects global rather than local , trends , and financial ( in ) stability and fiscal policies are far more influential than those of monetary policies .
today , the fastest-growing major cities are in asia . looking at a fast-growing city like houston , texas , earlier this month , we may be seeing the true impact of the urban heat island . beijing is roughly 10 ° c hotter than nearby countryside in the morning and a 5.5 ºc warmer at night . in august , temperatures climbed 12.5 oc above the nearby rural areas , reaching the 40oc – a fee-loving warmth that has affected not only the downtown area , but also covering some 8,000 square kilometers . an even more dramatic rise is occurring in tokyo , for example .
a rising minority began to pursue intense physical activity not in fields or factories , but in leisure settings . some people saw these changes going and , citing them , fear . the sweat of one ’s brow was no longer associated with productive work , but with consumption – often conspicuous consumption . and as coworkers began to exercise their operations collectively , enlightened employers came to see such recreation as a valuable resource for their physical and mental wellbeing . gyms became new sources of community .
some , such as the danish people ’s party , wish to follow the united kingdom ’s lead and hold a vote on eu membership . others want to flee from the european union , blocking the transatlantic trade and investment partnership ( ttip ) with the united states , or restrict labor mobility . the eu ’s refugee displacement scheme has proven particularly divisive . hungarian prime minister viktor orbán has declared that he will hold a referendum on the proposed quotas . according to the european council on foreign relations , an estimated 32 referenda in 18 intra-eu countries are being demanded .
from the beginning of his presidency , obama has been deficient in defending a liberal trade regime . he has repeatedly said that us exports are good for the american people : they create jobs . but american exports are other nations ’ imports , so obama ’s argument amounts to telling others to lose their jobs . the big problem , though , is that obama has been unable to confront , putting to the rest , us labor unions ’ fear-driven hostility toward trade . he needs to remind americans that imports are also good : he can be sure to ask his audience to reflect jobs in ups , shipping planes , freight trains , and trucks conducting imports to the american interior .
usury ( making money produced by money ) was a offense against god . it was not now seen as the healthily promethean to turn wealth into money , and to put it into work to make more money , because , by doing that one was profiting from mankind . this inspired america ’s way of life , where money always talks . the end of capitalism means simply the end of the urge to listen . it was not until the eighteenth century that greed became morally respectable .
that pattern persists across central and eastern europe , where governments have even opted to imprison drug users as well . addressing drug use through criminalization and rehabilitation centers does nothing to curb demand , however , and the usage rate has failed to fall . by driving users underground , criminalization contributes to a deepening public-health crisis . instead of focusing on treatment that works , the polish government chooses to give priority to long-term-rehabilitation centers located in the rural areas that have little , if anything , to do with evidence-based medicine . likewise , poland chooses to treat possession of even the smallest drug compared to criminalization , as demonstrated by denying that 60 % of people convicted for drug possession in poland are marijuana smokers .
frankfurt – the european central bank is at the center of a big , risky experiment . the unintended consequences of such a policy are becoming increasingly apparent as well as will become increasingly tangible with america ’s federal reserve ’s exit from the post-2008 ultra-loose monetary policies . meanwhile , financial markets are flooded with liquidity ; unlike in the us , financial markets are flooded with liquidity , finance markets are flooded with new debt . meanwhile , key interest rates have been left close to zero for six years now . crisis management has entailed major market distortions , with some segments of ’ performance no longer trumping fundamental economic data .
in the indian ocean region , nato is working with the european union and many others to police major sea lanes threatened by pirates . and , in countries around the world , it is carrying out tasks like de-mining , disaster relief , advising how to bring military force under democratic control , and working closely with the un to stop harm to children . the threats have shifted , and become more global . the alliance has evolved into true security-management organizations that are flexible , efficient , and cost-effective . nato is developing a ballistic-missile defense capability to protect our european populations and territories against a grave and growing threat .
china ’s dependence on fossil-fuel production has left it in a deep ecological hole , but its leaders are determined to climb it out . and , predictably , the eventual replacement of conventional motor vehicles globally is provided by the authorities for generous domestic manufacturing subsidies . meanwhile , the trump administration is attempting to turn back the clock by betting on the resuscitation of the dying – and deadly – the fossil-fuel industry . describing a shift to electric vehicles like the jobs killer , trump has advocated ending federal grants to encourage domestic development , manufacture , and purchase , such as the $ 7,500 us federal consumer tax . to promote sales , homebuyers are being exempted from both sales and excise taxes ( $ 6,000 – $ 10,000 per vehicle ) .
moreover , a tax would most likely have regressive distributional effects , hurting poor countries . provided that it is non-discriminatory , such border pricing would enhance global welfare and be compatible with world trade organization rules . but calculating the appropriate tax would be extremely difficult in theory at first . it would , for example , necessitate calculating the fiscal equivalent of the regulatory ceilings . the measure could also invite countries like the united states to retaliate with repressive measures , making it somewhat perilous .
eurozone countries , together with others willing to join the euro in the future ( a “ eurozone plus ” ) might simply decide to use legal means already available to enhance cooperation . ideally , such cooperation would occur within the eu ’s institutional framework . ideally , such cooperation would occur within the eu ’s institutional framework . if all eurozone members participated , article 136 of the treaty on the functioning of the eu could be used to support their action.the extent of that provision – which says that , “ the [ european ] council … shall take measures specific to [ euro-zone member states , ” ” ” ” ” and that “ only [ europe ’s member states do participate in the vote ” – are broad . moreover , article 138 would enable a unified eurozone representation in the international monetary fund and the world bank .
and agnes m. sigurðóttir , a bishop of iceland , has warned that a prohibition would effectively transform judaism and islam into the “ criminalized ” religions , ” because anyone practicing circumcision might be subject to six years in prison . complicating matters further , the two sides are laying their own arguments about human rights . for example , some ban supporters have argued that circumcision violates article 5 of the universal declaration of human rights ( udhr ) , which specifies that “ no one is subjected to torture or vicious , inhuman , or degrading treatment or punishment . ” for his part , imam ahmad seddeeq of iceland ’s islamic cultural center has been defying that circumcision is an integral part of muslim faith , and that gunnarsdóttir ’s bill sums into a “ contravention [ of ] religious liberty . ” gunnarsdóttir accepts that “ everyone has a right to believe in what they want , ” ” ” but insists , “ the rights of children come above the right to believe .
entanglement may alter the cost-benefit calculation of a major state like china ’s , but it probably has little effect on a state like north korea , which is weakly linked to the global economy . at the same time , they should pay attention to entanglement and to norms mechanisms . to be sure , entering any us adversary ’s network , and cracking down on attacks , raises the danger of escalation . “ persistent engagement ” can , however , support deterrence on such troublesome issues . but policy analysts can not limit themselves to the classical instruments of nuclear deterrence – punishment and denial , owing to the assessment of the possibilities for deterrence and dissuasion in cyberspace .
here , the eu ’s summit in december was an important step forward in terms of deepening political union and strengthening governance among eurozone member states . nevertheless , more will be required to restore financial stability , for example , enlarging the total firepower of the european financial stability facility . moreover , if the us wants the eu to emerge stronger from the crisis , it must also strike a better balance between austerity and pro-growth policies , for , without growth and higher employment , the eurozone ’s problems can not be solved . affirmation of a more rigorous and rigorous stability pact is also an imperative for achieving greater integration . more important , the eu must tie its economic strategies toward long-term competitiveness , ultimately defining precisely how value-added goods and services are created .
shadow banking in china has been dominated by lending to higher-yielding borrowers , such as local governments , property developers , and small and medium-size enterprises . in 2007 , the volume of shadow-banking transactions in the us exceeded that of conventional banking assets . the financial stability board projected that total global shadow-banking assets in 2011 amounted to ¥ 67 trillion , with america ’s bank of ¥ 23 trillion , the eurozone at $ 22 trillion , and the united kingdom ’s at $ 9 trillion . chinese shadow banking totals only about $ 2.2 trillion , and the us authorities receive ¥ 8 trillion . ultimately , it finances via retail bank deposits , banks ’ wealth-management products , and private capital .
there is no overarching explanation for obama ’s successive middle east failures , but several factors worth considering : the rise in levels of asymmetrical conflict , in which the traditional use of force is largely ineffective ; increasingly blurred lines between difficult allies and odious opponents ; and major political differences between a centrist american president and a congress that is dominated more than ever by extreme ideas . clearly , america can not do much to resolve a conflict , especially with a success . but obama himself bears much of the blame . in 2009 , obama envisioned a settlement of conflict through the international community ’s strong commitment . he asserted that only both sides ’ willingness to ensure a successful outcome .
with wages in china now rising precipitously , its labor-cost advantage is fast diminishing . as economists like mit ’s ’s david autor has shown , the impact of this in advanced countries can be both bad for some workers and good for corporate profits . but it can be extremely good for any developing country , which fosters a fruitful balance of inward investment and local entrepreneurship , and uses export-led growth proceeds to invest in infrastructure and skills . china ’s dramatic economic success would be impossible without the kind of labor-cost divergences that were initially fueled . but that type of trade will most likely become less important in the future .
beijing – just how quickly is china ’s population aging and what does a lower share of working-age people mean for the country ’s economic development ? a long period of low fertility implies that china ’s population is an aging and working-age population is slowing . but population-survey data published by the national bureau of statistics suggest that the tfr has grown at less than 1.5 over many years , and the united nations ’ just-released report , world fertility patterns 2009 , revises china ’s tfr to 1.4 in 2006 , placing it among low birth countries . can – and should – anything be done , especially for the country ’s “ one-child ” policy , slowing down this trend ? nowadays , most demographic predictions for china stem from the country ’s overall fertility rate ( tfr ) of 1.8 – unchanged for 20 years .
until the currency collapses in the 1990s , emerging and developing countries tended to target their exchange rates . many then switched to inflation targeting ; but they tend to miss those targets , even more often than the advanced countries do . after the monetarist approach failed , some of which pushed the inflation-targeting approach . but they repeatedly miss their targets , either . the problem with these monetary-policy approaches is that , while a particular numerical target may sound reasonable when it is established , successive unexpected developments often make the goal hard to live with .
the lesson to be drawn from the greek debacle is that the eurozone needs to develop sovereign-debt procedures as fast as it can , thereby preventing other sovereigns from turning into creditors through debt mutualization . borrowing from one ’s friend will no longer be a friend of mine . unless this heeded wisdom then will become impossible to hold europe together . in fact , the dangers now facing europe as a consequence of socializing debts far outweigh the one posed by the mere possible financial crisis . if europe ’s national governments are willing to aid one another in a crisis , they should unilaterally provide humanitarian aid , with no conditionality and no redemption .
finally , orbán and his supporters maintain their grip on power partly by relying on gerrymandering and voter suppression ( which mostly affect hungarians living in western europe ) . orbán is a pariah in european circles for defying hungarian democracy ; yet trump recently welcomed him to the white house , describing him as “ respected across europe . ” trump and his advisers evidently have learned great lessons from orbán about racist immigration policies and his attempts to crush polish democracy . trump ’s republican party is using similar tactics elsewhere , and he is selling off . they are not making america great or even good ; making it hungarian .
making matters worse , orbán has demolished hungary ’s civil-service independence and deeply politicized the civil service ’s governance . trump is doing much the same thing , with an outcome that america ’s government now loses about 94 % of its regulatory court cases . whereas orbán has applied economic pressure to compel the closure of the hungarian opposition media , trump has described the press as “ the enemy of the people ” ” and threatened libel actions against critical outlets . at the same time , trump has purged some 17,000 us public officials by firing american department personnel , shutting down the us government , freezing pay , and creating an atmosphere hostile to honest , open-minded debate about how to formulate and execute policy . by politicizing america ’s governance agencies , beginning to capture the us justice department , and committing to render ideological judicial appointments , trump is now a long along in his quest to destroy the rule of law in america .
to decide not to challenge these data , folta continues , and instead to “ publish a map showing that munich is squarely in the gulf of mexico , opposing all other data and trying to make millions of rather dry germans , does n’t make you brilliant . ” folta offers brilliant send-up ayyadurai ’s work . but it is unclear from ayyadurai ’s article that the data were used , and there is no validation of a model . “ if you ’ve developed the computer program that integrated internet data to forecast the location of munich , and the program told you that you are squarely in the gulf of mexico , ’re not the case for munich , right away from florida , either . instead , it means that you have made a mistake in your program , preconditions , or inputs alike , all testable .
yet , by the fall of 2008 , at the peak of the global financial crisis , eurozone heads of state failed to consider creating a common , bank-backed fund . instead , they settled for a package of national action aimed at stabilizing the national banking system one by one . in other words : europe faces a fundamental , collective-action problem . the sum of headline commitment has been impressive , covering 20 % of gdp . experience has shown that only an acute crisis can force europe ’s leaders to act together in a concerted effort .
one 17-day war ensued , but the status quo prevailed . the two sides fought once again in 1971 , although kashmir was not the focus . after civil war pitting then-west pakistan against the bengali freedom fighters of then-east pakistan fueled a surge of east pakistan ’s refugees , india began supporting rebel groups there . west pakistan was forced to surrender , and east pakistan became the independent state in bangladesh . then another indo-pakistani skirmish over kashmir erupted in 1999 , after pakistan sent troops into the indian-controlled district of kargil .
with the emergence in the 1980 ’s of hiv , which compromises the immune system , tb reemerged , as the number-one hiv-infected individual killer . roughly 15 million people suffer from co-infected hiv , and mycobacterium tuberculosis , a primary-causative agent in most cases . handling tb effectively requires , say , a minimum of three drugs administered over the course of at least six months . whereas pandemics seem abruptly , spreading rapidly , fueling tremendous anxiety about an imminent threat , tb has spread slowly but consistently over tens of thousands of years , patiently waiting for new opportunities . moreover , tubercle bacillus engages in mrench warfare , gaining resistance to conventional antibiotics , and canonical vaccination approaches , as well as delaying drug sensitivity diagnosis and .
the disadvantages to strengthen europe ’s fiscal union further do not end there . continued progress toward fiscal union would , ironically , make political union an ever more unlikely target for one simple but important reason : france . in 2005 , france rejected a proposed european union constitution that might mark the beginning of the process of political unification . europe , by far , thwarted every attempt to pool europe ’s armed forces . in 1954 , france ’s national assembly rejected a treaty to the western european defense organization .
they know that their home supervisor has powerful tools at its disposal – for example , it can lower borrowing costs , thereby protecting the banks ( at least not just so long ) – and giving a powerful stake in protecting its reputation . the limits of inflation targeting are now starkly clear . central banks now must reconcile the need to maintain price stability with accountability , regardless of whether it is legally mandated – in order to minimize financial vulnerability . that will not be easy , not least because of another new operational strain that placed on many central banks : macro-prudential and micro-prudential supervision . micro-prudential supervision , in particular , implies risks of political pressure , interference with central banks ’ autonomy , and policy conflicts – all of which may influence financial intermediaries ’ behavior by encouraging them to assume even more risk .
so , why is n’t this happening routinely in the developing world ? in contrast to the developed countries , an unusually large number of smaller , unproductive firms coexist with a vanishingly small number of large , productive firms . if a small , unproductive firms were shuttered and larger , more productive firms hiring their workers , aggregate output , and well-being would have risen . according to standard view of economic reasoning , this was grossly inefficient . this should happen automatically through the invisible hand of competition , because the more productive firms should be able to deliver superior credit at declining prices , again jamming workers with higher pay .
as china ’s new leadership team emerges , the world ’s attention has turned its attention to president jiang zemin ’s successor . but this is misguided , for perhaps the single most significant moment in china ’s recent history of boom and transformation was the 1998 appointment of zhu rongji ( the pronounced “ joo rong-jee ” ) as premier of the state council , a position once held by deng xiaoping . in fact , even before becoming premier , mr. zhu , as president of the people ’s central bank , he famously dubbed the architect of china ’s 8 % annual economic growth in the 1990s and verdicts for his successful fight against declining inflation . given the post ’s apparent relevance in recent years , the choices that have been about mr. zhu ’s replacement may be of even greater relevance than president jiang ’s departure from the center stage . mr. zhu was china ’s jack welch , tough-minded , longtime ceo of the american conglomerate general electric -- a man celebrated for his candor , his global sophistication and his insistence on performance .
by contrast , trade among african countries accounts for only about 10-12 % of the continent ’s exports and imports . for some analysts , the emergence of countries like brazil as economic powerhouses stems partly from the successful demutualization of their stock exchanges . but , partly because a few african countries have escaped the hang-over from the global credit crisis , more investors are focused on entrepreneurial opportunities . twenty-three bourses currently operate in africa , with their combined market capitalization rising from $ 245 billion in 2002 to more than $ 1 trillion ( 2 % of world gdp ) at the end of 2009 – as high as the world ’s fifteenth-largest domestic stock exchanges . by 2050 , the combined gdp of the largest 11 african economies should reach over $ 13 trillion , surpassing brazil and russia ( but not with china or india ) .
at the same time , some countries suffer as the skilled workers emigrate . the trained doctors should not be led by taxicarabs , who should not be led by the law . but the failure to devise mechanisms that enable migrants to exploit their skills is causing even greater harm . establishing national , regional , and global norms is not an easy one . • accelerate eligibility for residency rights and citizenship , as well as for jobs .
in contrast to trump and the united kingdom ’s “ leave ” campaign , the national front already holds a predictable core constituency , amounting to about one-quarter of voters . its coalition of old french far right and disaffected working-class voters will not arrive unannounced or beaten expectations , as occurred in france and the united kingdom . what ’s more , political catholicism still appeals for many french voters , and the church itself wants to lure catholics away from the national front and back into its more traditionally conservative fold . fillon , for his part , may muster the same level of support and may even be able to skim votes from le pen , given that roughly 8 % of primary voters describe themselves as the national front ’s backers . heading into the election campaign , fillon may be running on a pro-european platform , as evidenced by his pivot during the second-round debates when he suggested that he favors forming european governments .
for years , poles ranked owsiak as the country ’s greatest moral authority , ahead of the pope . it pursues power without considering the consequences of its actions . the state media ’s narrative portraying owsiak and civic platform as guilty parties behind adamowicz ’s murder will only undermine the pis . large numbers of poles engaged in charity ’s fundraising drives . kaczyński has repeatedly displayed his impulsiveness .
new york – the last fast-food hamburger you ate may have cost you beyond nothing . but what did the tomato slice on that burger cost the worker who did it ? almost anywhere in the world , including in the united states , the cost can be shockingly high . the value of appalling wages is just the beginning ; it ’s the time to start . in florida , the tomato pickers make up $ 0.50 for every 32-a-ton bucket .
beijing – since then , xi has said little about the “ china dream ” of living , and his silence has created significant problems . when xi first unveiled his slogan after being selected as the ccp ’s new general secretary , he defined it in simple , accessible , but nonetheless generic , terms : the “ china people dream ” of living equally well in much of the world . china ’s increasingly zealous propaganda officials , evidently fearful of not showing sufficient fidelity and reverence for a new party chief , quickly hijacked the slogan ; the “ china dream ” that the mainland has replaced the “ china model ” in official political branding . sadly , china ’s propagandists , who are doubling down as censors , have a perverse capacity to discredit anything that they seek to label . whatever the new administration will be touted as part of its ambitious efforts to make the “ china dream ” come true .
even in animals , whose genes are more easily studied and much improved to understand , such as drosophila , the miniscule fruit fly , there is no simple one-to-one correspondence between a gene and behavioral trait . likewise , even the many aspects of their individual behavior resemble our own . in reality , they can not , because of gene experimentation on humans , are impossible . instead , a broad variety of individual genes influence each characteristic – all of us . the fruits of fly genes are shockingly similar to those of us in most other settings .
cambodia is currently stripped of its natural resources , including wood , rubber , and sandy , for private-sector gain . pension fiduciary duties and fund managers now insist that companies where they invest operate in ethical , transparent ways to limit reputational risk . cambodia ’s pension fiduciary duties and fund managers now insist that the firms where they invest operate in the ethical , transparent ways to rein in reputational risk . investment decisions based on emerging-market funds thus increasingly precede rigorous esg screenings – screenings that , after 34 years of hun sen ’s dictatorial rule , cambodia has little chance of passing . government pension fiduciary duties and fund managers now insist that companies where they invest operate in an ethical , transparent way to limit reputational risk .
simply put , talk of “ brexit ” has exposed europe ’s economic and political fault lines , and there is no going back . in the run-up to world war ii , european countries ’ national-security interests were aligned . whereas the british were particularly open about the nationalistic nature of their support of european integration , other eu members were incurious for their domestic interest . nonetheless , efforts to establish political unity through a common army failed in 1954 , highlighting that economic common ground was the key to european integration . robert peston , in his 2005 biography of then-vice chairman gordon brown , described brown ’s “ pragmatic view ” that the eu was doing good only because it delivered the practical welfare gains of peace and prosperity to britain ’s ” ” ” ” ” ” ” .
they view even the euro as an weapon against the dollar , and rejoice when the euro is “ strong ” and the dollar is “ fragile ” . this is a dangerous state of affairs for those on either side of the atlantic who have come to trust in the values of the enlightenment and in the eu ’s constitution of liberty . there is such a thing as the west in regard to basic values . the u.s. found a new “ empire of evil ” in “ terrorist ” states and organizations ; europe found a new adversary to help it integrate in the united states . quite a few in europe define the eu as an instrument to hold its own against the united states .
in that case , tusk would most likely revert to domestic politics , where the ninth victory against the pis would be the punishments kaczyński deserves . the most saryusz-wolski can realistically hope for a certain government position in poland . perhaps he will replace the widely criticized foreign minister , witold waszczykowski . he is merely kaczyński ’s “ useful idiot ” in an effort to score a political victory over a man who represents the greatest threat the pis faces . most of the pis , for its part , may hope to hope for the fact that some coalition of countries ( such as those ruled by the social democrats ) will propose another alternative to tusk , whom eu member states will elect to avoid escalation of the conflict with poland .
i can not help but recall the situation that erupted in the summer of 1992 , when a small majority of danish voters rejected the maastricht treaty . now the eu is confronted by an iranian stew . but this time , it is difficult to see a way out that offers a second referendum . renegotiating the treaty is beyond question , because doing so would open a pandora ’s box of demands from everybody else . so the issue lies with the iranians , and must solve it .
even were banks healthy , the deleveraging process , and the associated loss of wealth mean that , more likely than not , the economy will remain fragile . and a weak economy means , more likely than not , multiple bank losses . nonetheless , experiences around the world suggest that this is a high-risk outlook . the issues are not limited to the american system ; they are the problem . other countries ( like spain ) have their own real-estate crises .
nonetheless , even as it has increased its capacity to provide military forces for un , nato , or eu operations , germany has made clear that it does not view itself as a global military power . german policymakers continue to believe that political and economic means for influence are more effective than violence , by clamoring for further development of soft-power tools , including digital diplomacy . they are also eager to develop more such “ networked ” national and european foreign policies that account for the operations and potential contributions of non-state actors . doing so would be a wise choice , with just as we should know it . for the moment , germany ’s top foreign-policy priorities are most likely to remain the eu and the continent ’s eastern and southern neighbors – from which its immediate security risks tend to trump most .
if greece and other countries are to ensure their citizens ’ health and prosperity over the decades to come , they will need to find ways to prevent current economic activity from raising an already unsustainable buffer of greek debt . for that to happen , ecological resources must come to fruition as valuable endowments that are meant to manage wisely . of course , countries with ecological deficits can often fill part of the gap through global trade – as long as they can pay for necessary imports . the mediterranean region ’s unique , breathtaking , natural capital is one of its greatest assets – a reason why more than 200 million african tourists flood into the region each year , feeding the region ’s economies . overusing resources , or even managing them carefully , inevitably saps the region ’s economic strength .
ms. park once pledged to give grants to working-class families from elementary school to university , while contending that local universities should be empowered to have more autonomy . park ’s achievement will ultimately depend on her campaign ’s effectiveness in further defining her own character along those lines . but she must convincingly outline practical strategies for resolving south korea ’s most severe problems , including high unemployment , deteriorating educational achievement , and north korea ’s nuclear-weapons program . she favors the policy of engagement and the six-party talks , so as to resolve nuclear distress . come a presidential election-day in 2012 , south korean voters pick a candidate who embodies pragmatism and centrism over a partisan or ideologue .
and adjustment must become wedded to a growth strategy . up-front gradualism must be the name of the game . revenues will grow consistently only if the tax base – that is , economies – grows . and that growth requires higher public-sector investment in infrastructure and human capital . a fiscal compact like the one endorsed recently is helpful in anchoring expectations for future adjustment , but only if the new system is flexible enough to be politically credible .
more recently , the european central bank has reiterated its position that severe fiscal consolidation would generate a sufficient increase in private-sector confidence that households and companies ’ spending gains are more than offset by lower spending by governments . america ’s major trading partners want the american people to grow and buy more of their exports . more recently , the european central bank reiterated its position that severe fiscal consolidation would generate a sufficient increase in private-sector trust that more than offset less spending by governments and firms . second , under the g-20 ’s own “ mutual assessment process , ” the international monetary fund suggested that the united states slashed its fiscal deficit to 3 % of gdp more than was projected – more than $ 400 billion in additional cuts every year . the imf believes that current fiscal plans will deter american economic growth .
i admit that i come to view the heritage of communism with more skepticism . indeed , totalitarian pressure did , along with the establishment of extraordinary people like john paul ii and alexander solzhenitsyn , people for whom religious faith purchased freedom from mendacity and solitude . but it did the same for andrei sakharov and vaclav havel , who defended their supreme values with a allusion to and , in the language , lay humanism . for most people , however , living under a totalitarian dictatorship was not ennobling ; rather , it was a daily immersion in lies , spiritual depravity , and material corruption . this is one reason why the postcommunist societies do not demonstrate any nobility or disinterested , which seriously contrasts with the west .
likewise , the world bank ’s climate focus comes at the odds of what the world ’s poorest citizens want . under kim , bank propagated the simplistic idea that fossil fuels will always hurt us , that coal will be prohibited , and that “ climate-mitigation ” ” ” is the solution . in fact , the evidence clearly indicates that direct policies are a far more effective strategy . when the un asked almost ten million people worldwide to list their priorities , they emphasized better education and health care , fewer corruption , more job opportunities , and affordable food . and yet global warming has come last among the 16 issues .
trump carries on about the paris agreement ’s supposedly bias in favor of india , but fails to acknowledge that india ’s per capita emissions are 1.6 tons , just one-tenth of america ’s level . trump also bemoans america ’s contributions to the green climate fund ( and its sneers in the name of some reason ) . consider the most recent data for a year 2014 from the 2016 international energy agency . the world ’s co2 emissions from the energy and industry averaged 4.5 tons per person ( 32.4 billion tons per 7.2 billion people in the iea tabulation ) , while america ’s emissions went almost four times that level , 16.2 tons per person ( 5.2 billion tons for 320 million people ) . he complains that america has already given india more than $ 1 billion without explaining to americans and the world that $ 1 billion provides a contribution to $ 3,08 per american .
and when they can not reach agreement on a course of action , it is difficult for the organization to operate . sometimes likened to a “ secular pope , ” ” ” ” ” un secretary general , can wield the soft power of persuasion but little hard economic or military force . what hard power the un has to be beg and borrowing for member states is to be heard . as one wag put it , “ we met the un , and it ’s us ! ” true , un secretary general ban ki-moon can make speeches , convene meetings , and suggest actions , but his role is more secretary general than general .
a meeting of presidents , after all , is an ultimate negotiating forum , and it must lead to a real , sustainable achievement . that prospect holds the prospect of containing both of the greatest opportunities and the risk of serious risks . there is reason why no such meeting took place during the 20 years of conflict . perhaps for this reason , there has been talks of a meeting in astana between russian and france ’s presidents , america ’s secretary of state , and those of armenia and azerbaijan . otherwise , it will appear that no amount of negotiation can help set the caucasus straight , powerfully undermining key restraint to resolving the two sides once again .
true , venezuela ’s president nicolás maduro is ruling unconstitutionally , relying on emergency decrees and the all-powerful , one-party , enthronged the constituent assembly , while ignoring the elected national assembly and banning opposition political parties . but the impact of his misrule is such that venezuelans are dying from starvation , the health-care system has collapsed , and violence and contagious diseases are now completely out of control . governments in communities in communities and europe are finding themselves in rough , uncharted waters . if the issue were simply a matter of gross violations by the organization of america ’s ruling democratic charter – convincingly certified by oas secretary general luis almagro – solutions measured over several months or years could be considered . but venezuela is not just a political problem ; it is a humanitarian catastrophe of unprecedented proportions .
but the pace at which the political world is embracing social media has accelerated dramatically over the past year . chief minister of west bengal mamata banerjee is running a popular and widely read web site that the traditional media outlets mine on people ’s daily . a day after being sworn in as india ’s president , pranab mukherjee , announced that he would open a account of facebook to receive and respond to popular questions . similarly , omar abdullah , the youthful chief minister of jammu and kashmir , regularly interacts with twitter , and his predominantly older of rajasthan and kerala counterparts , ashma gehlot and oomon chandy , opened facebook accounts as well . just a day after being sworn in as india ’s then-president , pranab mukherjee , announced that he would open facebook to receive and respond to popular questions .
related to this view is that nowadays economic development depends less on a specific country and more on regional integration that can serve to avoid the negative consequences of those financial speculations boosted by globalization . but , in agreeing on open regional economies to imports , the poor and developing countries must be allowed some means to protect their new industries . only such inclusive cooperation can secure a solid political basis for integration . so long as a country is burdened by an uncontrolled power of globalization , its future lies in its foreign hands . so the world needs , within its regions , to facilitate integration based on a broadly accepted pattern of economic democratization : currency compatibility , free trade , shared rule of law , and most of all a common will to correct the rules of the game according to the region ’s entire interests .
since that money clearly benefited mubarak but not his people , should it not be mubarak , rather than his victims , who were held accountable for him ? the type of regime mubarak ran for many years as well . is it fair to expect that egyptians would continue to pay for their previous repression and impoverishment with mubarak and his henchmen ? a prudent lender was supposed to consider these realities before borrowing was issued . when egyptians rose against mubarak in january , they were confronted with guns paid for paying for borrowed money .
thus , claims of alternative strategies must be set at a somewhat lower level – say , the initial exchange rate that might have elected to make east germany a low wage country . even that is the stuff of dreams since , in the face of high unemployment , east german wages rose substantially every year relative to west germany . one alternative strategy , remotely conceivable , is that west germany would predict the failure of the pre-embarking on the experiment . at a more depreciated conversion rate the us simply would experience a faster wage inflation rate . maybe those are ideas en vogue in korea as thinking of possible unification , but even there it takes a hard work to go around when the time comes .
public-sector investment is at a record high enough ; expanding it now would shift the composition of aggregate demand in the wrong direction . and online platforms are facilitating increased consumption , while expanding market-based access and financing for smaller firms . and , with the us corporate sector already over-leveraged , broad-based credit expansion is not secure . china ’s leaders should aim to accelerate and build upon these trends , rather than pursuing additional fiscal and monetary stimulus . new service enterprises , $ 3.6 million of which were launched just last year , are generating incremental employment , thanks in part to a streamlined licensing framework .
the eu has mechanisms to regulate economic policies , safeguard the environment , and police the single market . the hungarians and poles must be reminded that russian president vladimir putin is actively attempting to divide and weaken the eu and nato . if europe is to confront down aggression from the kremlin , it is vital that poland and hungary abide by such groups ’ core values and principles . yet it is also necessary that the eu itself develop a more comprehensive mechanism for upholding the rule of law within the union . one would be unimaginable for nato heads of state to go ahead with their projected leadership summit in warsaw in june if poland remains stuck in its constitutional crisis , its government ’s disregard for the rule of law , and a view of the respected international body .
many fear , with good reason : fossil-fuel concerns will exploit solar geoengineering to oppose emissions cuts . but that risk is not an adequate reason to dismiss or suppress research on solar geoengineering . the overwhelming majority of those recasting solar geoengineering , or advocating for its inclusion in climate-policy debates , also support much stronger action to cut emissions . still , it seems most likely that large fossil-fuel companies , from multinational energy companies to coal-dependent regions , will eventually use the debate about geoengineering to fight emissions restrictions . yet most researchers are not driven by such interests .
national greatness for a world power always arises from its ability to shape the world . if a great power forgets that , or loses its ability to act accordingly , it starts in a slump . instead , america has succumbed to the temptation of “ unilateralism . ” it is almost tempting to think that america ’s great cold war adversary , the soviet union , with its sudden disappearance 15 years ago , has left its own trojan horse for america – the poisoned gift of unilateralism . achieving this will require america to subordinate its strength to the goal of shaping a new order , much as it did at the close of world war ii in 1945 .
for its part , industrialized economies must do more to support africa ’s nascent oil industries , and ensure that the harmful effects of rising oil production are mitigated . that means engaging sincerely with african governments to devise how best to support national agendas on development and diversified . for such strategies to work , however , the oil industry needs to get on board . the upcoming abu dhabi international petroleum exhibition and the conference hosted by abu dhabi ’s national petroleum corporation – which barkindo , together with numerous african energy ministers and oil-industry leaders – present an ideal opportunity to initiate such a process . working with other stakeholders , campaigners for sustainable and only transition can also achieve something more : enabling carbon energy to have a positive impact on economies that have so far experienced only the adverse impact of twenty-first-century oil-backed development .
economic development in the gaza strip was constrained under egyptian rule , and the region suffered the burden of absorbing palestinian refugees fleeing fighting in the south part of the compulsory palestine , which would later become israel . the 1967 war put all of the mandatory palestine ( as both sinai and the golan ) under israeli military occupation . nevertheless , though one-third of the west bank has been closed to palestinians to make room for several thousand jewish settlers , only 10 % of its predominantly rural population is refugees , many holding their land , and a host of job opportunities have been made available . by contrast , 70 % of gaza ’s inhabitants comprised refugees , living in difficult conditions in scores of refugee camps , and much depends on labor inside israel . palestinians ’ approach to egypt has been restricted , and much of gaza ’s predominantly unskilled workforce has depended on the un relief works , which have built up and retained local refugee camps .
a second suggestion in history is often written by the key people themselves . after world war ii , winston churchill confidently asserted that history would treat him kindly , because “ i ” suggests to write that history . when the financial crisis erupted , a very similar mindset may have crossed into the minds of hank paulson , ben bernanke , and tim geithner , who was us treasury secretary , chairman of the us federal reserve bank , and new york fed chair alan greenspan , respectively . all three of the published lengthy memoirs explain why they did and did not , do whatever they did and did not , inevitably , with a level of self-justifying in every case . now , a decade later , the three co-authored what could be described as 2.1 of that episode ’s history .
moreover , by carrying out incremental reforms that facilitate – and even encourage – replacing the old , inefficient sources of growth with new , more dynamic ones has expedite this process . in this sense , east asian economies have embraced a process of sound debt management described by the austrian economist joseph schumpeter , whereby economic structure is revolutionized from within . for example , china ’s productivity-enhancing agricultural reform in the 1980s was spurred partly by growth in the nonfarm sector , a result of policies focused on borrowing swedish and village enterprises ( soes ) . the goal was not to tackle the problems they faced directly ; on the contrary , it was to induce new , more efficient activities that could help turn indebted poor households into asset markets and maximize usage of economies ’ capacity . similarly , in the 1990s , china addressed the buildup of bad debts and unfinished construction projects – the result of state-owned enterprises ( soes ) with student-approval ratings and excessive wealth investment , larry summers – by implementing institutional reforms that have stimulated growth in more dynamic sectors , thereby offsetting the soes ’ declining returns on capital .
brussels – as protests over china ’s crackdowns in tibet , and the debate over kosovo ’s unilateral declaration of independence continue to fester , the unfairness of taiwan ’s ongoing international isolation has barely stirred an interest-rate flicker , despite taiwan ’s recent presidential election and a referendum on united nations membership . this neglect is not only shortsighted ; it may at first prove dangerous . this seeming double standard can be explained partly by a sense of guilt : the west has embraced kosovo ’s independence , mostly in its attempt to self-insure its own culpability for not stopping slobodan milosevic ’s campaign of ethnic cleansing there . similarly , much of the world goes on protesting tibet in the name of countless millions having witnessed china ’s brutal suppression of tibetan culture . taiwan , by contrast , is not gaining our attention because it is stable and thriving economically .
may ’s two leading spads , male fiona hill and nick timothy , took this danger to worrying levels . whatever the option , now seems clear that britain needs a policy to command broad , genuine support . during my 17-month experience as acting minister , i became convinced that the eu ’s spads of overweening power – and haughty access – undermines the uk ’s excellent civil service , along with elected and appointed ministers . many are now eagerly offering their views to whether the uk should take a fresh look at the “ norway model ” ” ” ” ” ” of relations with the eu , or to some other regime that maintains uk participation in the single market . a second change for the better would , i hope , be less controversial : reducing the power bestowed on the uk ’s unelected , or spads , who have become the dominant figures in all government departments .
it would be naive to imagine that nanotechnology evolves without risk in our health and the environment . indeed , many of the ingredients used for making nanomaterials are currently known to present risks to human health . while attempting to block the development of nanomateriaterial-inspired technology would be as irresponsible as it is unrealistic , a responsible development of those technologies demands vigilance and social commitment . setting aside the question of nanomaterials ’ toxicity , preliminary results suggest that fabricating nanomaterials entails risks that are less than or comparable to those associated with many of our current industrial activities . an encouraging trend is that the methods used to make nanomaterials often become “ greener ” as moving from the laboratory to industrial production .
today , nearly 4.5 billion people have internet access , and around one in three internet users are below the age of 18 . as a result , the unregulated online world is fertile ground for reaping vast gains from child sex traffickers . globally , human trafficking generates an average annual earnings of $ 150 billion , of which two-thirds ( $ 99 billion ) originates in forced sexual exploitation . would-be traffickers require only a laptop or a smartphone with high-speed internet connection to going to business . with the rapid growth of digital platforms threatening to make child sex trafficking even more lucrative , the world needs to take urgent , coordinated action to combat this appalling crime .
it should not come as a surprise that the euro began to slide against the dollar by considering differences in economic performance between america and europe . and it should not come as a surprise that markets tested europe 's policymakers ' willingness to stay silent where monetary affairs are concerned . the euro has endured a hard but hopeful start to the beginning . the recent intervention and support from america and japan demonstrated that europe is around to stay , and that markets believed in its success . we all owe it to this .
now that the internet fever has abated , we hear that “ fundamentals ” are reasserting themselves . but this view holds as much half-truths about the previous notion that a boom would last forever , because internet economies have shaped new fundamentals . humans have learned by paying to buy dips and not being weaned off from habit until it stopped paying for them . indeed , the internet boom/bust cycle brings into question prevailing economic theories about financial markets . what should be obvious today is that so-called expected fundamentals that supposedly determine stock prices are not independently given .
palo alto – since the advent of sixteenth-century toxicology , its guiding principle has argued that “ making the dose makes the poison ” . the risk that a substance poses broadly depends on two factors : its inherent capacity to inflict harm and one ’s exposure to it . it is a rule that applies to patient medicines worldwide numerous billions of times every day . the right dossiers may be a therapeutic godsend , but consuming too much can be deadly . the principle even applies to foods : large quantities of nutmeg or licorice are notoriously toxic .
given libya ’s inadequate democratic experience , some view this as an probable outcome in a post-qaddafi era . cyrenaica qaddafi-free , tripolitania is not , and fezzan was not fully joined by the revolution . the fourth scenario is partition , with the old , ottoman-style setup commonly alluded to : cyrenaica ( eastward ) , fezzan ( southern ) , and tripolitania ( the west ) . but libya is not the only country that has struggled to move from a dictatorship to a democracy with weak institutions and entrenched tribal identity . albania , mongolia , and india have successfully passed more complicated tests and offered some useful lessons in democratic transitions under unfavorable conditions .
giavazzi and tabellini ’s proposal may entail too big a stimulus . but they also highlight a crucial question : how did quantitative easing stimulate the economy ? they argue that ecb quantitative easing by itself , with no fiscal relaxation , would be ineffective . the bank of england presented qe as simply a tool of monetary policy that sustains economic growth in the face of needed , and desirable , fiscal consolidation . they propose tax cuts that are equal to 5 % of gdp for 3-4 years in all eurozone countries , financed by very large government debt , all of which the ecb should buy .
and the tone of political debate , not surprisingly , has become much nastier . standard & poor ’s has received some justified criticism for the analysis behind its recent decision to downgrade us government debt ; after all , there was little economic news that could explain the move ’s timing . never mind that eye-popping growth projections in representative paul ryan ’s budget plan , for example , are utterly implausible ; such projections matter politically , because , without them , a full-blown sting of ryan ’s proposed medicare cuts would come readily apparent . likewise , the eye-popping growth projections in representative paul ryan ’s budget plan , for example , are utterly implausible ; such projections matter politically , because , without them , a full-scale sting of ryan ’s proposed medicare cuts would come readily apparent . likewise , confrontation and brinkmanship became the newspeak of american politics ’s again , even as america ’s administration , its legal ability to service its debts , is on the line , owing to tea party ideological rigidities .
on trade , trump and xi agreed on a 100-day plan for discussions on cutting america ’s trade deficit with china . for his part , trump accepted xi ’s invitation to visit china soon . both seemed to recognize that a stable us-china relationship is necessary to enable trump to focus on their respective challenges . moreover , trump accepted china ’s proposal to revamp the framework for bilateral engagement by creating the us-china comprehensive dialogue , consisting of four nondialogues : diplomacy and security , economic issues , law enforcement , and funding for corruption , as well as social and cultural issues . the understanding between xi and trump has reflected a sobering acknowledgement of domestic and international risks that their countries face .
the uae and qatar have already instituted compulsory military service for adult males . and kuwait is contemplating following in jordan ’s footsteps , with the revival of conscription already underway in most sunni states ( and in iran ) . against this backdrop , efforts to tame deep-seated sunni-shia rivalries ( by improving relations between saudi arabia and iran , for example ) , while undoubtedly significant , should not take priority over a strategy to address the sectarianism plaguing the sunni belt . that strategy must center on federalism , with its own moral authority . had federalism been introduced in somalia , for example , when the north-south rift that ensued , it probably would not have ended up as a failed state .
the left ’s yearning for peace is perceived as naive , if not an exercise in political lunacy ( and , in either case , an unpardonable betrayal of jewish identity ) . the left ’s failure to recognize that israeli elections are not strictly partisan politics ; they are an expression of an ongoing kulturkampf in an ethnically kaleidoscopic society . israeli elections are in some ways a tribal affair ; people vote according to the foundations of memories , insults , religious sensibilities , and group grievances . netanyahu positioned himself as a magnet for the fears and complexes of a wide range of aggrieved voters , including russian immigrants , orthodox jews , most traditionalist israelis , and religious settlers . the israeli right ’s contemporary political dominance feeds on widespread longing for jewish roots , a deep-seated fear of arabs , and an uncompromising mistrust of the “ world , ” a so-called “ international community , with which jews have a centuries-old ” dispute .
according to mgi ’s research , more than 100 million jobs could be created over the next 10-15 years , as health-care and educational needs have grown . furthermore , among new jobs that will be created will multiple fields , such as education and health care , where women have traditionally prospered . women ’s success in e-commerce attests to the power associated with digital technologies to the level of economic playing field ; to the benefit of individual women , their communities , and societies ; and to the global economy . and yet it is far from clear precisely how automation will affect female employment . but there is little doubt that protecting – and even diminishing – women ’s job and income prospects will require upgrading their skills to take advantage of the new and changing opportunities created by the ongoing digital revolution .
after loyalty had been secured , however , the government adopted a more pragmatic policy . with some very short-lived exceptions , russia ’s imperial rule failed to support orthodox evangelism . russia conquered muslim territories in the volga-ural region , the caucasus and central asia , and brutally repressed any opposition . indeed , russia ’s contacts with the muslim world would return a thousand years , and have been rooted in a tradition of tolerance . until the messiedging sedentary muslim elites into an imperial aristocracy , just as the ussr absorbed national communist elites into soviet nomenclatura .
hong kong has endured an unprecedented 17 weeks of mostly peaceful demonstrations ( occasional episodes of violence have attracted a disproportionate number of media attention ) . the trigger was a proposed extradition law that many feared will expand the mainland ’s reach for hong kong ’s judiciary system . the absence of any plan for deploying diverse protest groups , and of hong kong ’s government , has become a source of mounting concern . such a plan would need to do at least two things . first , all parties ( including china ’s central government in this case ) need to recommit to the “ one country , two systems ” frameworks .
to address this distortions head on , and to provide clarity about how funds are allocated , the egf should shift its limited funds on two easy , active labor-market program : wage insurance and the allowance of mobility . the allowance of mobility could offer those moving for a new job a lump-sum payment of two months ’ gdp in the previous job , or , four months , paying for cross-border moves . the downsizing of such a scheme ’s very simplicity will probably ensure its high-visibility and reasonable take-up rates . the downside of such a focused approach is also apparent : the margin of choice for eu members on how egf funds must be spent in their home countries would be minimal . wage insurance might offer workers , whose pay has been slashed after displacement compensation for up to two years amounting to about half the difference between old and new wages .
but kharas ’s projections suggest that asia accounts for two-thirds of the global middle class by 2030 . in other words , asia will displace not just the west , but even other large emerging-market regions . of course , the rise of asia ’s middle class is not the only change that one should expect to see . in fact , asia ’s share stood at 28 % ( after included in japan ) . this is the true commercial opportunity to do just that .
some , like france ’s national front , oppose their countries ’ eurozone membership ; others , like podemos in spain , do not . nonetheless , the challenge these new parties pose to europe could prove tremendously disruptive . a greek exit from the eurozone , together with financial and political turmoil closer to greece , would be perceived as a major defeat for european integration , particularly after the laborious efforts made to hold together the monetary union , and with it the european dream . such an outcome would be even more disheartening in the face of the tragic terrorist attacks in paris , and post-unity marches in france and across the continent , rekindled a long-fading sense of european solidarity . populist parties , both on the far right and the far left , are gaining electoral traction .
taken together , all of these deficiencies cast profound doubt on the eu ’s claims to be guided by the debate over a fundamental reshaping of global economic governance . europe ’s governments are repeat the mantra of “ effective multilateralism , ” but they seem to lack a comprehensive strategy to translating this into coherent policymaking . european governments are only now dismayed at accepting the need to scale back their over-representation in multilateral bodies , recognizing that it undermines rather than enhances the eu ’s global influence by pressuring other powers to isolate arrangements . but , while deliberation plays into how much europe should retreat from its historic domination over multilateral bodies , little vision exists beyond that . indeed , when europeans think about reforming global governance , they limit themselves to the number of seats and voting weights in international body .
são paulo – a decades-old legal struggle between consumers and financial institutions over the impact of brazil ’s economic policies of the 1980s and 1990s is approaching a turning point . during the late 1980s and early 1990s , the brazilian government struggled to stabilize the country ’s economy and currency . in december , the lawyers representing the claimants presented brazil ’s supreme court , with its request to ratify a settlement reached by the banks . if the court approves the deal , a settlement would put billions of reals into the pockets of savers . but , more than the long-awaited payday on some one million claimants , court-ordered restitution would also mark the official end of brazil ’s seemingly interminable war on hyperinflation .
one measure of this deficiency is borrowing rates ; in east africa , where my organization works , women borrow 13 % less farm-related money than men do . these barriers have had a dramatic effect on social and economic progress . in fact , today , women are dominating african agriculture , the continent ’s most important industry . illiteracy , scarce land ownership , and agency restrictions and mobility all conspire to reduce rural women ’s access to farm financing . but this has not translated into greater state control of finance .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , both iran and the us have been in war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . modi ’s government supporters tout a set of new , repressive legislation , including the criminalization of talaq-e-biddat , a muslim practice of “ instant divorce ” as a depiction of their resoluteness .
liquidity injections and low interest rates have a microeconomic effect that has received little attention : they lower the cost of capital vis-à-vis labor costs , causing a relative decline in demand for labor . this is most likely exacerbated by the unemployment problem ; certainly not mitigating it . one solution is to channel part of liquidity injections toward countering this factor-cost asymmetry . thus , for every $ 100 of new liquidity , the us could leverage the $ 60 in asset purchases , and the remainder would give marginal job-creation grants to firms that might be particularly effective in a flexible labor market that enables short-term hiring . even if an employment-related subsidy was offered just for , say , one year , firms would be tempted to use more labor during this period .
the seed treaty is being cut from equally anti-capitalist , anti-science , anti-innovation cloth as the convention on biological diversity ( cbd ) . it is overwrought , confusing , and complex that in short , inimical to innovations that could benefit the global community ’s very poor . it also mirrors , in a way that flagrantly unscientific , anti-genetic-engineering cartagena protocol on biosafety to the cbd . and it has much in common with pittsburgh ya-kuala lumpur additional protocol on liability and redress to the cartagena protocol , yet another anti-genetic-engineering fireman , which accomplishes little but terrific potential entrepreneurs going out of agricultural biotechnology . what is obvious is that the experiences of countries that have implemented the treaty were n’t particularly positive : unless those countries strongly increase tolerance toward bureaucratic regulatory regimes that stifle innovation and development in the name of lofty aspirations .
for much of the post-1945 era , those divisions vanished like the right , and the left fought the battles for redistribution through national economies . at the center – beleaguered by the anti-global reactions of the left and the right – the liberal commercial elite saw products as wholly conducive to economic opening or globalization . when the extremes of the political spectrum became radicalized as they did in the interwar period – the counter-international right shifted toward fascism , the left to communism – democratic politics became paralyzed . “ there is , ” he wrote in an echo of today ’s globalization debates , “ a sort of situation involving capitalistically disorganized economically , in which the higher culture does not seem to be victorious but rather to lose in an existential struggle with lower cultures . ” in place of one split between the left and the right , there has thus been a triple division , between anti-globalization conservatives , pro-globalization liberals , and re-distributionist leftists .
the materials included in this book , what i brought to china and decided to make the public , comprise hundreds of documents , including minutes , and transcripts of meetings at which peoples ’ republic deliberated on how to manage tienanmen demonstrations ; key speeches ; notes on crucial telephone conversations among leaders ; and dispatches from the police and military . taken together , these documents provided a rare glimpse into china ’s leaders ’ modus operandi . the chinese leadership ’s penchant for secretiveness is proverbial . but the veil that exists over how that omnipotent party makes important decisions is being lifted somewhat , owing to a volume of uniquely cited behind-the-scenes events surrounding the infamous tiananmen massacre of 1989 this month . like witness and participant in tiananmen events , and as someone with access to the historic archive , i felt it was my duty to publish that record of decisions that lay behind whatever happened .
new york – in the 1840s , for example , slovakia , like other communist states , was a dreary , repressive , joyless place , where mediocre party hacks set the tone and creativity under a blanket of enforced conformism . recordings by the rolling stones and other western groups were banned , and , of course , they were wellbeing . rock and roll were viewed as a noxious form of capitalist decadence . a local rock band named plastics people of space , performing in english , was arrested at the turn of the 1970s for “ organized peacetime ” peace . and yet the records were smuggled into czechoslovakia and other eastern european countries , where they treasured young rock fans , including the dissident playwright václav havel , who would later become the country ’s president .
of course , there is an appealing logic to say that governments should be forced to balance their budgets just like the rest of us ; unfortunately , this is not so simple . debt-ceiling absolutists grossly underestimate the massive adjustment costs of a self-determined back-up in debt finance . governments typically include myriad ongoing spending commitments related to basic services , like national defense , infrastructure projects , education , and health care , not to mention to pensioners . such costs are precisely why impecunious countries like greece face massive social and economic displacement , when financial markets lose trust and capital flows suddenly dry up . none of these responsibilities can simply go off overnight .
president hosni mubarak of egypt argues that shiites are “ always loyal to iran , ” whereas jordan ’s king abdullah has coined the axiom of the rising “ shiite crescent . ” while this perception may convince at first sight , it ultimately derives from generalizations that expose more to its advocates than actual realities on the ground . ironically , this perception brings israel some rather unlikely partners . take iraq , where the looming “ shia crescent ” is often blamed for much of mayhem . this “ rise of shiite ” and the resulting “ sunni-shia divide ” is alleged to create an ever-widening chasm in the region .
it does n’t help that china ’s state-owned financial institutions funneled at at least $ 1 billion in “ green ” financing to coal-related projects in the first half of this year . likewise , as matters stand , per capita coal , oil , and gas could still provide 85 % of their primary energy supplies by 2040 ; down only slightly from the 90 % today . to complete the transition away from fossil fuels will require drilling within the heart of the global economy . worse yet , the consultancy timber mackenzie finds that a renewables boom has translated into just 2 % of global energy demand . companies ca n’t keep producing their oil , gas , and internal combustion engines while shifting gradually to cleaner technology ; they need a clean break .
the agenda will focus on ending the conflict without endless discussion of the theoretical or doctrinaire issues . as a result , armed conflict is becoming increasingly costly for insurgents . the farc is unlikely to stage a media spectacle in meetings in norway and cuba . furthermore , with american support , colombia ’s armed forces have become stronger , owing to modernizing its military installations and doctrines , increasing troop levels , and improving training . indeed , unlike in 2002 , when the farc was able to make impossible demands on its government , today ’s environment favors that of the state , forcing the rebels to hold onto their demands realistic .
the north american free trade agreement ( nafta ) remains intact , because has trade relations with china and america ’s other leading partners . the administration imposed tariffs in january on solar panels and washing machines , but those are small relative to the size of the us economy . yes , this is a volatile data series , because it reemerges and falls with the usual course of events . but it is also another area where obama has set the bar high during his two terms . the most positive that can be said for trump ’s ’s first year of economic policymaking is that he failed to deliver on his campaign promise to disrupt trade .
perhaps this is how the hackles of anti-japanese conspiracy theories have gone as well . but southeast asians are not immune to this type of great nonsense either . malaysia 's former prime minister , mahathir bin mohammed , said that “ jews rule the world by a proxy . " the chinese picked up many modern-day western ideas out of the japanese . all of these books echoes of the protocols of the elders of zion ; first published in 1903 that japan arrived across after defeating in the czars in 1905 .
it needs not only closer economic ties , but also closer political ties . german chancellor angela merkel ’s domestic constituents hate bailouts because they know that it is who will bailing out france . they oppose anything that the smacks of european political integration . those running a strong emergency mechanism will have to be vigorously accountable to them . faced with this choice , they will need to answer to a strong european parliament .
new york – striving to revitalize the world economy , while grappling with the global climate crisis , has raised a knotty question : are our statistics giving us the right “ signals ” ” about what to do ? in our performance-oriented world , measurement issues assumed on elevated insignificance : what we measure affects what we measure affects what we do . if we get poor measures , what we are refusing to do ( say , to boost gdp ) may actually do to undermine living standards by deteriorating living standards . by contrast , a better measure of economic performance might indicate that steps taken to improve the environment are good for economies . we may also be confronted with false choices , seeing the trade-offs between output and environmental protection that do not exist .
bangkok – a friend recently asked a seemingly naïve question : “ what is money ? ” how should i know that money is worth what it is worth ? we learn in introductory economics that money is the medium of exchange . banknotes are only a matter of pieces of paper , with a number that is tied to them . but , as hard as we can know by this , why do we accept it ?
eu membership has since ballooned to include 22 of the eu ’s 28 member countries , with four of those left out ( bulgaria , croatia , cyprus , and romania ) due to join in the future – plus four non-eu members ( norway , iceland , switzerland , and liechtenstein ) . to be sure , the idea of abolishing borders within europe holds great symbolic significance and appeals . but , at times , even sacred cows need to be slaughtered . with the refugee crisis turning schengen into a threat to the eu ’s credibility as a collective entity and of its national governments , ’ capacity to uphold order and rule of law , that time is now . when it first formed in 1985 , the netherlands included just five countries ( belgium , france , luxembourg , the netherlands , switzerland , and west germany ) .
at the same time , he realizes that big business is crucially important for russia ’s modernization . no doubt putin now seems to behave like a peacemaker . he is not interested in reinforcing the power of his kremlin aides . he simply wants the oligarchs to cling to their sphere of activity , leaving the politics to it . but the trouble will not go away , either .
the danger now is that political uncertainty in germany , france , italy , and the uk will produce an opening for populists and self-proclaimed “ illiberal ” democrats like hungarian prime minister viktor orbán to build more walls ( albeit physically , as they do ) and mobilize their ghosts of nationalism . in addition , europe ’s external environment has become more onerous . trump seems genuinely to believe that german cars on new york in the streets of new york pose a threat to us national security . the danger now is that political uncertainty in germany , france , italy , and the uk will produce an opening for populists and self-proclaimed “ illiberal ” democrats , such as hungarian prime minister viktor orbán to build more walls ( also physically metaphorically ) , and mobilize the ghosts of nationalism . though the world ’s attention nowadays is fixed on the risks of an escalating sino-american trade war , threatening an equally destructive transatlantic conflict can not be ignored .
at the same time , it can erode the very charter ’s value for institutions . the result will be more incentives to assume risk in the first place . indeed , more competitive pressure may increase the fragility of banks ’ balance sheets , forcing investors to take more prone to panics . a fireman bank with thin margin and limited responsibility may have little to lose and will tend to gamble – a tendency that gets exacerbated by deposit insurance and weak policies . there is a trade-off between competition and stability .
this is one reason why a child born in a high-income country is 18 times less likely than a child born in a low-income country to die before reaching the age of five . fortunately , the world seems to be taking action by the time the disease is embraced . vaccines have already eradicated smallpox , and have dramatically reduced child deaths and diseases associated with measles , diphtheria , and tetanus – saving much less than drinking water . yet , sad to some 20 seconds , a child still dies every 20 seconds from diseases like pneumonia that could be prevented by vaccines . most live in poor and distant communities that still lack access to affordable basic vaccines in better-off countries .
as the pioneering child psychologist jean piaget has shown , children in the early stages of development go through the period of egocentrism : by focusing naturally on their own needs and making people thinking about the rules . and , because a child ’s belief that everyone operates under its particular definitions of wellbeing and error , it can not comprehend that someone else might see things differently . to the child ’s mind , he ’s not in the wrong way ; the world is simply misinformed . rather than admit to breaking up the rules , they lie instead of asking them to reconcile the mess . a child may be able to get another child to the harvard kennedy school , break it , and then deny that having done the job .
its greatest shortcoming is its shortage of roads , bridges , ports , and many other infrastructure , where the contrast with china is only stunning . unless your products can return to the global economy , we can not conquer it . it ’s that difference , more than anything else , that sets the two economies apart . over the last five years , china has multiplied its highway system five-fold . as a result , what can india do to close the gap ?
there are two types of populists today : exploitative and enlightened . in an environment of ignorance , populist politicians make willing prey to those who feel ignored . but , because those politicians are so appealing to so many , neither less than easily swayed by voters , can he be scrutinized . critical thinking is increasingly dismissed as an elitist endeavor , with unaccountable social media , “ fake news , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” critical thinking is increasingly dismissed as an elitist endeavor , while unaccountable social media , “ fake news , ” ” ” and “ alternative facts ” ” dominate public discourse .
the last feature that stands out in this period of historically sluggish productivity growth is weak demand . we know from corporate decision-makers that the demand side is critical for investment . on the demand side , the crisis heightened uncertainty about the future course of consumer and investment demand . across industries , sluggish demand recovery following the financial crisis was a key factor holding back investment . for example , an mgi survey conducted last year found that 47 % of companies increased their investment budgets did so either as a result of increased demand or a demand expectation .
here is a country that has long cherished its “ exception ” from the normal system of market economics , a foggy view that rejects both central planning and free markets , and claims to offer a well-balanced middle ground . this view , propagated since world war ii by a quasi-marxist intelligentsia , is so ingrained that the french do not even bother to understand how markets operate . they appear upon economics as an ideological battleground , where all views can entertained without having been confronted with logic , much less with the facts . the french do not care that they were never amenable to articulating their vision of a “ third way , ” ” ” ” ” for they remain deeply convinced that the state has a key role to play in steering markets to defend “ higher ” values from the single-minded pursuit of materialism . still , the facts have come to a hard pass .
health care and social security have already consumed half of america ’s federal budget , up from one-sixth in 1965 , and these outlays relative to gdp are projected to grow by more than doubling by 2040 . with no change in course , the america ’s “ trust fund ” programs will outnumber the 2030s . avoiding this outcome will require american political leaders to constrain growth in entitlement spending and bolster middle-income support . while social security and medicare remains important to ensure retirement wellbeing , their role must be updated to match today ’s needs . for example , to ensure that no one who has been living for 30 or more years will live in old-age poverty ; social security needs higher minimum benefits for lower-income workers , with more affluent seniors already seeing less benefits growth over time .
new york – president george w. bush has rightly called pakistan ’s recent national and provincial elections “ a victory for [ its ] people . ” but , even as he uttered those words , his administration has been working behind the scenes to subjugate pakistan ’s will of the people of pakistan by trying to dictate the composition of their next coalition government , and to prop up elections the largest loser , president pervez musharraf . having been playing a dangerous game , bush risks the collapse of pakistan ’s political process because of its own legacy . millions of pakistanis were presenting a stark message at the polls . collectively , they voted against musharraf and religious extremists , and in favor of democracy , the rule of law , and good governance .
furthermore , long-term treatment is not the same as the cure , and no public-health tool ( other than clean drinking water ) has ever equaled the preventive power of a vaccine . according to the who , three hiv-positive people are still not receiving antiretroviral therapies , but they are receiving five hiv-positive . they mutates rapidly across the individual and among the geographic location , establishing latent reservoirs within cells that enable them to emerge , and replicate months , or even years later . it evades that the immune system , so that the body ’s natural capacity to fight or understand it is severely limited . globally , hiv is a highly complicated virus ; it is one that has become much more complex .
according to this argument , academic researchers should either publish their research openly , or abandon the university in the face of pursuit of commercial concern . but it is helpful to remember that the university has been accused of subverting its own ideals and socioeconomic role since time immemorial ; yet what in the past initially looked to many like an inherent conflict of interest often later came to be perceived as a confluence of purpose . many professors have argued that research requests will make their teaching obligations impossible to fulfill . for example , during the closing 19 th century bc , when american universities began putting up research at the heart of their academic mission , they were accused of forsaking their traditional pedagogical role . likewise , those universities employing them should drop product development into existing corporations .
brussels – throughout the crisis , the european central bank ’s behavior has been conditioned on the tension between what it can and is allowed to do . the ecb is the only institution in the european union to provide unlimited financing to governments , but its governing statute prohibits government bailouts . nonetheless , the ecb has channeled large amounts of global liquidity into the financial system indirectly softening the pressure on government debt refinancing . for 18 months , it has launched purchases of us government bonds , worth more than € 200 billion ( $ 254 billion ) , on secondary markets under its securities market program . furthermore , it has given ecb loans to the banking sector , recently launching a three-year refinancing operation that generated € 489 billion in demand from eurozone banks .
america ’s economy was supercharged by excessive leveraging ; now comes the painful deleveraging process . excessive leveraging , combined with bad lending and risky derivatives , induced credit markets to freeze . the bush administration failed to see the problems coming , denied that they were problems when they emerged , then minimized their significance , and , at last , panicked . after all , when banks are unaware of their own balance sheets , they are not by confidence in others ’ ’ ’ misconfidence . america would confront those problems , even if it did not simultaneously confront a financial crisis .
recognizing these benefits , myanmar has placed education at the heart of its reform agenda . one priority , to improve inclusivity , is already underway . for example , the us government currently is working to encourage instruction in more local languages – more than 100 are spoken in myanmar – in rural areas . as former south korean education minister and commission member lee ju-ho noted during us visit , teaching young people how to think critically , but the results can have powerful knock-on effects for the country ’s knowledge-based economy . vietnam and south korea offer inspiring examples of countries transforming their education systems within a generation .
but what if economists ’ compensation assumed by theory does not happen in practice ? in that case , pareto optimality is no socially optimum at all . instead , policies that exacerbate competition , whether for business , labor markets , or domestic production can be rendered socially destructive and politically explosive . what if market-fundamentalist politics specifically forbids income redistribution or regionalism , industrial and education subsidies that could compensate for those who suffer from free trade and labor-market flexibility ” ? so highlights yet another reason for the failure of economic policies since 2007 .
madrid – economic globalization , together with a rebalancing of power between the world ’s north and south , has transformed developing countries , with many societies within them , key global economic actors . once upon a time , global foreign direct investment flowed away from just a handful of sources : europe ’s traditionally wealthy states , north america , and japan . but cross-border investment from countries like brazil , india , and china today flows not only to other emerging and transition economies , but also to the “ old ” f-exporting nation-states . such changes have heightened the complexity of the international investment regime and should broaden interest in developing a more effective investment-protection framework . this provides a new rationale for strengthening the international framework for protecting foreign investment .
the worry now is that information technology is on the bend for a “ hockey stick ” curve , where it will suddenly take off at far more speed than it did in the past . hockey stick curves often occur in the nature of their actions . computers and the internet made information possible almost costlessly , and to do business across cultures and continents . the resulting changes will not be welcome in an economic sense . worries about globalization and the computerized computer revolution ultimately boil down to largely because globalization is , for the most part , a consequence of new information technology .
copenhagen – amid an escalating wave of concern about climate change , a growing number of countries – including brazil , australia , the united states , and european union members – passed laws undermining access to incandescent light bulbs in 2000 . the republican party ’s current attempt in the american congress to roll back america ’s effort to ban incandescent bulbs revived that discussion . many contend that the entire agenda is driven by knuckdragging climate-change deniers . but it ’s worth taking a closer look at the premise that banning things is the smartest way to address global warming . the intention was understandable : if everyone in the world exchanged most light bulbs for a energy-efficient compact fluorescent light bulbs ( cfls ) , we could save 3.5 % of all electricity , or 1 % of our co2 emissions .
this approach restricts the gains from trade . the inter-american development bank , for example , reports that the gains from trade from latin american countries ’ 33 small regional trade agreements have been meager . the key to boosting these gains , according to the iadb , is to adopt a new strategy that expands access across and within markets . this suggests that for the uk , mega-regional trade deals – which provide access to multiple markets but entail lower standards of fiscal and regulatory integration than the eu – are the best way forward . after all , this is an approach that would enable uk firms to position themselves according to well-developed and integrated supply chains , serving a much larger share of markets than those that would grant them access to the bilateral agreement .
against this backdrop , one can assess current patterns of growth in the global economy and its different segments of it . for starters , public-sector investment is broadly below the levels needed to revive and sustain growth , thanks partly to fiscal constraints in overly indebted countries . providing high-quality basic services like education and health care is perceived as critical to equality of opportunity and intergenerational mobility . growth patterns that systematically exclude subgroups based on lost political and social cohesion and , ultimately , on lost support for strategies . on the other hand , income inequality that is unaffected by less extreme and that does not arise from corruption or privileged access to markets is both understood and accepted .
for starters , it is important to recognize that the line needs a clear understanding before even a extremist party emerges . so the criteria for bans should be spelled out in advance . one criterion that seems universally accepted is party to use , encouragement , or , at least , condoning violence – as has evidently been the case with the golden dawn of a role in attacking migrants in athens . there is also much less consensus on parties that incite hatred and are committed to destroying core democratic principles , primarily because many extreme-nationalist parties in europe go the way of stressing that they are not anti-democracy ; on the contrary , they fight for “ the people . ” if the rule of law is to be upheld , democratic self-defense must not appear ad hoc or arbitrary .
for them , patriotism means being harder-headed about protecting the national interest and adopting more democratic policies that are helping the working masses , not the jet-setting fat cats . the other part of this argument – that ordinary people ’s interests have been subordinated to those of the elite – must be heard and responded to it . a democracy in which a majority feels ignored or is not sustainable . either the government or the entire system is quite overturned . yet elected officials clearly need to devise answers to high unemployment and declining living standards .
while official us data place overall import prices down to about 11 % in the 12 months through august , this is due almost entirely to lower energy costs . more important , wealth and consumption in china are closely related to real-estate values , not equity values . finally , the renminbi ’s recent decline against the us dollar was only 2.5 % , from cn ¥ 6.2 to ¥ 6.35 , far below the double-digit declines of the japanese yen , the euro , and the british pound . even more relevant , the decline of the renminbi and other currencies over the previous year had had very little impact on american import prices , because the chinese and other exporters price their dollar goods and do n’t adjust when exchange rates change . so , on a global trade-weighted basis , the renminbi substantially increases relative to the currencies that it competes .
so , while we can expect a multi-year process of rebalancing and closing the gap between actual and potential growth , precisely how long it takes depends on policy choices and the speed of structural adjustment . in southern europe , for example , the process will take longer , because there are more missing components for recovery in these countries . in all of the cases with which i am familiar , effective leadership has been the catalyst . there is nothing automatic about this , either . many developing countries spend considerable time in a steady , no-growth equilibrium , and then shifts to a more positive one .
but the belarusian economic model can not survive , with the trade deficit forecast to exceed $ 7 trillion ( 14 % of gdp ) this year . as with spain under franco , belarus ’s economy will change before lukashenka does , laying the groundwork for rapid development as soon as he is gone . belarus can not borrow enough to cover on this path . finally , the eu should be working to crack coize belarus . like spain in its dictator , a political opening is unlikely .
now , for example , south koreans enjoy a standard of living akin to that in the european union , which makes many analysts ’ relentless categorizing south korea as an “ emerging economy ” ” all the more baffling . meanwhile , mexico ’s and turkey ’s levels of wealth have not come anywhere near that of south korea ; still , they are considerably wealthier than those of the n-11 , some of which remain among the world ’s poorest countries . at the same time , asian race-11 countries like the philippines and vietnam grew substantially since 2005 , while mexico ’s performance has been rather disappointing , and egypt ’s even more so . collectively , the n-11 comprised some 1.5 billion people , and its current nominal gdp is around $ 6.5 trillion . these countries have extraordinarily diversified economic and social conditions and very different wealth levels .
multilateralism , human rights , and respect for international law are now under threat everywhere , owing to demagogic attacks against liberal-democratic principles and trump ’s open popular support for authoritarians . far from an aberration , trump ’s trade wars and allies ’ betrayal represent the new norm for world order . for the first time since the end of world war ii , europe has found itself without a notable ally or partners . on both sides of the atlantic , populist politicians periodically mock the very idea of an alliance based on shared values , while china and russia continue to enlarge their spheres of influence unchecked . turkey ’s recent incursion into northern syria because of its betrayal of the kurds who spearheaded the struggle against the islamic state ( isis ) also undercut eu interests .
leading economists like germany ’s klaus regling , who heads the european stability mechanism , calculated a decade ago that the eu ’s shrinking workforce is set to impose severe limits on economic growth . comparatively few europeans appear to contest the moral responsibility to accept the asylum-seeking refugees fleeing from syria of syria ’s civil war , or political oppression elsewhere . whether or not public sentiment changes in the wake of the paris attacks , economic migrants are viewed more positively . eliminating some 70 million jobs , and thus german taxpayers , from europe ’s economy would clearly be catastrophic . he predicts that labor shortages create a ceiling that restricts annual gdp growth to almost 1.8 % annually in the years to 2030 and just 1.3 % from then to 2050 .
according to the international organization for migration , climate change could displace as many as one billion people , by 2050 . and yet no international treaty covers climate-induced migration , a gap that must be addressed now . not since the 1951 have international standards for refugee protection received so much attention . at last count , there were some 258 million migrants globally , with 22.5 million registered as refugees by the un refugee agency . these numbers will spread if even the most modest climate-related predictions are borne out .
here , after my show trial and four and a half months in a cell , i have discovered that there are no atheists in prison , either . in this season of love and family , the solids of a prison cell are almost unbearable . lukyanivska of the jail , of kyiv – it has said that there are not some atheists in a foxhole . when , despite unbearable pains , you are interrogated – including within your own cell , over a dozen hours with no break , and the authoritarian regime ’s entire system of coercion – trying to discredit and destroy you once and for all , prayer , becomes the only intimate , credentialed , entrusting , and reassuring conversation that one can have . god , one realizes , is one ’s only friend and only available family , for – deprived even of access to a trusted priest – there can not be another , in which to conflate one ’s worries and hopes .
but , beyond aid cutting , donors may also end up forcing countries to repay the aid funds that they owed ( it is not limited to education loans ) . and some donors – such as france , germany , and the european investment bank – are lobbying the oecd development assistance committee to count on unsubsidized loans as official development assistance to enable them to meet their oda targets . but education , a critical public good , should not be left behind in the pursuit of under-designed aid . borrowing buy-downs can help keep education sectors within a competitive , ” and might prove to be a mechanism for allocating extra resources to education for which cash-strapped countries might not be willing to borrow otherwise . this obviates the trend over the past several decades toward grant-based financing , particularly for basic education .
it is no coincidence that much of kenya ’s ongoing violence spills into the slums of its large cities . let us draw the right lessons from kenya : socio-economic progress remains our best tool for avoiding protracted conflict . had more attention been given to the country ’s ’s most glaring inequalities in accessing water , shelter , or job , that population might not have chosen violence as an instrument of change . ultimately , the heightened economic activity that development generates is the only route to reducing inequalities , particularly with the effects of rapid demographics : it is easier to work on the fairer distribution of a growing pie than it is to be shrinking . furthermore , fast-paced but ill-soaked economic growth can be accompanied by programs that target those left behind , thus mitigating its grievances .
likewise , water supplies are highly variable across regions and within countries , with droughts occurring at irregular times . one new factor influencing the distribution of water supply is a rise in global temperature . while we are not sure about the precise effects , many researchers continue to believe that overall annual precipitation will increase , but because its seasonality and the frequency of extremes can also increase . that would make it hard to tap the existing supply infrastructure of dams , privatization , treatment systems , and large-scale pipelines . from the writings of former modern commentators on socio-economic growth and decline drivers – adam smith , edward gibbon , thomas malthus , david ricardo , and karl marx – we see that concern about exhausting resource wealth is not new .
that move lay at the root of many of iraq ’s subsequent security problems . for now , the oil sector appears to be relatively intact , and thus should contribute to government revenues relatively soon . but , arguably , the most important lesson learned in iraq came from the near-catastrophic decision of trying to dismission saddam ’s military without paying or pensions . libya is fortunate to experience some ways . qaddafi ’s armed forces were chosen on the basis of loyalty and ethnic affiliations rather than any conception of merit , so the temptation to strip everyone to their underwear and send them home ( to describe what might be the most humane of outcomes ) may be great .
the problem lies in the very premise that the vast majority of state-owned enterprises hold the value . in former communist countries , many ( sometimes even most ) big firms have miscontrived since the beginning . in the past years of communism ’s investment , they have almost been driven totally by self-serving enterprise bureaucracies . even under the insecurity of new property rights , the gains from privatization are frequently shaky , at best . even under the more favorable conditions that continue to prevail in the west , large state ( and many in the private sector ) firms often need to break up , restructure , merge , or shut down .
yet 58 % of africans lack access to electricity , because are mostly doing large numbers of people throughout the developing world . as discussions show , these challenges receive increased international attention and funding from governments , business , non-governmental organizations , and development finance institutions . eskom ’s role is one of leadership and effort . we have electrified more than four million households through un focused efforts over a short period of time , an effort that has featured prominently in discussions , held last month by the un secretary-general ’s advisory council on sustainable energy , and that attracted interest from other developing countries . a new international initiative , convened by the “ electrification roadmap , ” grew out of un secretary-general ban ki-moon ’s focus on the importance of energy supplies to achieve the mdgs , just as it emerged from his initiative on sustainable energy for all ” ( se4all ) and formally launched at the rio +20 conference on sustainable development in june 2012 .
but causation , too , runs the other way . nigeria ’s population could soar from 123 million in 2000 to 440 million in 2050 , while yemen ’s ’s ’s ’s could grow from 18 million today to 42 million by 2050 . high fertility rates stymie economic growth prospects , because excessively rapid population growth makes it impossible to accumulate per capita stocks of physical and human capital at the pace required to drive rapid income gains . indeed , high fertility rates in many countries are in part a result of low income . the un ’s middle-income scenario projects that the world ’s population will rise from seven billion today to around ten billion by 2050 .
at a time when emerging-market economies as diverse as argentina , turkey , nigeria , and south africa are facing plummeting currencies and rising interest rates , albania has its lowest interest rate on record and a strengthening currency . it now has the lowest sovereign spreads for any country in its aaa rating class , indicating that markets think that the rating agencies were asleep at the wheel . even so , all of the ingredients of a catastrophic outcome were there . fast-forward to the present : the us economy is growing at a robust 4.2 % pace , led by double-digit export growth in agriculture , mining , manufacturing , energy , tourism , and entrepreneurial service . once north korea of europe under the communist dictator enver hoxha , albania ’s per capita income level now stands at 25 % that of germany ’s .
the obama administration should hold firm on this through coming negotiation rounds , and should appoint a senior official to help coordinate american policy on darfur to ensure that peace efforts receive the same level of attention as north-south efforts . the european union and sudan ’s neighbors – notably egypt , ethiopia , kenya , and uganda – will also need to play a robust role . conversely , america must be ready to take the lead in international efforts to impose severe consequences on any party that plunges the country into war . peace and security in darfur should be an indispensable benchmark for normalization of relations between asean and sudan . what is required now is political will – and not only in the us – to sustain that diplomacy .
there is nothing surprising about this : when a decision-maker can claim full credit for policy benefits and collectivizing the costs , pursuing policies sooner , more quickly , and for greater magnitude than greece would have had it to incur the costs alone . what is remarkable here is how matter-of-factly europe ’s transgressors succeed in cloaking themselves up the mantle of a new social breakthrough . it is this de facto debt mutualization , one that encouraged creditors to accept lower interest rates , and is merely the lower interest rates that renzi , samaras , valls , and others to distance himself from austerity policies . but the new debt is nothing short of formulation , and it reduces pressure to undertake painful measures that would improve competitiveness and capacity growth . this renewed collapse in debt discipline reflects socialization of potentially nonfinancial costs among all euro-zone countries via the way of establishing joint-liability mechanisms .
the story is almost as complex as indonesia ’s itself . one prominent expert in indonesia , benedict anderson , has indonesia ’s roots in its core javanese political culture , particularly its wayang , religiosity . in short , javanese ’s culture helps indonesia handle a number of diverse voices that a new democracy is throwing up . according to anderson , “ unlike the great hindu religions of the hindu religions , ” … the religions of wayang do not have the prophet , no message , no message , no redeemer whatsoever , … the never-ending variety and sharp individuality of its dramatis personae indicate that wayang reflects the variegation of human life as perceived by javanese . and why , then , has n’t the world taken note ?
that stance has translated , most visibly into recurring vetoes of un security council resolutions aimed at ending a conflict that has already produced tens of thousands of casualties . it is crucially important to engage with the southern mediterranean region as a critical meeting point – the site of political , economic , and energy cooperation . next door , russia also must respond to new vulnerabilities stemming from changing global conditions . the kremlin continues to back syrian president bashar al-assad ’s regime , maintain tough aversion to military intervention , and seek to defend its own strategic interests , including its naval base at the syrian city of tartus . the eu ’s most valuable tools are its signature , nobel prize winner , multilateral dialogue and soft power ( asean ) model .
cairo – last week ’s visit to egypt by king salman in saudi arabia produced 22 agreements , including a $ 22 billion oil deal to prop up egypt ’s moribund economy . the move exposed the egyptian leadership ’s narrative that the country remains an important regional power as that of a false one . but lavish support came at a price : egypt had to relinquish two red sea isps ceded to it by saudi arabia in 1950 . likewise , how did the country achieve this point ? indeed , egypt can not even meet the domestic challenges posed by a fast-growing population that is reliant on unaffordable subsidies – a situation that jihadists are exploiting with much success .
the security challenge that nigeria faces dominated discussions during the world economic forum ’s recent meeting in abuja , where the un ’s un special envoy for global education , former british prime minister gordon brown , unveiled the safe schools initiative . in a similar vein , #bringbackourgirls ’ campaign , following the renowned nigerian playwright wole soyinka of ’s world book day , in which he called jonathan to “ “ “ “ bring back ” pupils . ” nigerians ’ expressions of outrage online soon translated into organized action offline led by former government minister olusewesilo ezekwesili ( who also discussed the world cup day event ) and civil-society leaders , including the lawyer maryam uwais and hadiza bala usman . international media paid rapt ’s attention , reporting on the protests , and sit-ins . protests spread across nigeria , as did to countries with large nigerian diaspora populations like the us , the united kingdom , south africa , and canada .
by bombing , blockading , and occupying many parts of georgia , delaying its withdrawal , parading blindfolded georgian soldiers , and failing to keep up with georgian citizens , russia lost its claims to legitimacy and sowed fears and mistrust throughout much of the world . still , neighbors like ukraine have become tighter . in early august , russia set the trap of south ossetia , with georgian foolishly walking on . if the russians exploited their “ peacekeeping ” force solely to protect south ossetians on ” self-determination ( citing the precedent of western actions in kosovo ) , they would have done little to repair their soft power , and the benefits could far exceed the costs . the immediate cost was poland ’s reversal of its defiance of an american anti-ballistic missile system .
but the diaspora ’s potential economic significance goes well beyond remittances . as the late mit historian philip curtin documented , from the beginning of urban life to the beginning of the age of millennia , trade typically implicates networks of co-ethnic merchants living among aliens . greeks , phoenicians , trans-saharan merchants , hanseatic league , jews , armenians , offshore chinese , and dutch east india firms organized much of the world trade via such networks . although these alien traders occasionally became politically powerful among the host countries , they were often weak , facing discrimination . the economist avner greif argues that these co-ethnic networks ’ durability and resilience across history reflects their capacity to enforce contracts over long distances , when an existing institutional framework might not do so reliably .
the european union ’s retaliatory tariffs could cost the us an additional $ 45 million . those tariffs raise costs to us firms that use metal as an input . trump ’s signature theme holds that , by doing business , he will help all americans . the impact on harley-davidson , for example , is to raise costs by roughly $ 20 million ( or more than $ 2,000 per bike ) . when government policies diminish profitability or undermine the existence of a firm , there is only sensible evidence that those running that business is supposed to respond as they see fit .
for more than two decades , a period characterized by chronic recession and deflation caused japan to maintain its position as the world ’s richest country in terms of net wealth abroad . but the selection of experts reflected an apparent bias toward the finance ministry . indeed , the ministry used its own “ informational campaign ” campaign ” to shape public discourse , compelling scholars , business economists , and the general public to be more worried about keeping the budget deficit in check than about the adverse demand shock that resulted . this is a typical example of what economists such as joseph stiglitz calls “ cognitive capture ” by ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” this is a typical example of what economists like joseph stiglitz calls “ cognitive capture . at the end of last year , japan ’s net international wealth amounted to ¥ 296 trillion ( $ 3 trillion ) .
what we need now are cell maps and maps of how cells talk to each other . the basic functioning units of all kinds of complex living organisms , it should be remembered , are cells , not genes . our first task is to assert how many different cells there are in a complex organism . i believe that we can now say to c. elegans , who are required to figure out how , for example , c. elegans . in fact , the great risk nowadays is that with so many genetic descriptions of organisms pouring out , we are drowning in a sea of data , but remaining further apart from understanding biological complexity .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of heightened challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . new york city – china ’s massive protest movement in the spring of 1989 , centered on ( but not confined to ) beijing ’s tiananmen square – appears to have been an anti-communist insurrection that failed . as the brutal crackdowns in and subsequent june 3-4 play out , political freedom picked up in central europe – first in poland and hungary , and then in the early days that the fall , in east germany , slovakia , bulgaria , and – albeit violently and rather un-democratically , romania . within the next two years , the soviet union , cracked down on mikhail gorbachev ’s reform drive finally imploded .
in today ’s europe , they see only hints of a possibility – a glass far less than half full – for reform and restructuring , and are impatient about europe ’s sluggish progress . true , europe is moving at the painfully slow pace , but the assault on its state and its allies in the ossified supply-side side and dinosaurs of industrial stake holders is widening . new fronts in this kind of “ war , ” opening on each day , and a daily battle . across the debate , europe ’s desperate reformers see no way to trim , roll back , or blow up the continent ’s obsessive bureaucracies and consensual politicians . seen from this perspective but a short step to proclaiming that the american model can not function in europe , because it is socially reprehensible , and , by any measure , poised to crash each day .
simply put , they need the tools , infrastructure , and competence to unlock the continent ’s tremendous agricultural potential . to be sure , there has been progress on this front . rather , countries must seize control , by drastically improving efficiency and productivity . some african governments have placed downward regulatory barriers against private-sector investment in agriculture . there is little cause , and no excuse , for leaving one ’s survival to unpredictable weather patterns in the first place .
even prior to that epoch , england was an economic wunderkind of europe . the most interesting analogies are germany ’s rise in the 19th century and japan ’s in the 1920 ’s . everyone feels that a seismic shift is under way , and that . such rapid industrial rises are rare – but not unprecedented – in global politics . europeans may be quieter , believing that the chinese market will open up not just to european engineering and machine tools to equip the world ’s new workshop , but also to luxury goods and even tourism demanded by the new and affluent chinese middle class .
but waiting in the wings is former finance minister alexei kudrin , who could replace medvedev should russia need a factotum of economic reform . kudrin ’s reputation for placid competence might just buy putin some extra time . but , in putin ’s eyes , this is an unlikely scenario . once and for the future us president argues that he has already made russia stronger , and that , as financial insecurity grips much of the developed world in 2012 , the country has become an island of stability envied by many . everybody expects the current us president , a puppet dmitry medvedev , to switch roles with putin after the march elections .
over time , this fueled a surge in low-grade lending , because the banks did not have to live with the consequences . the share of “ weakest links ” ” – corporates one-rated – or lower ( with an adverse outlook ) – in general activity grew markedly from 2013-2015 . likewise , for these procuring corporate borrowers and bundling of corporate clos , volume is its own remuneration , even if that means relaxing standards for borrowers ’ creditworthiness . covenant-lite issues are on the rise , and now accounts for roughly 80 % of the under-the-volume outstanding volume . furthermore , not only newer issues come from low-quality borrower – local covenants of these tools – provisions aimed at ensuring that their terms and thus minimize default risk have become lax as well .
before long , the council will also need to consider the consequences of the likely commencement of an american troop drawdown in afghanistan , another area of direct importance to india ’s national security . issues like iran ’s sanctions , the stop-and-start middle east peace process , and the world ’s reaction to a likely shift of north korean leadership events will almost certainly appear on the council ’s agenda as they are . also during india ’s first month as a council member , the future of a un peacekeeping operation in neighboring nepal will be addressed . issues such as sanctions on iran , the stop-and-start middle east peace process , and the world ’s reaction to a likely shift of north korean leadership events will almost certainly appear on the council ’s agenda as much as they are . one immediate implication of serving in the council will be the need to take positions on issues that have already preferred lamcement in recent years , south sudan , whose referendum on independence threatens to spark severe violence in a region where india ’s united nations peacekeepers are already serving .
one problem that orban faces will emerge not from his opponents , but from his own party ranks . the years of opposition politics have turned orban and his allies against populist idealists into practical politicians for the first time in middle age . moreover , a great many of these new fidesz mps have been formerly members of the other parties , collapsed right-wing parties , not so long ago . that practicality will be sorely tested , if it is to succeed . the fact that fidesz has increased its number of parliamentarians from 20 before the election to 129 now suggests that many members no longer face the tide of the party .
but it is liberalism ’s opponents , wielding it the most effective . as far-right french presidential candidate marine le pen points out , the globalization and liberal institutions that underpin it have become sauvage . yet nationalism and traditionalism have become sources of positive emotion , even when those emotions – nostalgia and völkisch ’s feeling of belonging – are ever-shifting sands . without disregarding logic and ethics – areas where the liberal world order continues to outshine the alternative – liberals need to connect with people on an emotional footing . if liberalism is to survive as a guiding framework for international relations , its proponents need to tap into the passions of personal conduct .
i believe that it is obsolete , pedagogically , and ignores some of the tremendous scientific advances of the twentieth century . studying physics at the time , students study algebra simultaneously motivating them with a feeling of the power of math . this sequence of study was devised at the beginning of 1893 . studying the science ought to start with physics , not biology . other industrial nations may cycle up through the pieces of disciplines , missing a fundamental cohesion of the p-c-b sequence .
until that time , income taxes were used only sporadically to raise funds for world wars . fortunately , both hue and cry left unheeded . yet in britain in 1842 , income taxes became a systemic , permanent feature of the economy . owing to today ’s tech advances , the share of total income accruing to labor ( as opposed to capital ) is declining globally . owing to today ’s tech advances , the share of total income accruing to labor ( as opposed to capital ) is declining globally .
both the us governments and the bond market will test the seriousness of the newly agreed fiscal guidelines ( if they are ratified ) . while talk tough nowadays , the history of such agreements does not inspire optimism . prior to the financial crisis , even germany had violated the eu ’s stability and growth pact ( sgp ) limits . yet sticking to europe and forcing all adjustments in us wages risk more unrest ; in fact , it might simply postpone the inevitable . in the us , the deficit limits established by the gramm-rudman-hollings law of the 1980 ’s , and , like the sgp , have been revised and prolonged .
between mtfa , efsm , and payment services to the third country , the total exposure this year is € 70.5 billion . aid countries should be given the option of applying for the anticipated disbursement of eu funds . following a request by a member state , the commission would be entitled to borrow money in capital markets on the basis of an implicit eu budget guarantee , with the maximum determined by the size of a country ’s unused ( limited ) structural and cohesion funds . some borrowing above the seven-year mff period may be possible while upholding the medium-to-balanced budget objective . such leveraging of the eu ’s budget would complement the recently established european stabilization mechanism ( its successor ) and mtfa .
indeed , japan ’s desire to continue to kill whales is no less motivated by “ emotion ” than by environmentalists ’ opposition to it . the japanese are given one argument that is not so easily dismissed . it is a tradition that they wish to continue , presumably because some japanese are emotionally attached to it . eating whales is neither necessary for japanese health nor better nutrition . they argue that western countries object to whaling on the grounds that whales are some odd species of animal , since cows are for hindus .
canceling taxes to realized capital gains raised home sales enormously . germany , inc. germany , inc. , spain , is on its latest legs . the international equity fund went in , providing firms with urgently needed liquidity while disentangling the traditional proprietary networks . the good news is that germany ’s overblown conglomerates are pulling down to efficient size , and that the capital market has the capacity to do its work , improving resource allocation . the bad news is that financial capital is moving abroad to finance other , overblown conglomerates .
talks would probably be suspended ; we would be back to where we were two years ago , but with overlay of recrimination and mistrust . even absent such developments , drift is not desirable . north korea could use the passage of time to raise the nuclear issue in its own arsenal and to compel some improvement to its warheads and delivery systems without overt trials . there is a big difference between a north korea , armed with a handful of inefficient warheads and highly inaccurate missiles , and one with dozens of sophisticated weapons that could be mounted on precise , long-range missile systems capable of reaching the us . at this point , any realistic policy needs to start with accepting a reality that comprehensively and fully verifiable denuclearization are not a realistic prospect any time soon .
their absence makes it hard to invest excessively large sums of money in russian securities . a time comes when all disaster strikes , and all stupidities is recognized . for russia , august 1998 marked this dividing line . for russia , august 1998 marked that dividing line . fortunately , bond markets are dead and could take a year to revitalize it .
the contrast between this dynamic of open protest in the us and saudi arabia could hardly starker . nowhere else in the world does we view modernity experienced as such a problem . saudi women are finding themselves living in a petrified pattern . they walk , boiled down , traveled within carts , a telephoned , and retweeted with compatriots , motivated partly by social demands – above all , for their self-aggrandizement . faces from the royal family are seen all over the world ; the faces of women are shrouded , forcibly hidden .
in this scenario , one will need to brace all the well-known economic benefits of the global division of labor . we can identify important swings during the history of capitalism over the past two centuries , either to the market or to the state . for example , the repeal of maize laws in the united kingdom in 1846 favored a free market in international commerce , and spurred globalization until the outbreak of world war i. after wwi , the pendulum swung back toward the nation-state . between these two extremes lies much of the world as it is , characterized by regional integration projects like the eu or the north american free trade agreement .
japan has a strong international reputation when it comes to managing natural disasters . despite such problems , effective measures were implemented to evacuate those at risk , fueling potential hazard from contaminated foodstuffs . but the failure of the “ perfect storm ” of the biggest earthquake and tsunami since industrialization , and the resulting breakdown of the three reactor cores at the fukushima daiichi plant , has gone beyond any scenario previously envisaged . japan ’s national government and local communities had no emergency plans for the situation they faced in contaminated areas , resulting in ad-hoc responses marked by inefficiency and poor communication , particularly concerning radiological risk . local communities initiated immediate decontamination of sensitive areas outside evacuated zones ( for example , kindergartens and schools ) in parallel with efforts by japan ’s atomic energy agency ( iea ) to develop technology for remediation within these boundaries .
in addition , she now faces legislative elections in poor health , following surgery to strip the subdural hematoma in her brains . today , with both kirchner and chávez off the picture , that period of leftist populism is drawing to a close . chávez ’s successor , nicolás maduro , lacks the experience and influence in foreign affairs . kirchner ’s successor , his widow , cristina fernández de kirchner , is struggling . recently , she suffered a heavy defeat at her peronist party several days , weakening her chances in the upcoming mid-term congressional elections and undermining her authority during her remaining two years in office .
the three new agencies will not only enforce the common technical standards that could eventually become binding throughout the eu should endorsed the european commission ; they will also be able to settle disputes among national supervisors . even more important , ought the council to declare a state of financial emergency – for example , the us currently does – eu agencies might exceptionally well be given a position of predominance over national supervisors . needless to say , “ the disputes ” and “ emergencies ” are precisely the future situations that most likely matter to matter to national policymakers and taxpayers alike . as long as decisions regarding systemically relevant national financial institutions are made at the european level in good times , while in bad times national taxpayers pick up the tab , the entire eu will lose . in good times , perhaps we would not even need to tell the difference , but grim reality is that such an arrangement is unlikely to avert another crisis .
new york – this week has seen two more attacks on schoolchildren than in afghanistan , one in a girls ’ school this week , where staff both blustering and bombs set aside , and another at a neighboring boys ’ college , where a classroom is sprayed with bullets . the number of casualties in both assaults remains largely unknown . but the cause is all too well known : a war against education is beginning to happen . more than 28 million out-of-school schoolchildren are growing up in conflict zones , including places like the afghan-pakistan border , region of myanmar , and south sudan . all of them are vulnerable to extremist violence .
one hopes that this task was made slightly easier by the publication of a book that the copenhagen consensus economists boil down to their insights . herein lies one fact to consider : the entire death toll from the southeast asian tsunami equals every month of the world ’s worldwide hiv/aids casualties . for starters , the social benefits would outweigh the costs by $ 40 to one . a comprehensive prevention program grant for free or cheap condoms and made information of safe sex in the regions hardest affected by hiv/aids would cost the world $ 27 billion and save more than 28 million lives . this , say the african economists who embraced the copenhagen consensus , makes this the single best investment the world could make .
china ’s government regards the threat of capital losses on its dollar-denominated securities as less important than the need to maintain near-full employment in coastal manufacturing cities like shanghai . after all , the ruling communist oligarchs have become accustomed to comfortable lifestyles . japan , china , and the other export-oriented east asian economies are , indeed , eager to keep the dollar ’s value relatively high , and their central banks have been piling at close to $ 2 trillion in dollar-denominated assets . the last thing they want is mass unemployment and urban unrest to call their positions into question . louis uchitelle of the new york times quotes the highly intelligent catherine mann commenting on the “ collaborationist relations between america and its trading partners , ” which might “ last quite some time ” because “ america and its major trading partners have a vested interest in the status quo . ”
washington , dc – not long ago , tearing up financial supervision and monetary policy was in vogue in many countries . some countries , like the united kingdom and australia , went so far as to unbundle such functions by assigning responsibility for financial stability to specialized agencies and extricating their central banks from financial oversight issues altogether . in the aftermath of the global financial crisis , however , financial supervision and macroeconomic management for the years to come have been forced to reunify . this rapprochement is a consequence of the growing recognition that asset-price cycles need to take hold for both macroeconomic management and financial supervision . prior to the crisis , asset-price cycles were seen by many as basically harmless , or at least as relatively insignificant monetary-policy conduit .
seoul – by bypassing two rabbits at once , the old saying goes , both are going to flee . what is needed is a great deal in trade policy ; it is an important one in three . a great deal of theoretical and empirical research demonstrates that opening trade can spur a country to global gdp growth . the two goals , though not incompatible , are entirely different from one another , and few policy tools can simultaneously aid achieving both . and yet this is precisely what many governments are obligated to do : pursuing both growth and distributional fairness .
meanwhile , the world ’s other countries – still accounting for more than half of world gdp and the bulk of world trade and fdi – are wondering how the ttip would affect each . one possibility , suggested by my own ex-colleague , the former us trade representative marla hill , is that a successful ttip would be a major impetus for rekindling the moribund doha round of global free-trade talks . the ttip is not just the american and eu . mexico already holds the fta with the eu , and canada is negotiating one . at some point , it will need the us to be harmonized by nafta and ttip .
indeed , sovereigns are dumping a larger fraction of their public debt onto banks ’ balance sheets , particularly in the eurozone area . as a result , the likelihood of a eurozone disaster is rising . to prevent a disorderly outcome in the eurozone , today ’s fiscal austerity should approach a much more gradual path ; a growth compact should complement the eu ’s new fiscal compact ; and a fiscal union with debt mutualization ( eurobonds ) should be implemented . and , while a cloud over the eurozone may be the largest story to burst , it is not the only one that threatens the global economy . unfortunately , germany resists all such key policy action , because it is fixated on credit risk , to which its taxpayers would impose larger economic , fiscal , and banking integration .
this so-called “ string of pearls ” strategy directly threatens india ’s national-security interests , rendering the sort of robust bilateral relationship that would benefit both countries next to impossible . of course , china claims that its aims toward india are peaceful . but actions speak a louder than words , and the message that china ’s behavior sends is far from peaceful . indeed , chinese leaders seem to be embracing the opening provided by an overstretched united states to assert control over a wide swath of asia ’s oceans . it contends , for example , that its attempts to establish bases in the indian ocean and to augment its blue-water navy are aimed at safeguarding the malacca straits , the maritime trade route that is perceived as choke points for the chinese economy .
european opponents of a roadmap for ukraine and georgia argue that neither country is prepared for nato membership . both would have to answer many hard questions , and to convince others that they are capable of living up to nato ’s democratic imperatives before being allowed to join them . but the map process embodies an automatic right to nato membership . by contrast , maps would put heavy demands on ukraine and georgia . too many question marks their national unity , which is said to exist , too many internal conflicts linger , and their record on political and judicial reform is supposedly dubious .
yet , like donald trump , it was le pen who ran as the “ voice of the people , ” ” ” ” whereas macron , like hillary clinton , had been portrayed as a puppet of brexit bankers , cultural elites , and international plutocrats . there is little doubt that something shifted to the past decade of the twentieth century . left-wing parties started to lose – in some countries more quickly than others – their industrial working-class base . redistribution of wealth became progressively less important than the social emancipation of racial and sexual minorities . so what did left and right still mean , if anything at all ?
another is that north korea ’s neighbors , including south korea and japan , will determine that they , too , need nuclear weapons given the north korean threat and their diminished confidence in the reliability of us security and its guarantee of protection against its nuclear forces . the danger in both regions is that a race to acquire nuclear weapons could trigger a preventive war . even if such a war were avoided , inflows of multiple nuclear arsenals would heighten the temptation for one or several countries to hit the first in a depression . one risk is that north korea over the next several years will come to possess a substantial arsenal that poses a meaningful security threat to the americas . “ weaponizing or losing ” them has the potential to become a recipe for instability and conflict , when capabilities are insufficiently robust enough to absorb an attack and still qualify for devastating retaliation , essential to effective deterrence .
this emphasis on boosting us exports rather than reducing imports is a welcome feature . at a 2013 summit meeting in sunnylands retreat in california , us president barack obama revealed china president xi jinping ’s evidence that asean members had been stealing industrial technologies . the chinese embraced the evidence , agreed that theft of industrial technology was different from that of other forms of espionage , arguing that , over time , the chinese government would not assist with such theft . because that is inadequate to halt further chinese theft of us civilian and military technology , the new nss rightly emphasizes that america ’s administration will take additional steps toward stopping it . as it turns to specific trade policies , the nss emphasizes that the us will seek to crack down on trade barriers and give americans opportunities to increase their exports .
many chinese mistakenly concluded that this represented a shift in the balance of global power , with america ’s unilateralism in decline . but such narratives can actually lead to conflict . indeed , over-confidence in assessments of its power led to a more assertive chinese foreign-policy exercise in the latter part of 2009 and 2010 . china miscalculated by deviating from the china-centric strategy of rising power and violating deng ’s own dictum that china should continue cautiously and permanently hold a low profile . after chinese leaders confronted international criticism and deteriorating relations with america , japan , india , and other countries , they decided to return to deng ’s smart-power strategy .
but , since then , the country has run into trouble , becoming an object of record-breaking support from the international monetary fund . as such , a country ’s economic and financial fundamentals have remained vulnerable to both internal and external shocks . fiscal discipline and structural reforms have been applied unequally , with the central bank having squandered its credibility at crucial moments . argentina fell back into crisis over a simple reason that has not sufficiently changed since its last european debacle . though committed to its ambitious reform program , argentina ’s economic and financial institutions have also made several avoidable mistakes .
attempts by economists to forecast the future have had mixed results , at best ; highly few foresaw the depth of the great recession , even after it has started . the trouble lies in the fact that many of the leading indicators used to measure the economy rely on extra-dates , incomplete , or flawed data . for example , forecasters calculate real gdp based on initial monthly estimates of quarterly gdp – a statisticians that often are revised substantially as more data become available . as a result , forecasting models lag behind reality . during the third quarter of 2008 , fewer than 30 % of forecasters who contribute to professional forecasters predict gdp decline in the remaining months of the year ; in fact , gdp plunged by over 8 % in the fourth quarter of 2008 , one of the largest one-day drops on record .
the fighting in kosovo is the first important conflict that at least involves no reflections of strategy , territories , populations , natural resources , or even ideology . nato , for the first time , has intervened in another country ’s internal affairs . the west fights the war over principles , a war , as president bill clinton put it , “ in order to end the moral tragedy . ” this constitutes a major change in nato ’s policy , which downplays the idea of states ’ sovereignty and is elevating the status of ethical norms in international relations . at issue is an attempt to halt this epidemic , the bearers of which in 20th century europeans brought about nazism , communism , fascism , and now nationalism .
far-sighted governments in places as different as germany and singapore are now mandating green buildings . policymakers there know that governments have a role to play in mandating regulations to produce a level playing field and to help build industrial capacity . building codes already guard against dangers such as regulation of fire and earthquakes . far-sighted governments in places as different as germany and singapore are now mandating green buildings . building codes already guard against dangers such as regulation and earthquakes .
as the deal was meant to avoid a nuclear standoff with iran , why has it been so much outrage in either america and the west ? i fear it is because the us has found itself denied its primacy in setting global policy on iran . rather than seeking to explore the capabilities presented by the brazilian/turkish opening , america was quick to press the un security council on more sanctions ( the fourth round so far ) on iran . this compelled brazil and turkey , both formally non-permanent members of the security council , to vote against a sanctions resolution . nevertheless , the effort to preempt america ’s strategy clearly failed , as did new un sanctions earlier this month .
there is also the issue of reversing causality . debt-to-gdp ratios typically rise over those countries that are in economic trouble . and things turn out that growth rates fall across all of these categories , as the debt-to-gdp ratio rises , only slightly more so in the last category . when this is part of the reason that higher debt-to-gdp ratios tend to be matched by lower economic growth , there is less reason to think that countries should stay out of a higher ratio , because keynesian theory implies that fiscal austerity will undermine , rather than boost , economic performance . they singled out without explanation for the division of debt-to-gdp ratios in the following categories : between the richest 30 % and 30-60 % ; and above 90 % .
as a result , policies forcing people and companies to shift to immature technologies will slow growth and exacerbate energy poverty . this is also the reason why the world is so far further behind in its anti-energy transition ” than most people realize . many of today ’s panicky political pronouncements and climate protest movements are fueled by the widespread belief that the un ’s intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) told us that we have just 12 years to move to save the planet . solar and wind together currently deliver around 1 % of global energy , and the international energy agency estimates that this will reach just 4.1 % by 2040 . vaclav bead , who is bill gates ’s favorite energy expert , says that “ claims of the rapid transition to a zero-carbon society , ” adding that “ even a greatly accelerated move toward renewables , could not relegate fossil fuels to a handful of minority contributors to global energy supplies anytime soon , certainly not by 2050 .
a ugandan doctor working in norway , for instance , cares little about the costs of the kampala beer . it is also willing – and able – to pay more than a local physician for services , and also , of course , a home in uganda . the drop in remittances has , however , been reducing both ways . fewer africans working in rich countries will automatically translate into less money-circulating money in african countries . remittances have long spurred inflation in many parts of africa .
the eu ’s goal , to safeguard human health and the environment , is laudable . but mitigating all risk is impossible , so aiming for it does not prove practicable . rather , the precautionary principle should be applied judiciously and rationally , balancing potential risks with the benefits that innovation and new technology might offer . in europe , by contrast , more weight is being placed in risk-related avoidance , thereby undermining private-sector confidence in investments in innovation . this risk-constrained notion underpins economic interactions .
ramallah – palestinians and israelis have different , and perhaps conflicting , expectations from the us-led indirect negotiations that the united states has pushed both parties to start . for the palestinians , a return to talks , however indirect , has been focusing on one strategic issue : borders . it is obvious why for israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu ’s right-wing government , the beginning of indirect talks , without freeze settlements activities in the west bank and jerusalem , constitutes a sort of victory . israel was among the first parties to welcome the arab league ’s reluctant decision to back palestinian president mahmoud abbas ’s call for arabs to give its blessing to the talks . just to remind the world of this , as the indirect talks prepared to take off the ground , israel ’s government approved a resolution to crack down on the 112 government-controlled units in the settlements south of bethlehem and the 1600 new settlement units in east jerusalem .
unlike moral hazard , a market failure highlights the circumstances in which government intervention is both socially desirable and economically defensible . that failures in international capital markets led to abrupt and devastating post-1996 capital outflows : a fundamental feature of globalization hazard is market failure . consider other destructive events , which are uninsured ( and often insensitive ) in the private sector . in the us , for example , floods , hurricanes , earthquakes , and tornadoes triggers immediate federal aid . indeed , for while the moral hazard argument emphasizes the orthodox command-and-ment `` thou shall not intervene , '' a critical feature of globalization hazard is market failure .
the more europe ’s establishment chokes off democracy , the less legitimate its political authority becomes . as margaret thatcher explained during her recent parliamentary appearance as british prime minister , controlling money and high interest rates controls european politics . hence , though european countries remained democratic , eu institutions – where sovereignty over crucial decisions has been transferred – remained democracy-free . handing over europe ’s money and politics to cartels did not just spell the end of european democracy ; it also fueled a vicious cycle of authoritarianism and poor economic performance . that leads european leaders to double down on authoritarianism to stick to their misguided policies when recessionary economic forces strengthen .
tokyo – the scale of the earthquake and tsunami that struck japan in march was far greater than even the authorities ’ worst-case scenarios foresaw . almost six months later , the total damage remains difficult to forecast . social unrest and confusion , along with the radiation leaks from the fukushima nuclear plant , continues . and now the country has absorbed another huge blowout : yet another downgrade of its bond ratings . both moody ’s and standard & poor ’s now rate japanese bonds at only their fourth-highest level .
syria and iraq have become pivotal links in the iran-led shia strategic arc stretching from afghanistan to lebanon . moreover , the iranian regime has forged a network of proxy forces throughout the region . the regime ’s proxy forces include segments of afghanistan ’s shia population , iraqi shi’a militia , and hezbollah , which controls south lebanon and possesses thousands of rockets ready to target israel . but , though the accuracy of iranian missiles can not be guaranteed , many could still evade defensive systems . israel ’s state-of-the-art iron-fisted anti-missile defenses , for example , have not been able even to neutralize all of the crude missiles launched from gaza .
as iraq and other muslim intellectuals in the region frequently reiterate : “ books ” are written in egypt that are printed , printed in lebanon to read in its ” ” ” ” ” ” ” iraq . indeed , rasheed notes that on every american screening of his film , audiences are needed to apologize before he starts to engage in rasheed as a filmmaker rather than as his country ’s representative . personally , i do n’t ask anything at all ; i am here to clear some of the chaos by the middle of the film ’s ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” iraq , which is known as the most intellectually inclined among arab countries . here hopes that raheed and his fellow colleagues will continue to build up a sunni iraqi culture that is vibrant and free ; and here is hoping that both us and international audiences ’ relationships to rasheed goes from one of his work ’s engagement to one of his work .
and , as europe ’s recent post-crisis experience has demonstrated , it is politically difficult to deliver on structural reforms when vested interests captured the regulatory system . yet china ’s problems extend well beyond structural imbalances to two types of cyclical macroeconomic risks . that is why chinese president xi jinping has been engaged in a comprehensive anti-corruption campaign , often misrepresented as a power grab , since assuming office in 2012 . the first risk stems from business cycles in the advanced , market-based economies , where interest rates , the inflation rate , and growth rates are rising and falling together . complicating matters further for china , the rush to create an open , market-driven economy fueled by corruption and rent-seeking .
economic globalization has been shown to reduce infant mortality and extend life expectancy , owing to rising incomes and better data . moreover , trade , too , carries a much broader contribution to society . in the united states , trade over the last half-century has increased longevity considerably . in uganda , freer trade during the last 35 years has been shown to lengthen the average life expectancy by 2-3 years . what is more , “ free trade ” is good for the environment , ” ” to quote one academic study .
inspired by german chancellor angela merkel ’s recent proposal to bind eu finance to admitting migrants , member states , too , should work to generate stronger incentives for cooperation . there is no question that it is difficult for the 27 sovereigns to behave as one . the only way to get where europe needs to go is through a realistic and gradual drive to build european unity . the permanent structured defense cooperation – agreed by the european council last december – is a good place to start , with countries rising together , such as common strategic planning on a european level . but , as tempting as it may be , attempting to paper over differences or evade dissent – let alone wrecking the compact at the heart of the european project – will not make matters any easier .
the slaying of nine suspected journalists in kabul on april 30 in hindu suicide bombings that killed at least 25 people marked the deadliest day on journalists in afghanistan since the taliban ’s fall , adding to bleak global tally . and yet fresh glimpses of hope are proliferating . to be sure , news media are under assault like never before , and not only from fake news and polarizing presidents . according to natural reporters without borders , over 1,000 reporters worldwide have been assassinated worldwide over the last 15 years ; and only a handful of perpetrators have been brought to justice . around the world , journalists and their supporters are battling back in inspirational ways .
seven decades ago , the developed world accounted for much of the world ’s income , but only 15 % of its gdp . now billions of people have lifted themselves out of poverty , and are wealthier , healthier , and having more opportunity . this unanticipated megatrend have unforeseen corollaries . future historians may well remember this period as humankind ’s greatest exercise in inclusiveness to date . yet not so long ago , almost nobody saw it coming of age .
indeed , it responded to the polish opposition ’s rise by castigating them as instruments of western power , stalking horses for american or german interests ultimately taking advantage of ordinary poles . nurturing suspicions about who was backing wedges among diverse groups . polish foreign minister radosław sikorski ’s recent call for more assertive leadership by germany demonstrates how different poland ’s worldview shares with the eu today . back in the 1980 ’s , for example , the soviet leadership warned that any reform would enable germany to dominate poland . at the same time , the polish communist government emphasized how insanity the opposition arose , owing to tensions inherent in the marriage of economic liberals , left-wing workers , conservative catholics , and nationalists .
as the liberal democratic party ’s leader , abe should instruct local party branches to select more female candidates to run in next april ’s local elections . but , at least so far , abe seems likely to lack the will to do so ( though he may decide to work with local party bosses behind the scenes to engage with more women ) . it is also disturbing that some women abe has picked out for his cabinet and key party posts are the arch-conservatives who advocate that women stay at home and fend for their children . the inter-parliamentary union ranks japan 158th out of 189 countries in terms of its ratio of female mps to its ratio . things are just as bad at lower levels in government , where women account for just 13.1 % of representatives in local parliaments , more than 40 % of whom do not have female members at all .
living a long time is one of our deepest wishes , and medical and economic advances give our hope of being fulfilled . at the same time , some researchers suggest that average human lifespan could have been over 90 years , or more by mid-century . but what if our wish is issued ? what good is life if we can not sustain our standard of living ? the crucial difficulty in planning for enhanced longevity is that we do not know whether it will really happen .
so , in introducing a new governance style , exemplified by merit-based cabinet appointments , jokowi must be careful not to alienate the country ’s political and business elites , who have long benefited from his tight grip on power . in short , if jokowi is to build a domestic consensus around the institutions that indonesia needs , he will need to achieve across this political divide . promisingly , jokowi has a reputations for independence from partisan and religious politics and a knack for communicating with the people . to this end , mexican president enrique peña nieto ’s cross-party “ pact ” for mexico ” could serve as a useful model . and , as a political outsider , he is in unique position to direct indonesia toward a more prosperous , unified future , and vault into the country ’s big-leader pantheon .
the targeted killing by the united states by one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . and that shift would occur at a time of heightened challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 that what will weigh on the present for many years to come .
the upcoming g-20 summit should bring forward a fundamental reform of the fsb . it should give the fsb a legal personality , enshrined in the international treaty . draghi ’s successor as chairman should be a full-time appointee , and the fsb should be given powers to direct others ’ standard setters , review regulatory implementation by individual countries , and publish the results . the imf is far too politically a body to act as a system-risk watchdog . currently , it does not have a formal status and a small , albeit high-quality , permanent staff hosted by the bank for international settlements in basel .
dozens of pop stars , from pete townshend and paul mccartney to madonna , rallied to women ’s support . to be sure , august pussy riot could hardly have been classified as musicians . at the same time , they were more interested in creating visual images of this group . the case has also attracted the attention of the west in the us . both feminist chants and primitive chords have been secondary .
now , following the firms ’ discovery of massive reserves , technocrats appointed by yar ’ adua to take charge of the country ’s oil policies want nigeria to get a bigger slice of the pie . that also means ending government co-financing of operating costs , and demanding that oil companies tap capital markets to bridge the logjam . the us department of petroleum resources ( danes ) , a us oil company , has dismissed these claims , vowing to impose hefty fines on companies that flout the deadline . in the early 1990 ’s , desperately short of a hard currency , nigeria negotiated contracts lending mainly to oil companies to develop new fields and recoup their investment from profits to profit sharing . moreover , tony chukwueke , the danes ’s chief executive , has announced plans to create an african version of brazil , malaysia ’s state-run oil company , to transform the sclerotic nigerian national petroleum corporation into a powerful oil-producing firm that can dominate market in the gulf of guinea and other emerging regions .
moscow – in the run-up to the september 11 , 2001 , terror attacks in the united states led to the launch of the so-called “ war on terror . ” but us-led military invasions of afghanistan and iraq were not the whole story ; more than a number of countries , too , have ramped up monitoring and policing the domestic media and ordinary citizens . freedom of speech and personal privacy , governments have alleged , will have to be curtailed for security-related reasons . the damage has been especially pronounced in russia , where anti-terror regulations were often used as a tool to muffle the voices of those offering independent or alternative views , particularly views , which are critical of president vladimir putin ’s administration . by exploiting security as a pretext to pressure russia ’s media laws , which explicitly protect journalists against censorship , the government undermined journalism considerably .
populist campaigns in major referenda this year have differed in important respects . for example , colombian opponents of the paris peace treaty appealed to universal norms of justice for war crimes committed by the army and the farc rather than to national particularism , as in the united kingdom and the netherlands . nonetheless , as edmund burke famously points out , “ your representative owes you , not its industry only , but its actual judgment , and betrays , rather than serving you , as long as he sacrifices it to your opinion . ” nonetheless , all were motivated by the desire to scuttle the governments and the institutions they oppose . and all of them were willing to follow a tradition of dictators and resort to smears , distortions , and fantastical claims .
to a bookish youngsters , allen , an anxious intellectual who still gets a girl , was a sort of role model . but now that we are aware of accusations against a comedian and movie director , we are being forced , in scott ’s view , to reappraise work in that light . in other words , misbehavior , or even alleged bad behavior , may taint an artistic work because the artist can not be detached from his arts . there may be something sinister and immoral in movies that we should take into account . this is at least a more interesting proposition than the notion that art should be disqualified only because we dislike the way the artist behaved privately .
guatemala ’s former president , otto von molina , was forced to resign , and was subsequently jailed for corruption . likewise , indonesia ’s house speaker setya novanto , forced it to reresign , after being caught attempting to extort money from an “ freeport-mcmoran ” subsidiary . and indonesia ’s special court for corruption crimes has just convicted the country of former energy and mineral resources , jerusalem wacik wacik , to less than four years in prison . at the same time , journalism has played an outsize role . and public officials are being prosecuted as well .
for one thing , policymakers are more likely to continue to increase their countries ’ ’ reliance on financing , thereby heightening the risk of disorderly market adjustments than they are to implement difficult structural reforms and fiscal adjustments . as a result , many countries endured the painful disruptions that aggravated perhaps avoidable slippages of output ; provoked a surge in unemployment ; and , at worst , eroded potential growth . what most economists agree on is the ideal mix and sequencing of such maneuvers . but what looks good in theory has proved difficult to implement in practice . the so-called “ superb de-leveraging ” entails combining surveillance , financing , and judicious use of market-based pricing mechanisms .
stanford – in march , the german tabloid bild bild published an article modeled on what had uncovered how the sculpture of the breakaway regions of eastern ukraine is about to be treated as part of russia ’s sovereign territories . bilaterally , the document obtained a report from the october meeting of russia ’s “ inter-ministerial commission ” to provision of humanitarian aid to affected areas in southeast asia of the regions of the donetsk and luhansk . the revelations cast the forthcoming minsk 2 peace negotiations in a new light , one that illuminates the level of frustration that ukraine ’s government has cited . the revelations cast the february 2 peace negotiations , ostensibly to manage the region ’s finances , economic policies , energy and transportation infrastructure , and trade . it describes how meeting ’s attendees had focused not simply on humanitarian assistance , but rather on serving as a sort of shadow government .
if britain focuses over the next few years on how it can help europe recover and thrive , but rather on how it can change its own relations with europe , france and china should be beyond doubt about the beasts and frame the playing field that our current partners will bring to that kind of negotiation . when , during a “ adjustment ” course , ” ” ” ” the intention is to goad out very rough ( as it will ) , they say , “ well , “ pity , ” but now appears to require a adjustment that is not enough . there will be varying degrees of hardiness . but they will not thank us , and will not accommodate us at all . let us be hugely obvious , too , about “ renegotiating the terms of our membership , ” ” ” ” ” the sanctuary for those who would like to leave but like to want to persuade people that it truly is to fix the relationship .
at the same time , it deprives the continent of the talents and contributions needed to drive development and progress . a 2011 african development bank report finds that “ putting women into science and technology ultimately promises to benefit societies as a whole . ” gender equity in stem is achievable , and many african scholars show the world how to do it . but they need help , and programs offering scholarships and support are among the best ways to achieve parity in the sciences . the causes of africa ’s stem gender imbalance are often compared to a leaky pipe : girls start with interest and aptitude ; but drop out of disciplines at different points in their education .
and however farfetched a global currency might sound , recall that , before world war i , ditching the gold standard looked equally implausible . the benefit of ridding the world of national currencies would be enormous . in fact , the current system is both risky and inefficient . different monies are not only uncomfortable with tourists coming home with pockets full of unspendable foreign coin . global firms squander time and resources to a largely futile effort to hedge currency risk ( benefit only the banks acting as middlemen ) .
what they have not done is engage the international community with a comprehensive counterproposal . their offer – which they would need to go far beyond the 2002 arab peace initiative , or a portfolio of relevant united nations resolutions – could even incorporate kushner ’s plan as part of the transition to a final settlement . after all , economic development would go a long way toward stabilizing palestinian society in preparing for statehood , drastically reinforcing the peace settlement ’s chances for long-term success . in the past , transition agreements have amounted to what george orwell called “ catastrophic gradualism . ” but , with inclusion in a robust economic strategy , this could translate into nothing short of “ auspicious gradualism . ”
the caning of kartika , by contrast , is hardly an example of political manipulation , and for precisely that reason is perhaps even more worrisome . the majority of are anti-umno and supportive of the pas . her phrase was roundly promoted by modernist muslim intellectuals who insisted that the penalty be justly applied and can not be challenged because it has divine punishment . these are not politicians , but former idealists who rejoice over their goals of islamicizing the state will materialize . as a result , the umno has finds itself squeezed between the islamic lobby , which presses greater “ the country ’s talibanization ” and the rising voices of international critics who can not be ignored , because the party needs both its radical supporters and foreign investors to stay in power .
in this scenario , both japan and south korea would need to find some means to bridge a sino-centric asia and a china-centered pacific . specifically , an america would strongly encourage japan to join the tpp , because perhaps the us wants a united asia-pacific economic community rather than divide between asia and the pacific . because japan would not wish to distance itself from the us for strategic reasons , it might indeed adopt america ’s invitation . to be sure , america would need to respond to concluding any trilateral northeast asian fta so that it would preserve its own role in global trade , as well as to the supply chains that dominate asian economies today . it would most likely seek to expand and deepen the infant trans-pacific partnership , the trade deal that us president barack obama had committed to the bush administration last year .
as a result , america ’s fed chairman today commands super-normal influence . as the premier pan-european union institution , the ecb is uniquely positioned to play the leadership role of europe in arguing for fiscal policy , trade policy , and a demographic transition . but , while it quietly makes several important technical contributions to various debates , it is hemmed in politically and thus unable to achieve forcefully beyond its authority . this is an unfortunate limitation to the ecb ’s design by a group of nations that has yet to decide whether it prefers greater unity or greater decentralization . for the boj , a key problem is its deep institutional fear of rocking the boat politically , and therefore its inability to play the role of chief economist .
these outcomes were foreshadowed by the study last year by anne case and angus deaton , which shows that life expectancy has been on the decline for large segments of the us population – including america ’s so-called “ angry men of the rust belt . ” but , with incomes at the bottom 90 % having stagnated for close to a third of a century ( and declining for a substantial share ) , health data have simply confirmed that things are not going well for very large swaths of the country . and while america might be at the extremes of this trend , matters were little better elsewhere . why did the backlash in the us arrive at a time when the economy , it seemed , was on the mend , rather than earlier ? but , if it had seemed very clear that the political consequences would arise , their form and timing far less evident .
for israel , the cease-fire with hamas reflects its reluctance to become mired in another asymmetrical war like that which it fought in lebanon two summers ago , this time in the alleys of gaza ’s refugee camps . indeed , both israel and the united states remain adamant against hamas from the annapolis process unless and until it recognizes israel ’s right to exist , while hamas will not abandon its identity as an opposition movement merely to join negotiations , which seem unlikely to please the palestinian people with minimal requirements . it would require bold statesmanship to turn a cease-fire with hamas into the backdoor for political talks . aside from the annapolis talks , which appear to go nowhere because of the parties ’ persistent differences over the core issues , all the rest of peacemaking efforts are actually more tactical than strategic . in neither of them do the conditions yet exist for the immediate jump from war to peace , nor are the parties themselves expected to happen .
specifically , germany , europe ’s greatest economic power , and france , the intellectual progenitor of european unification , should announce its simultaneous exit from the euro and re-admission of the deutsche mark and the franc . this would trigger the immediate revaluation of the deutsche mark , and possibly of the swiss franc – relative to the euro . for their part , other eu member countries would have to decide whether to preserve the euro in their truncated form , or roll back to their own national currencies , perhaps pegging them to the revived deutsche mark or the franc . regardless of their decisions , the price competitiveness of the eurozone ’s weaker economies would greatly improve . to be sure , france and germany would need to implement interim arrangements to safeguard their banking systems ’ stability .
none of this would have been possible had iran ’s ancient muslim rulers not allowed academic freedom and free exchange of thought and speech – something that is sorely missing in today ’s islamic republic . for such muslim rulers , intellectuals are a fledgling world of terrorists , bombarding their regimes with intellectualism . for such muslim rulers , intellectuals are emerging as new world terrorists , bombarding their intellectualism . in its muslim era , iran boasted some of the great poets , technology writers , and researchers around the world . other autocratic rulers in the muslim world learn from iran ’s example , cracking down on intellectuals , journalists , lawyers , women activists , or just about anyone with thought and wishes to exchange them with others .
the leadership group ’s first priority would be to deal with the current crisis . its direct connections to us president barack obama , russian president vladimir putin , and european leaders would differentiate it from the existing arrangements . the leadership group would thus represent an important public demonstration of governments ’ commitment to addressing and resolving core issues , and provides a desperately needed vehicle for translating their resolve into action . in order to ensure broad membership and transparency across europe , as well as within existing structures , a leadership group should include some kind of representative from the osce , the european union , nato , the eurasian economic union , and nato . initially , the leadership group could include representatives from a core group of states – such as france , germany , italy , poland , russia , sweden , ukraine , the united kingdom , and the united states – directly , empowered and connected by their presidents and prime ministers .
finally , there are two major differences between the 1930 ’s and the present one . the industrial world today is far more reliant on ( mostly foreign ) oil than it was then . a other critical difference is that we know enough not to repeat mistakes – particularly the trade protectionism of the 1930s . the extreme rise in real oil prices was a strong cause of the current recession , and its reversal will be a major drag on recovery . because some confidence returns in the eventually recapitalized banking system , and long bond yields decline with sky-high inflation , mortgage and other borrowing rates will hit and monetary transmission mechanisms will revive , support economic activity , and stabilizing real house prices , albeit at an incomparably lower level .
researchers continue to unravel us with astounding discoveries , and billions of people worldwide have been lifted out of poverty . over the last two decades , however , dark clouds have grown over the current horizon , with more than 90 % of people living on the horizon . the terrorists have hit europe with a vengeance , with millions of refugees fleeing wars and hunger taxing european institutions and straining social cohesion . populist movements have emerged , calling for closed borders and new walls , and their rejection of expertise has led heldin to a kind of “ grim truth ” : that “ we can no longer take it for granted that humans believe in science , facts , and knowledge . ” to be sure , our expectations will invariably run into tension with reality .
denver – the united states ’ agreement on syria ’s chemical weapons reached by russia and the united nations is not so important as to what that might mean on the ground that remains to be seen as the inspectors begin flowing into syria , and hope , chemical-weapons stockpiles begin to crumble . rather , the agreement ’s major relevance consists in hitting the us : us secretary of state john kerry has met with his russian counterpart , sergei lavrov , in geneva , that most traditional diplomatic venues and cut the deal on a water-intensive relationship . in the days that will set weeks and months ahead , arrangements to remove chemical weapons from syria will , one hopes , trigger a new era in which both the united states and russia are working together on other pressing global issues as well . a cooperative us-russia relationship is essential if the international system , now almost dysfunctional , is to work properly in the future . the agreement on syria might have reached something else : americans might recognize that , amlo , and behold , there are other ways to solve problems than by dropping bomb attacks .
furthermore , financial capital tends to be better situated within the global system than industrial capital ; as soon as a plant exists , it is hard to move it . there is also an advantage to be gained at the heart of the global economy , rather than in the periphery . to be sure , supranational corporations enjoy flexibility of transfer pricing , and can exert downward pressure in the era of new investment decisions , but their degree of flexibility does not compare favorably to the freedom enjoyed by international portfolio investors . the advantage of being truly globalized of capitalism is unevenly distributed . capital is in far better shape than labor , for example , because capital is more mobile .
for my part , i ’m uncertain ; but i would n’t be surprised if it happened . for my part , i seem uncertain ; but i would n’t be surprised if it happened . the graph i prepared , conceived in advance of the latest oil-price acceleration in early november , shows a five-year forward price-keeping ratio after a period of some stability . as i made clear in a january 2015 paper , brent crude oil spot prices had become less subject to speculative fluctuations , and thus purer approximations of underlying commercial supply and demand factors . i had long defaulted to watch a five-year forward price of five-year forward pricing for incums-based policymaking for me about the equilibrium price of oil . with the spot price now having moved above a five-year forward price , one might conclude that some trend is on track .
this should not have surprised anyone , at all . the dpj ’s only rationale for being able to do so yet is its anti-ldp stance , while the sdp has long opposed the japan-us security treaty , and the pnp strongly opposes koizumi ’s privatizations . this does not amount to a coherent policy-making program , and prime minister yukio hatoyama ’s administration swiftly revealed the dpj a crucial hollowness . but the biggest problem with hatoyama ’s administration is that the dpj took power without a coherent national security policy . the dpj was established in 1998 as the country ’s then-chief “ jambalaya ” party , consisting of people leaving the ldp , including hatoyama himself , and the former socialist party .
the region ’s new republics face no concrete or visible foe in the present . in a democratic state , these engage in defense efforts only insofar as society understands the importance of defense at the forefront . as a result , many view defense expenditures as a luxury , if not an outright waste of money . so what is needed is a time and , again , a fact that defense of the state means , first and foremost , in defense of all the us states ’ human dignity . drafting an effective defense of the nation is unthinkable without much more , or lesser , participation in every state of state .
more investment could enable scientists to discover new microbial strains with unique abilities to influence soil and crop health locally , thereby leveraging africa ’s own natural environment to improve agricultural productivity . greater investment in soil research could also have spillover benefits for african economies . with new discoveries leading to patents and licenses , the resulting research could spur the formation of new agribusinesses and farm-related industries . i can personally vouch for the power of spillover benefits from this type of research . my own work on soil microbes at auburn led to the issuance of three american patents , with a few agricultural companies pursuing rights to commercialize products from technology .
iran backed the us during the first gulf war , but was left out of the madrid peace conference . within the american-iranian equation , it was the american , rather than iran , that pursued rigid , ideological diplomacy . iran also supported america in its war to depose the taliban in afghanistan . and , when american forces overran saddam hussein ’s military in the spring of 2003 , encircled iranians proposed a grand bargain that would place all the contentious issues on the table , from the nuclear issue to israel , from hezbollah to hamas . the iranians also pledged to halt obstructionism of the israeli-arab peace process .
simultaneously , america has long pursued military superiority . in 2002 , it unilaterally abrogated the 1972 anti-ballistic missile treaty . and , more recently , it has embarked on the massive build-up of conventional forces and a broad-based modernization of its nuclear arsenal . still , russia , china , and the rest of the world will not allow a return to american hegemony . putin recently made that clear by unveiling a number of new , cutting-edge strategic arms systems , as part of what i would call the anti-preemptive deterrence strategy .
but , in copenhagen at the time , the very structure established by the lisbon treaty has failed . beyond its failures in copenhagen , the eu has several more problems . its know-it-all posture grates with the us almost everywhere . it tends to be perceived globally as mostly supercilious , petulant , and prim . with only 7 % of the world ’s population ( and rapidly dwindling ) , and composed mostly of post-industrial low-growth economies , the eu is increasingly perceived as being marginal .
but larger companies also have a greater capacity to become a force for good , both locally and globally . when the world ’s largest corporations and most well-recognized brands take seriously their responsibility as buyers , sellers , and manufacturers and make firm commitments to act on core values , others will tend to follow – or risk being left behind . at the same time , the same point applies to wages and labor practices in the us . those operating in an ethical way and seek to improve the lives of all those associated with manufacture , marketing , and distribution of their goods will benefit kudos , more business , or simply not singled out as a sorrowful actor . if the size of the american enterprise retailer walmart decides that it will not allow wasteful packaging , his purchasing power will result in packaging for the entire retail sector .
this can be seen most clearly in my own country , pakistan . there are roughly 70 separate nato-led aid offices and 40 international ngos engaged in providing aid to pakistanis . but most decisions about how to spend the money to which they receive are made outside the country . simply put , western countries ’ current approach simply does not work . despite the massive growth in aid dollars over the last few years , including the billions authorized by former us president barack obama , those on the ground are largely cutting off from the delivery process .
in his meetings with ceos of major oil and gas companies , francis told them , “ our desire to ensure energy for all ” must not lead to an unwanted effect of an downward spiral of extreme climate change as a result of the catastrophic rise of global temperatures , harsher environmental conditions , and elevated levels of poverty . he observed that oil companies are engaged in “ the continued quest for new fossil-fuel reserves , ” whereas the paris agreement clearly urged keeping most fossil-fuel cars underground . and he reminded executives that “ civilization ” requires energy , but the use of energy must not destroy civilization ! similar corruption of purpose causes makes the canadian government , which needs a new pipeline to export its polluting and expensive oil-sands to asia , while under-investing in canada ’s vast renewables . as a result , francis has underscored the moral dimension of a problem : cost reduction .
kuru was transmitted through the cannibalistic ceremonies that were commonplace in papua new guinea until the 1950 ’s . the resulting epizootic ( “ animal epidemics ” ) affected more than 280,000 cows . both kuru and scrapie are infectious ; similarly , in the united kingdom and elsewhere , healthy cattle made food and nutrition possible from infected cattle . and a near-identical , invariably lethal diseases , a kuru , ravaged newly born known people in papua new guinea throughout the twentieth century .
this includes those reliant on bank credit , as well as many mortgage holders with very high legacy interest rates and balances that exceed their households ’ market value . all of this slowing social mobility , tears already-stretched safety nets , worsens inequality , and accentuate genuine concerns about the functioning and sustainability of today ’s global economic system . viewed from every angle , the extremity hold of this state of affairs – in which those with access to credit do not need it and those who do can not move to it – is highly problematic . if left unattended , it leads to a path of gradual and then accelerated fiscal deleveraging , with the economic system ’s top first-round costs – a prolonged unemployment and growth crisis afflicting those least able to suffer . in the next round , as the system slowly implodes , even those with healthy balance sheets would be coping , accelerating their disengagement from the deleveraging global economy .
everywhere else , for whatever reason , misguided strategies , tactical mistakes , erroneous theory , american intervention , dimming , only defeat , repression , and futility . by the early 1990 ’s , it became increasingly apparent that the armed struggle for power in latin american revolts in latin american countries exploded . in country after country , farc guerillas were defeated , pacified , entering the democratic process , or were being rendered irrelevant . democratic transitions throughout the hemisphere made it almost justifiable : as che foretold in his inla guerra de guerrillas in 1962 , wherever the trappings ( or , one might add , the realities ) of democratic rule prevailed , to accept arms free . only a few groups remained : the shining path in peru , the manuel rodríguez patriotic front in chile during a timely period of zapatistas in chiapas , mexico , and the farc in colombia .
european fascism collapsed with the defeat of germany in 1945 , but less aggressive forms were living on elsewhere , such as argentina with its peronism . at that time , the working class dependably supported the parties of the left . today , the social foundation of left-wing politics has vanished . the social foundation of interwar fascism made it sensible to see it as a party of the far right . the only political space left for fascism was the bourgeoisie : shopkeepers , small businessmen , and low-level civil servants .
putting this aside , let us guess that the decision before tsipras was so decisive and complicated that it merited the exceptional step of the referendum . in that case , the event was supposed to reflect on that complexity . the eu got a hastily arranged referendum . it was meant to be organized and conducted with due respect for the stakes involved , with the government ensuring that adequate information was relayed by the greek people . it should have been on a cautious and intentional sounding of people ’s will .
as the cultural psychologist richard shweder notes , circumcision has been increasingly featured in conflicts between europeans and middle easterners for centuries . in other words , culture plays an even larger role in shaping human-rights interpretations than many realize , which imply that human-rights practitioners should remain vigilant about passing judgment on any practice with profound cultural or religious roots . moreover , different communities prioritize different human rights differently . there are obvious tensions not only between religious freedom and individual ’ views about physical integrity , but also between parental rights and state authority , multiculturalism and nationalism – and religious and secular moral perspectives . for some , the moral framework offered by human rights is sufficient in itself ; but , for others , as william brookings institution notes , “ the practice of human rights hardly exhausts the empire of moral and spiritual goods . ”
new delhi – something of the number five in sino-indian relations is at stake . asia ’s two giants have long defined their relationship with each other in terms of the famous pancha sheela : mutually respect for each other ’s territorial integrity and sovereignty ; mutual non-aggression ; mutual non-interference in one another ’s internment ; equality and mutual benefit ; and peaceful co-existence ; and peaceful co-existence . now china ’s new leaders have enunciated the new pancha sheela , with president xi jinping offering a “ five-point proposition ” for sino-indian relations . updated principles would maintain strategic communication and healthy bilateral relations ; harness one another ’s strengths and expand cooperation on infrastructure , investment , and various fields ; deepen cultural ties and enhance mutual understanding and friendships ; expand coordination in multilateral affairs to capitalize on developing countries ’ legitimate interests and address global challenges ; and accommodate one another ’s core concerns and reconcile bilateral disagreements amicably . india would be pleased to embrace each of these principles .
for 25 years , the bank sought to take governments out of agriculture , leaving impoverished peasants to fend for itself . this extreme free-market ideology , also called “ structural adjustment ” ” ” ” ” ” went against the practical lessons of china ’s development successes and the rest of asia . the result has been a catastrophe in africa , with agriculture-led productivity stagnant for decades . practical development strategies recognizes that public investment – in agriculture , health , education , and infrastructure – is necessary to complement private investment . by contrast , the bank has also pushed hard to privatized national health systems , water-related utilities , and roads and power networks , and undergrossly financed these critical sectors .
in the run-up to next year ’s us presidential election , putin will not hesitate to take advantage of foreign leaders to give him . already , he has ensured that opposition leader alexei navalny was convicted of embezzlement , relegating the government to bar him from the ballot . when america betrays its own values to avoid challenging russia , it strengthens putin ’s hand considerably . putin ’s authority may appear unshakeable , but in fact , it is propped up by state propaganda and fear . meanwhile , the perception that he has the american on the ropes empowers putin to continue silencing his opponents .
today , political leaders openly attack “ burdensome ” green taxes . with energy-price shifts in the center stage , there is a risk that already-weak low-carbon investment incentives will be further undermined . across europe , calls for “ affordable ” energy ” are fast becoming a euphemism for increased fossil-fuel subsidies and a rollback of green-energy commitments . the recent debates in the uk illustrate the emerging fault lines . for more than five years , britain has broken the international mold by enacting legislation mandates that advocating an 80 % cut in greenhouse-gas emissions by 2050 .
moreover , the ccp can no longer count on rising prosperity to sustain public support . indeed , for all of its practical purposes , pro-market reforms are dead . rampant corruption and rising inequality , combined with obvious environmental decay , are displacing ordinary chinese – particularly the middle class , which once held high hopes for reform – to become increasingly disillusioned . simultaneous rampant corruption and rising inequality , together with obvious environmental decay , is causing ordinary chinese – particularly the middle class , which once held high hopes for reform – to become increasingly disillusioned . at the same time , given rapid population aging , china ’s demographic dividend has everything but dissipated .
apart from another reasonably productive nuclear-security summit in seoul in march 2012 , the news on the disarmament front over the past year has arguably been bleak . negotiations to “ de-alert ” the 2,000 nuclear weapons , which remain at an absurdly dangerous , cold war-era readiness ever started . meanwhile , no other nuclear-armed state has voiced the slightest interest in bilateral or multilateral reductions negotiations until the two major powers , which currently hold about 95 % of the world ’s gdp , make major cuts . the further us-russian arms-reduction negotiations ground to a halt long before the american presidential election season began . the cautious starting point for america ’s effort to amend its nuclear doctrine , toward accepting that the us ’ nuclear weapons ’ “ sole purpose ” is to respond to nuclear threats and not any other kind , has gone nowhere .
in the process , he has transformed a country that is in the grip of drug barons and on the verge of becoming a failed state . the professionalism of colombia ’s armed forces , coupled with uribe ’s popularity and a surging economy , has delivered – for the first time in more than three decades – normality for colombia ’s cities and , increasingly , peace and rule of law to much of its sprawling jungle regions . but the benefits of uribe ’s apparent defeat of the farc extend far beyond colombia . indeed , many farc defectors now prefer fighting to their cause at the ballot box , led by the new leftist polo alternativo democratico . likewise , the hostage rescue mission has forced chávez , still recovering , from last year ’s ill-fated power-centric referendum ( a moment when chávez ’s autocratic leader reportedly refused his demand to fudge the result ) onto the defensive .
but the truth remains that a significant share of the world ’s 30 million displaced children – 12 million of whom are refugees – will walk through their school-age years without ever having a foot in a school . clearly , international aid for education will also need to rise . across the world ’s 35 conflict zones , some 75 million children are currently being denied both education and prospects for future employment . yet , with an annual financing gap for primary and secondary education alone , it is also clear that the us needs a new approach . in addition to mobilizing private-sector sources of finance , we must make already available aid ( $ 13 billion over the last year ) going far further than it has in the past , by creating incentives for recipient governments to increase investment in education .
and , indeed , a significant share of greece ’s government debt has migrated from banks , to robust public institutions like the european central bank and the international monetary fund . in that sense , those public institutions have already bailed out private institutions . but the risks have not been overwhelmed ; on the contrary , what has been left is the collapse of banks and other financial institutions . the margin on error for systemically important banks and other financial institutions is narrow . because they remain under-capitalized , modest losses from direct defaults and indirect losses on greece ’s trading companies may threaten bank capital , causing bankers to cut back on lending .
finally , the aids effort was able to spread , owing to the profound power of advocacy and collaborations that transformed markets for diagnostic and treatment programs . finally , aids efforts were able to expand , owing to robust advocacy and collaborations that transformed markets for diagnostic and treatment programs . by forecasting medications needs , aggregating orders , and promoting competition , together with intense advocacy , policymakers and providers managed to secure market efficiencies . the resulting economies of scale allowed ai to shift from low to volume , high-margin solutions to high , low labor-market models . as a result , such efforts reduced the cost of annual hiv treatments from over $ 10,000 in 2001 to less than $ 100 in 2016 . for example , it would have been useful for tracking programs to track how many high-blood people have been diagnosed and placed on treatment ; what proportion of these on treatment has achieved blood-pressure controls ; and what level of treatments that would be required to reduce premature deaths is a desired target .
to those confronting the prospect of dying , what matters is access to life-saving drugs , not whether what is killing a person is part of an epidemic . just before last year ’s trade talks at cancun , the us had made some concessions , in order to deny that it is no longer the only holdout . the global consensus , reflected in the copenhagen commission report , calls for more exceptions to the us , in order to make affordable drugs in any case where to do so could save lives . in its bilateral trade agreements , however , america demands what is becoming known as “ trips plus , ” which would further enhance intellectual-property rights by ensuring that countries have the right to produce inexpensive generic drugs during the epidemics and other emergencies . bilateral agreements form the basis of enhanced ties of friendship among countries .
without that exchange-rate adjustment , faster export growth would expose the chinese economy to the risk of becoming overheating . as a result , chinese policymakers have been waiting to see whether america ’s recovery is real . as a result , chinese policymakers have been waiting to see whether america ’s recovery is real . meanwhile , the pace of chinese spending growth will not change dramatically . and , if its exports are growing more rapidly , they might allow the renminbi to rise more slowly .
a similar pivot is needed if the imf is to deliver better on supra-national issues that now lurk its policy agenda . specifically , the fund would have to complement its traditional core constituency of governments and other multilateral institutions ( particularly the world bank ) with systemically influential sub-national and private counterparts . when i joined the imf in the early 1980s , discussions with nongovernmental counterparts , whether on country or policymaking work , were discouraged . broader national engagement – with ngos , local media , and a broad pool of policymakers – is now viewed as an integral part of effective country advising and program implementation , as well as vital to the fund ’s “ supervision ” function under its articles of agreements . the situation today is very different .
at a time of slow response , the world is acting today , too . leila zerrougui , the un secretary-general ’s special representative for children , and armed conflict , has recommends designating abductions of children of schools as planned in the united nations secretary-general ’s annual report to the security council . and , thanks to the un children ’s fund ( unicef ) , a global coalition to guard education against attack , the global business coalition for education , and former nigerian finance minister ngozi okonjo-iweala , nigeria has now piloted the concept of safe schools . thirty countries recently signed on to lucens or safe school guidelines instructing their military institutions how to prevent schools from being used as instruments of war . this has meant financing school guards , fortifications , and surveillance devices to reassure parents and pupils that every possible imperative is being done to ensure their school safely while taking office .
because fiscal austerity means more recessionary and deflationary pressures in the short run , one would need more monetary stimulus to compensate and more domestic demand growth – through delayed fiscal austerity , in germany . this makes greece both insolvent and coercive restructuring of its public-debt sustainability inevitable . italy and spain are in serious trouble , and why even italy – which is on a relatively sounder fiscal footing but has had flat per capita income for a decade and little structural reform – can not be complacent . but the two largest policy players in greece – the european central bank and the german government – remain unwilling to part of this agenda , hoping that one-quarter of good gdp data makes the trend look like . the rest of the eurozone is in barely better shape than the periphery : bond vigilantes might not reawakened in france , but economic performance has been anemic at best , driven mostly by a mini housing boom .
jospin and chirac did not do nothing to implement a major liberalizing agenda ( including energy , financial services , and transport ) agreed among eu members in lisbon just two years ago , which implies that the benefits of liberalizing will be denied france at a time when the eu public perceives the eu as imposing all sorts of constraints on the french way business . europe has been thinking about the french political class to be the solution . but europe and the eu could be increasingly catalysts for public resentment . the pity of le pen ’s newfound prominence may yet prove beneficial insofar as it forces the mainstream political establishment to heed popular concerns and tackle the country ’s problems . it is time for france to abandon the indulgence of french exceptionalism ( “ l’exception francaise ) and initiate serious reforms involving the french electorate .
the modern version of this explanation holds that the world is changing so rapidly that national security , and , indeed , national identity , are under threat . modern economic growth still depends in nearly every advanced industrial country on imported energy ( norway is an exception ) . people in places like france and poland who worry about national decline are seeking to shift to blaming somebody outside the eu . there was certainly much movement into this kind of sentiment in the 1930s , when the populist response to the great depression attributed it to sinister forces of “ international capital . ” an alternative scenario suggests that these fears have dismissed the idea of a real problem .
his other name , abu mazen , is not a revolutionary name , but reflects the practice of naming a person as the father of his eldest son . an attempt at the primaries to choose fatah ’s candidates backfired , owing to deception and losers ’ refusal to honor outcomes . calling for national elections while politically correct has been political suicide , for it lacked any vision of the possible outcome , and has had very little to ensure fatah ’s discipline . abbas was the son of mazen , who runs a local advertiser agency . in his attempt to counter arafat ’s political corruption and micro-management office , abbas lost whatever chance he had to retain the fatah leadership ’s loyalty , newly appointed pa officials , security personnel , and , most important , local militants .
new york – for four decades , ledra street at the heart of nicosia has long been a symbol of a divided cyprus . and then , two years ago this april , a wall that separated capital to north and north has been opened . last week , i visited an ledra street crossing , a conference on syria . slowly , people who had not mingled for 44 years started to renew their ties and rediscovering one another . it was a window on what the future might bring .
but if the proposals being discussed in beijing last month are realized , the resulting fta could surpass nafta as part of its level of integration and importance to the global economy . besides , creating a china-japan-south korea-us fta would most likely trigger a chain-reaction chain-reaction . for example , momentum could expand southward and spur a asean that has bilateral ftas with the three countries to join the group . such a turn of events would be the equivalent of establishing an east asian free-trade area that asean +3 envisioned a decade ago . but if that happened , other countries – australia , new zealand , and , most important , india – might seek to jump on the bandwagon .
as a result , adherence to tb drug treatment is particularly weak , paving the way for multidrug-resistant ( mdr ) tb that can no longer cure for conventional therapeutic regimes . some 50 million people are currently infected with tubercle bacco-illi that are mdr . while treating mdr-tb remains possible , doing so is arduous , with the cure for roughly two years , using drugs that are neither efficient nor as benign as benign as canonical drugs – and at a cost that rises by the factor of 10 100 . compare this with the antibiotic treatment of , say , a urogenital infection that lasts a couple of weeks at most . while this extra cost can be borne in the rich world ’s health-care system , it is excessive for poor countries , attempting no , or inadequate , cure .
market forces play a role , of course , but markets also tend to be shaped by politics ; and in america , with its quasi-corrupt campaign-financing system and its revolving door between government and industry , politics is shaped by money . in a country where money trumps democracy , such legislation has become predictably frequent . but increasing inequality is not inevitable ; on the contrary , increasing inequality is not inevitable . there are market economies that are doing better , both when it comes to both gdp growth and rising standards of living for the majority of citizens . for example , through a system of bankruptcy that claims privileges derivatives over all else but fail to discharge student debt at the same time , no matter how inadequate education provided , enriches bankers and impoverishment many at the bottom .
by contrast , former us secretary of state and democratic presidential candidate hillary clinton , and the leading republican contender , donald trump , have opposed deep reform of social security and medicare . senator bernie sanders , america ’s democratic rival for the first time , actually proposes to broaden those programs ’ unfunded liabilities . either way , america would have faced growth-limiting tax increases , and caps on transfers that public investment may impose on the country ’s future . with so few us presidential candidates recognizing the linkage between reforming social security and medicare , and ensuring broadly shared prosperity , america faces major risks . a progressive redistributive agenda could continue to advance , or the conservative entitlement-reform agenda could go away .
the austrians are right that haider-like parties exist in a number of european countries – britain , france , even in some scandinavian countries . confronted with the electoral result of whether to rejoin the social democrats or haider ’s freedom party , they frame a faustian bargain with haider . but in all of these countries , the political discourse of any democratic party has ostracized these racist groups and parties : british conservatives never entered an alliance with the british national front ; the same goes for france , where french conservatives have dropped out of their own party local party leaders who fashioned municipal alliances with le pen ’s deputies . this is precisely what the austrian conservative people ’s party under wolfgang schuessel did not do . there may be good political reasons why another alliance with the center-left social democrats was not appealing to schuessel ’s party ( one , it would not be chancellor in such a grand coalition ) .
the congressional budget office projects that even with no further legislation , the debt-to-gdp ratio will rise to 91.2 % by 2027 . the $ 1.5 trillion deficit implied by tax reform would be raised to 97 % . it is hard to believe that a 97 % debt-to-gdp ratio would make that more difficult to achieve than a 92 % debt-to-gdp ratio . a military emergency or an economic downturn would call for additional debt-financed spending or tax cuts . but even a massive spending program like america ’s $ 900 billion recovery and reinvestment act of 2009 would add only an additional three percentage points to the debt-to-gdp ratio .
at the same time , the african union has reacted inversely . its peace and security council met , and expressed the au ’s categorical rejection of any attempt to create a fait acpli that underlies the electoral process . ecowas chair and nigerian president goodluck jonathan challenged all parties with “ respect , ” and fully executing the verdict of the ivorian people as he declared an independent electoral commission . the economic community of west african states ( ecowas ) vigorously denounced any attempt to “ usurp the popular will of côte d’ivoire ’s men and appeals to all relevant stakeholders to accept the results declared by the electoral commission . and us president barack obama congratulated ouattara publicly , suggesting that the world would “ hold those who act to thwart the democratic process and the prodding of voters accountable for their actions . ”
seoul – has the world entered a new era of mayhem ? indeed , the bitter legacy of the invasions of iraq and afghanistan , followed by the financial crisis of 2008 , turned the united states not only reluctant to use its military might , even as “ red lines ” are crossed , but also seemingly unwilling to shoulder any serious burden to maintain its global leadership position . china ’s leaders have shown their lack of concern for active global leadership by openly rejecting calls to become a “ responsible stakeholder ” in the international political and economic system . america ’s vacillating policy toward syria certainly suggests this . but , with america no longer willing to lead , who takes its place ?
ethanol accounts for more than 50 % of currently light-vehicle fuel demand in the country , and petrobras – brazil ’s energy giant and one of latin america ’s largest companies – expects that share to rise to above 80 % by 2020 . brazil has been trying to become energy self-sufficient in kind similar to modern efforts by other countries . our research shows that industrial policies have been successful in promoting a competitive bioethanol industry in brazil . but it would not have worked without the crucial role that competition plays . a massive stimulus package prompted by the rise of oil prices in the 1970 ’s gave birth to entirely new industries .
the ilo contends that children suffer greatly when they are pushed into submission as “ little adults . ” “ the child ’s creativeness and capacity to transcend reality is blunted , ” states one ilo report , “ and his entire mental world is impoverished . ” the sad reality is that families are often only the last to protest the exploitation of their children . indian fathers still repay debts by committing their children to bonded labor . pakistan ’s parents on occasion maim their children to produce beguiling beggars .
but , despite its riches and the military may well , america ’s ability to project political power – for good or ill – will decline in future years , for at least five reasons : america ’s budget is in crisis . thanks to bush ’s tax cuts and military spending – which contributed to annual budget deficits of $ 500 billion a year – america will need to raise taxes and impose limits on budget spending , both if and not bush is re-elected . asia ’s central banks have bought hundreds of billions of dollars of american securities . japan alone has foreign-exchange reserves of roughly $ 750 billion , much of that in us treasury bills . the annual us military budget , which has increased by another $ 150 billion since bush took office , will need to be slashed in coming years to extract the us budget under control ; america is borrowing massively from abroad .
to be sure , there have long been policy efforts to undermine or replace the us dollar as the dominant global currency . after all , the most seductive alternative seems to have been gold . in 2001 , then-malaysian prime minister mahathir mohamad tried to introduce what amounts to a “ golden dinar ” as an answer to a us-based currency system . so far , though hardly any globally devastating monetary attacks have occurred outside the domain of cinematic fantasy . russia theoreticians of “ eurasia ” often tout traditional russian iconography ’s use of a fine metal .
voilà , a successful “ short ” trade-off . as long as that attack persists , speculators can pressure a government to default on its debt , unless it can find ways to finance its borrowing more cheaply . my gains at this bearish view are thus € 1.65 a barrel – the € 9.1 m i got by selling the bonds when i borrowed on january 1 , minus the € 7.2 m that i needed to pay to repurchase them on june 30 , minus the € 250,000 in interest that i must pay goldman sachs for a six-month loan . to be sure , a single short seller can not “ make ” the price of an asset ( unless he is , of course , george soros , whose celebrated gamble against the british pound in 1992 made him a billionaire and compelled britain out of the european exchange-rate mechanism ) . but if a group of speculators decides ( rightly or wrongly ) that a government debt is overpriced , they may force its price down , thereby forcing its yield ( the interest rate that the government must pay ) .
to the extent that tariffs reduce china ’s exports , the government and central bank can offset the economic impact by stimulating domestic demand . slowing chinese economic growth this year has been the result almost entirely of deliberate decisions to disentangle the banking system , slashed local governments ’ borrowing , rein in over-investment in infrastructure , and curb booming house prices through tightening monetary policy . all of these austerity policies can easily be eased or reversed . doubts about the chinese government ’s willingness to shift economic policy from stimulus tightening to stimulus have been dispelled in recent weeks . clear statements by policymakers , all manner of xi , have indicated that china would deny any future weakening of the us economy , even if that means accepting bigger budget deficits or loosening up bank deleveraging and monetary tightening .
in the eighteenth century , shipping technology improved enough to enable the formation of global supply chains . african slaves were used to grow cotton in the south united states , which was then shipped to the english mills . the finished cloth was then exported to the outside world . cotton was one of the first industries to witness this shift . this was the age of the villages of blacksmith , weaver , napoleon , and cobbler .
like the blade of grassroots beneath a stone , a culture knows how and in which direction to seek light . is it “ always to be represented by the lone political party ? ” it need not “ policies . ” i do not know what “ the progressive direction of advanced-country culture ” is , but today , advanced culture has played none of the ccp-inspired “ wipe out the poisonous weeds campaign , ” the “ anti-rightist movement , ” or the “ elimination of demons and evil heresy campaign . ” such obscurantism only creates a culture of stultifying uniformity .
in 2006 , president olusegun obasanjo , then nigeria ’s president , was among the first to do just that . uganda ’s president yoweri museveni followed suit when signing an anti-gay bill into law in a 2014 speech . other leaders , from gambia ’s president yoahya jammeh to zimbabwe to zimbabwe ’s robert mugabe , spoke in the same vein . these official attitudes inflicted profound suffering on africa ’s gays and lesbos . indeed , the price of homophobia for gay people in many african countries is painfully obvious : legal sanctions , social ostracism , and mobs in the political community .
perhaps more important , they have an inadequate voice at the world bank , the international monetary fund , and the adb . that underscores a key concern among development economists and national-security observers as the aiib ’s birth approaches . china ’s explanation for its push to establish the aiib is that developing-country countries have inadequate access to capital for infrastructure . still , looking ahead , china ’s gdp , at around 30 % , seems set to be the largest of the 57 participating countries , which could effectively give it a near-veto over the aiib ’s decisions . will it turn out to be the china-centric bank , brazil , and china , or will it be pursuing a multilateral agenda in the manner of the world bank and regional development banks like the asian development bank ( adb ) and the african development bank ( afdb ) ?
at the international monetary fund ’s annual meeting in october , the fund ’s imf chief economist , olivier blanchard , fueled the controversy by pointing out that , in a recent era , governments have tended to undershoot the adverse growth effects of fiscal consolidation . they typically assumed that to cut public expenditure by a dollar in the short run would reduce gdp by up to 50 cents in the medium term ; according to blanchard , a true result in current conditions is a decline of $ 0.90-1.70 . that is a big gap , but it also a puzzling one : how is likely to produce so much uncertainty ? contrary to what such forecasting disparities may suggest , economists actually know much about the consequences of fiscal policy , at least far more than they used to know . until the 1980 ’s , it routinely assumed that the so-called “ multiplier ” – the ratio of gdp to shifts to government spending – was stable and larger than one .
for far too long , urban dwellers have used as pawns on a global nuclear chessboard , with little concern for the full implications of playing the game . but , because the public becomes educated about the specific threats that nuclear weapons continue to pose to the cities where they live , that stance will become increasingly difficult to maintain . worse still , there has been suggestions that their actual use will follow . at the same time , people worldwide must stop regarding one another as untrustworthy foes . military planners who count the use of nuclear weapons have probably given scant thought to those living in cities on their destination lists .
these groups have been able to capitalize on the economic and social pain felt elsewhere in many eu member states , particularly given that majority europeans are being unconvinced that the worst is over . many europeans oppose the idea of “ more europe , ” ” ” ” ” ” the eu ’s mantra traditionalists in the two major party families , the european people ’s party ( epp ) , and the social democrats . the influence of widening disparities between the eu ’s affluent “ north ” and its stumbling “ south , ” ” ” ” with france ’s middle ( but heading south ) voters , was also apparent . and the massive prosperity gap between the old ” and “ new ” eu member states continues to determine voting patterns . moreover , right-wing populist parties have taken advantage of their increasing public frustration with the eu itself .
no , that is far rarer and costlier : it ’s pulverized white rhino horn . no , that is far rarer and costlier : it ’s pulverized white rhino horn . a half-century ago , white rhinos were abounded in africa . today , the international union for conservation groups estimates that only about 25,000 still roam the continent , most of them in south africa , with a handful in namibia and kenya . they raise their spectacles filled with finest scotch , who has been sprinkled with a fine powder .
dubai – the global financial crisis has taught the world what profoundly interdependent our economies have become . in today ’s crisis of extremism , we must recognize that we simply are as interdependent for our own security , as is evident in the current struggle to defeat isis . the world needs to unite behind a holistic drive to discredit an ideology that confers the extremists ’ power to restore hope and dignity to those whom it will recruit . if we are to stop isis from teaching us that lesson the hard way , we must acknowledge that we can not put out that fires of fanaticism by bullying alone . isis certainly can – and will – be defeated militarily by an international coalition that is now assembling , with which the uae actively supporting .
this year ’s nobel prize in economic sciences went to george akerlof at berkeley ’s university , michael spence of stanford university ’s larry summers , and i was myself for our work on `` the asymmetry of information . '' what is that work about , and why have the us committed to it ? for two hundred years , we used straightforward economic models that assumed that information is perfect – that it is that all participants shared and transparent information generated the relevant factors . they knew that information was imperfect , but hoped that a world with moderate imperfections of information could be akin to an excellent world of information . we showed that the notion was ill-founded : even small imperfections of information can have profound implications for how the economy behaved .
under the threat of an entire system ’s collapse , a safety net – intended to help unhappy individuals meet life-exigencies – extended generously to commercial banks , then to investment banks , insurers , auto companies , even car-loan firms . it certainly did not serve homeowners who lose their homes , workers who lose out , pensioners who see their retirement funds vanish , or their taxpayers who bought hundreds of billions to bail out the banks . we are accustomed to thinking about government transfers from the well off to the poor . never before has so much money been transferred from so many to so few . the bankers ’ pursuit of self-interested ( greed ) failure has led not to the well-being of society ; it has n’t even serve its shareholder and bondholders well .
this approach would be in line with the principle that us president barack obama highlighted , when announcing the latest round of sanctions against russia last month , that ukraine must be allowed to “ chart its own path . ” importantly , the constitution requires a super-majority , rather than , say , the easily reversible “ un-bloc resolution , ” which ukraine ’s parliament adopted in 2010 , to join a military alliance . the practical outcome , ukraine remaining unaligned in its military and security terms , would reflect the ukrainian will as a whole . above all , it would help ukraine ’s people – divided between inherently antagonistic identities – live together peacefully . of course , ukraine ’s position may change in the future , with cultural , demographic , and economic shifts producing the needed consensus to abandon its neutrality .
in an institutional setting , long-run reform should aim for a shift to a system based on single-savings accounts , as in chile , unlike in france nowadays , pay-as-you-go ( payg ) , and payg pension systems . in any viable long-run arrangement , benefit levels relative to wages should be reduced , retirement ages should be pushed up to international norms , and eligibility for special pensions ( disability ones , especially ) should be tightened , to cover only the truly in need . in coming years , the most important fiscal task facing east european and solar governments will be to reduce the size of social spending relative to a more sensible portion of gdp . the public should understand the critical difference between a one-time transfer to old workers at the beginning of a market-based economic reforms and a long run pension policy . political elites – at home and from abroad – will need to turn public attention to the looming fiscal crisis .
and , in a third phase , the potential onset of higher inflation may catch policymakers and investors by surprise , producing excessive reactions that make the wrong situation worse . focusing too much on a cyclical one , rather than structural , might entail serious risks for future economic well-being and financial stability . yet , either way , policymakers in advanced economies need to recognize that their inflation outlook accounts for a broader set of dynamic possibilities than has been deemed so far . as with most paradigm shifts , there can be little assurance about the timing of this scenario . but that may well be followed by a second stage in which tight labor markets , populist nationalism , and industrial concentration begin to offset the one-time structural effects of new technology being widely adopted .
likewise , by implementing the 2015 paris climate agreement , which will require modest investment in energy efficiency and access to renewable-energy sources to keep global temperatures from rising above 2º celsius . groups would operate under a common mandate across all un agencies and are being led by un operations directors within each country . a fifth step should include greater women ’s integration fully and equally into all parts of the un ’s agenda , rather than simply in discrete areas pertaining to “ womanhood ” issues . multidisciplinary “ team un ” team could be deployed in the field to crack down on departmental barriers and confront the relevant challenges . a fifth step should be to integrate women fully and equally into all parts of the un ’s agenda , rather than only in discrete areas pertaining to women ’s ” issues .
with an estimated 268 million people living in extreme poverty in a recent survey , india is home to some of the planet ’s largest absolute number of poor people . in the drc , 77 % of the population is extraordinarily poor , and falls one dollar short of the poverty line , on average . each is on an average of 38 cents per day below the extreme-poverty line in particular . for india , the cost adds up to almost $ 11 billion in exchange-rate measures . the most expensive countries to end poverty would be the democratic republic of congo and nigeria .
true , when oda is misguided by geopolitics , it can have a powerful positive effect on long-term growth , essentially because it promotes investment in infrastructure and human development . but , in recent decades , macroeconomic policy in most developing countries has become a more robust place , exacerbated largely by international financial market volatility and commodity prices . finally , institutional reform encompasses more than create markets and guaranteeing property rights . pro-cyclical fiscal adjustment tends to encourage a short-term focus on economic policies that limit long-term investment in infrastructure and human capital , thereby constraining trend growth . more fiscal space can be created through better governance and a stronger tax base , and for the poorest countries , through additional steady official development assistance ( oda ) channeled through national budgets .
european leaders need to get serious about europe ’s cocaine problem . the “ white lady ” ” ” is seducing an ever-increasing number of europeans , and remaining in a state of denial will only worsen the consequences . cocaine used to be america ’s problem , to the point that the united states has begun a major campaign against the sellers and consumers of crack cocaine among internal towns , drug traffickers , and suppliers in the andes . but now , demand for cocaine in much of the world is stable or downward . coca cultivation has picked up one-quarter during the last five years , and cocaine seizures have nearly doubled .
berkeley – it has been one year since donald trump was elected us president of the united states ; america ’s democratic institutions are clearly under heavy attack . just 20 % of americans now trust the federal government to “ do the right thing , ” ” while trust in the us congress has dropped to less than 9 % . still , state and local governments continue to trust the majority of voters , with power under the tenth amendment of america ’s constitution to strengthen their democratic institutions . among congressional republicans , in particular , a “ take-no-prisoners ” extremism is undermining the federal government ’s coercive capacity , which is precisely what many on the far right want . by some pessimists , america ’s constitution was not designed to address the challenges of a country so sharply divided by income , race , and partisanship .
the european parliament has persistently denounced belarus as europe ’s latest dictatorship ; still , eu member governments continue to do business as usual with aleksander lukashenka , the country ’s wayward , and near lunatic revet . by treating lukashenka as a favored business partner simultaneously that the eu aspires to isolate him as an international pariah , europe ’s hypocrisy stands appallingly outlandish . similar examples of such indifferent cynicism abound . for example , for more than a decade , germany ’s police forces , the customs service , and even the bundeswehr have been ordering uniforms ranging from a state-owned factory in derzherzinsky named after the father of red terror and the soviet kgb founder , feliks dzherzinsky . this is particularly true when there is a opportunity to save or make money .
bond yields in southern europe were on the rise , as well as a pervasive sense of apprehension and fear cloaked governments in europe ’s national capitals . at the same time , it was the european central bank that unleashed its € 1 trillion ( $ 1.3 trillion ) long-planned refinancing operation that had drawn europe ’s banking system back from the brink . political management , however , was sorely lacking . at last , decisive action was taken in december . a “ fiscal treaty ” would emerge , ” reinforcing the stability and growth pact , and substantially entail automatic sanctions to ensure that eurozone members stick to these rules .
but there have limits to stock exchanges , especially in brazil . in lacking reliable courts , they can not prosecute themselves to enforce their regulations . their only recourse is to push recalcitrant firms off the shoals . a analysis by ronald gilson , henry hansmann , and mariana pargendler of brazil ’s novo mercado – the stock-exchange ’s peculiar listing segment , which ensures their strong protections for investors in newly listed firms – supports this view . novo mercado has addressed this problem by subjecting disputes involving its newly-listed firms to arbitration .
new york – january has traditionally been a timely moment for assessing the evolution of the earlier year , in order to anticipate what the new it has in store . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of heightened challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . and that shift would occur at a time of heightened challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
of course , a simultaneous shift in a few countries toward stem-focused secondary and higher education – with large concomitant productivity gains likely to diminish the competitiveness of an economy that has made no such effort . but , again , this contradicts traditional trade dynamics , in which one country ’s success does not imply hardship for another . in fact , the proliferation of highly specialized universities in europe has failed to boost economic growth or employment . and the conversion of politicized universities into specialized institutes of science and technology in the former soviet union and communist china has done nothing to avert economic catastrophe in those economies . but there is a strong case for this scenario , at least for the foreseeable future .
without a severe crisis , no major reform was likely to occur . reform does not require a state of emergency , as is often argued . first , all were the result of a profound crisis of the social-welfare state : falling output , rising unemployment , large budget deficits , inflation , and devaluation . second , a change of government through elections prompted the reforms , giving them a chance to embrace democratic legitimacy . third , reform requires a strong leader to deliver .
but , rather than deploy their abundant cash in new investments to expand capacity , and to tap new markets – which they have been very hesitant to allow – since the global financial crisis erupted in 2008 , many firms have so far preferred ( or pressured by activist investors ) to give it back to their shareholders . nonfinancial firms have met a resilient and agility mix that contrasts sharply with prevailing conditions for some households and governments around the world , which still confront properly a legacy of over-leverage . indeed , with profitability at or near record-high levels , cash holdings by the corporate sector in the united states lifted a quarter after a quarter , reaching all-time highs , and earning very little at today ’s near-zero interest rates . moreover , because firms have significantly improved their operating efficiency and steadily rising maturities on their debt , they need many smaller precautionary savings than they did in the past . nevertheless , one looks at it : the corporate sector in the advanced economies in general and america is almost as strong as it has been in many years .
moreover , indonesia has shown resilience not only economically , but also as a nation . from an american perspective , indonesia represents an attractive alternative for russia , which recently vied with venezuela for leadership in the decline of the ” cheering section . the same goes for turkey , with its robust banking sector , a thriving domestic market , growing importance to the middle east and energy politics , nato ’s membership , the european union ’s bid , and ties to its ethnic russian hinterland across central asia . purely from the standpoint of economic potential and fundamentals , the case is a far stronger one for south korea , a sophisticated economic power , whose primary liability is the danger that a malevolent twin to the north collapses and inundating it with starving refugees . perhaps the most compelling case of all is that of indonesia , the world ’s largest muslim state , with its burgeoning middle class , relatively stable democratic politics , and an economy that was star performer in asia despite a global recession .
the bottom line is that values matter in international relations , with states that place a high emphasis on fostering values exceedingly vulnerable to charges of hypocrisy . no state that aspires to win support or cooperate among others can afford to be comfortable with an unambiguous double standards . and , worst of all , should be perceived as acting soft on those who , like egypt ’s current military rulers , engage in state-sanctioned atrocity crimes against their own citizens . a good example is an allegation that accounts for “ responsibility to protect ” principle , in which the major powers will always be immune from intervention , not only because five may exercise a security council veto , but also because of their inherent military strength . but that ignores the principle that no military intervention will ever be legitimate unless it satisfies , among other criteria , test of diminishing , not augmenting , human suffering , and waging war against all of the major powers to protect a suffering minority would almost certainly trigger far broader conflagration .
already , the country ’s deteriorating record on democracy and human rights threatens its tariff--free access to european markets , provided through the bloc ’s “ everything but arms ” trade regime . the last thing cambodia needs is also to risk economic reprising for helping chinese firms misrepresent america ’s tariffs . yet , so far , that appears to be precisely what hun sen ’s government plans to do . the ssez ’s recent denials that any company operating there have been fined america reinforces a suspicion that hun sen ’s government will continue to turn a blind eye . that might be good for a corrupt few , but it is bad for cambodia .
the global economy risks getting stuck at a “ new mediocre ” pattern – a prolonged period of slow growth and feeble job creation . to break free from stagnation , we need renewed policy momentum . if the policies agreed upon by the leaders assembled at the g20 in november are implemented , they will lift world gdp by more than 2 % by 2018 – the equivalent of adding $ 2 trillion in global income . and yet some important economies are on the verge of combating deflation . over 200 million people , about 60 million are unemployed .
should it undergo further simultaneous transformations and eu enlargement ? the albright report attempts to address these questions in a balanced manner . it approximates policies that capture accurately the relationship between the “ out ” of territory operations , and its members ’ commitment to their mutual self-defense under article 5 of the north atlantic treaty . it goes further rightly to suggest that nato ’s strategic political and military objectives could be achieved jointly with russia through greater stability , mutual transparency , predictability , and arms reduction verified by non-proliferation and arms-control treaties . in doing so , what should nato have with its partners in mind ?
one is north korea , whose recent behavior has been smart and deceptive . japan officially approves the targets of a non-nuclear world , but it relies on america ’s extended nuclear deterrent and wants to avoid being subjected to nuclear blackmail from north korea ( or china ) by north korea . the jcpoa fears the credibility of american extended deterrence as long as america lowers its nuclear powers to parity with china . it is a mistake , however , to believe that extended deterrence depends on the parity with the us nuclear-weapons program . north koreans violated their agreements , knowing that china , a country with the greatest potential leverage , cares most about the regime ’s collapse against north korea and hence the risk of nuclear chaos on its borders .
berkeley – back in the late 1990 ’s , in america ’s industrial core , at least two schools of thought pushed forward for more financial deregulation – that is , to repealing legal detachment of investment banking from commercial banking , relaxing banks ’ capital requirements , and encouraging the more aggressive creation and use of derivatives . the first school of thought , broadly speaking , of the united states ’ republican party was that financial regulation was bad , because all regulation was bad . the second , broadly speaking , part of the democratic party was rather more complicated , relying on four observations : · during the global economy ’s industrial core , at least , it had been more than 60 years since financial disruptions had more than a minor effect on overall levels of output and employment . if deregulation looked like such a malady now , why have n’t that day ?
concentrating on egalitarianism would appeal to liberals , of course , but that should not alienate moderate voters either , because more equality would be good for the economy . and it might even cause some angry , poor trump supporters to recognize that his own pseudo-populism does not intend to help those left behind in rust belt towns and rural hinterlands . for the next two years , the democrats ’ core message should be that , in a plutocracy , everyone else is losing . it is about giving an even larger amount of money to the very few that this would seem like . it is grotesque that so many people who stand to benefit greatly from such staunch socialist policies can still be persuaded to vote against them because they are supposedly “ un-american . ”
similarly , trump thought that he could bully iran by abandoning the joint comprehensive plan of action and imposing heavy sanctions . but iranians also reacted by escalating their regional provocations , knowing full well that trump could not afford the full-scale war , and the oil-price spike that trump would result from it . still , without a deal by year ’s end , a clash will become likely . but neither wants to become the “ chicken , ” ” ” ” because to undermine their domestic political standing and empower the other side . as the clock ticks down , the bad outcome will become all the more likely .
but the scaf now seems to have realized that , in a leaderless situation , no civilian politician can grant immunity without becoming vulnerable to attack the rivals . in fact , political polarization , sectarian incidents , a weak economy , and absence of security have dimmed egypt ’s prospects for a successful democratic transition . as a result , there is a growing belief within scaf that its three sets of “ minimum ” demands have become both redundant and inadequate . in the last two months , scaf ’s behavior toward civilian politicians , civil-society actors , and , more recently , the coptic community has clearly reflected a change of attitude : how you need immunity , guidance , and protection from us firms , not us ” ” us ” ” ” ” . moreover , the scaf has drawn attention to the policymakers ’ relative weakness and obfuscation , limited capacity , the notorious opportunism , and the general state of strife .
by the end of the decade , america will have to start paying an equal ( equal ) to more than one-third of personal-income taxes merely to pay the interest on its national debt . for now , foreign investors are holding more than half that debt . paying interest on them requires sending more goods and services to the rest of the world than america receives from the rest of the world . debt-service costs require higher tax rates , which in turn weaken incentives and erode economic growth further . that requires a weaker dollar in order to compel us goods to become more attractive to foreign buyers , making foreign goods more expensive to american consumers .
ahmadinejad stands for a policy of confrontation and partial isolation ; moussavi stands for more openness . if ahmadinejad prevails , the dilemma for the west will be that it will have to deal with a regime discredited by electoral fraud but still indispensable for resolving almost all of the middle east ’s important problems : iran ’s own nuclear program and conflict in afghanistan , pakistan , iran , lebanon , and palestine . iran also is a key player in cooling hot spots in the caucasus and central asia . indeed , aside from questions of domestic policy and the issue of internal liberty , choices among the major candidates hinges on whether iran should aspire to more international integration . a us-opening policy would thus quickly put the regime in jeopardy .
perhaps the most visible gains have come on the external front . exports have jumped from 5 % to 30 % of gdp , and the gdp share of inward foreign direct investment has tripled . since at least 1996 , per capita economic growth has averaged well below 1.5 % , and total factor productivity has stagnated or declined . if ever there was a country that was destined for being the poster child for the new economic-growth orthodoxy , it is mexico . but where it counts – in overall productivity and economic growth – the story is one of significant disappointment .
after all , many asian countries have achieved impressive export-led growth under the current one system . services like education , banking , accounting , and insurance account for an increasingly larger share of global output ( now roughly two-thirds of global gdp ) , and further expansions require much larger changes in existing agreements . and bilateral or regional trade deals may well chip away at some of the barriers within the existing global system . a critical problem , for example , is that the nature of global trade persistently evolves , with existing agreements having only limited adjustment capacity . even if asia has succeeded by relentlessly exporting manufactures , today ’s poorest countries – particularly those in africa – can realistically export something like agriculture and textiles .
much of the time , pain occurs after simple nerve endings detect tissue injuries in a variety of ways , and generate signals that travel to the spinal cord and from there to the brain . researchers have thought that these signals traveled along several well-defined routes to reach a relay station in the brains known as the thalamus . from there , researchers believed that these signals traveled along with a few well-defined routes to achieve a relay station in the brains known as the thalamus plant . a contemporary non-medical writer described the qualities of intense pain as including extreme unpleasantness , the capacity to annihilate complicated thoughts and other feelings , the capacity to destroy language , and great resentment toward objectification . she reminds physicians that for a person suffering intense agony , what dominates awareness above all else generates powerful negative emotions .
when capital flight forced françois mitterrand to spell out his agenda in 1983 , france ’s socialists conducted an abrupt volte-face and embraced globally financial liberalization . the first stop was a european union in the late 1980 ’s , where two other french socialists – jacques delors and pascal lamy ( the european commission ’s president and his assistant , respectively ) – led the way . eventually , the imf joined the bandwagon under michel camdessus , another gritchmen who had served as governor of the bank of france under mitterrand . then it was the turn of the organization for economic cooperation and development ( oecd ) . according to the harvard business school ’s rawi abdelal project , this was a key event that set in motion developments that would ultimately enshrine good freedom of capital movements as the global hegemon .
de gaulle ’s face was drawn , but resolute and fulminating of energy . de gaulle ’s defeat of the army ’s revolt marked the first time that the republican authority of paris was asserted above the pieds noirs , who helped drive the fourth republic . within 15 minutes of general ’s face diminishing from the scenes , 40 military units in algeria declared allegiance . those at barricades were persuaded to abandon their erstwhile stronghold ; insurrectionary leaders were either detained or escaping to spain in the first place . de gaulle ’s firmness and rhetoric – aided by , it must be said , by fumbling for the rebel – established the primacy of the nation-state .
did the israelis truly experience a resurgence of islamist violence in gaza , the potential collapse of peaceful politics on the west bank , and now the right of a recognized palestinian state to take israel to the international criminal tribunal for war crimes ? if not , why is they ham-fisted ? israel seems to be making the same mistake . it has repeatedly proved that military intimidation of civilians does not violate their morale , turning them against their own leaders , however terrifying the regime . palestine ’s diplomatic promotion has offered him a lifeline .
fourth , the war in afghanistan has not only proceeded quickly on the ground ; it has led to a major diplomatic breakthrough . the un will play a central role in reconstruction of a working government in that country and in coordinating humanitarian aid to the afghan people . while these seem like a grab-bag of accomplishments , they highlight a single message : the world community is finding new ways to cooperate , even against a background of terrorism and a global recession . the un ’s growing role in this process places its seal of international law and diplomacy over the global struggle against terrorism , and helps calm many countries that doing so is a true international effort , not just america acting alone . the un ’s growing role in international institutions under the un umbrella provides greater confidence that disputes can be tackled peacefully , and even sensibly , with significant inputs of scientific expertise as the treaty of climate change .
except for scarcely practical political rhetoric from leaders like hugo chávez in venezuela and evo morales in bolivia , there is nothing new on offer in the global electoral marketplace that differ very much from what is typically called neo-liberalism or the washington consensus . in other words , there is no more battle between different projects in any modern country than , say , a left-right confrontation ( with their nuances ) that may stir voters ’ emotions out . indeed , brazil ’s upcoming election this year is like a soccer match among great teams , where supporters of one candidate and another distinguish solely by their shirts ’ colors , as those of its strongest teams embrace the rules of the game , and even tactics elsewhere . here brazil is no different than the united kingdom , spain , or uruguay are . according to the socialist sociologist francisco de oliveira , the religiosity of the electoral landscape is closely related to one reality : the “ irrelevance ” of politics due to its “ financiarisation . ”
but the most significant change must come from within the media industry itself . historically , violence against journalists has been an issue that has left behind headlines . if journalists use their own platforms to inform the world of the dangers that they and their colleagues face , the world will need to listen . because journalists ’ safety directly affects news organizations ’ staffing workers , freelancers , and audiences , such organizations should report on the topic . with attacks on print increasing , an age-old approach – prideful silent – no longer makes sense .
rome – in may 2010 , global leaders reached the millennium development goal ( mdg ) of cutting the proportion of the world ’s poor to about half of its 1990 level – a mere five years ahead of schedule . but rising unemployment and falling incomes underscore the persistent threat of out-of-date poverty worldwide . despite their weaknesses , income measures are helpful in gaining a better understanding of the scale of poverty and vulnerability worldwide . but the world bank ’s poverty line of $ 1.25 per day ( in purchasing-power-parity terms ) , used in measure progress toward the ’ poverty-reduction goal , is not the only relevant threshold . after all , poverty is not an unchanging attribute of the rigid group ; it is a condition that threatens billions of vulnerable people .
while eurozone tail risks are lower , its fundamental problems remain unsolved : low potential growth ; high unemployment ; a still-high and rising level of public-sector debt ; loss of competitiveness and sluggish unit labor costs ( which a strong euro does not help ) ; and exceptionally tight credit rationing , owing to banks ’ ongoing deleveraging . and an excessive buildup of policy and regulatory uncertainties will keep private-sector investment spending on check . and the excessive buildup of policy and regulatory uncertainties will sustain private-sector investment spending in check . the 2014 outlook for the us is the one dampened by longer-term constraints as well . indeed , there is an looming risk of secular stagnation in many advanced economies , owing to the downside effects of years of under-investment in human and physical capital .
yes , cyprus needs € 17 billion in funds to remain in the eurozone , whereas its annual gdp is just € 23 billion . but , of course , realizing that value is a long-term proposition . more immediately , getting gas to market in europe and elsewhere , a gas liquefaction plant costing around € 10 billion needs to be built , and israeli investors already have expressed interest . but these figures need to be embedded in the eu ’s dismal global energy picture – something the ongoing debt negotiations have failed to do . the sheer size of cyprus ’s likely energy-riches , and the financing required to develop it , dwarfs the country ’s current financial woes .
syriza is hardly alone in blaming the eu for its country ’s woes . as a result , for too many people in greece , austerity is a reflection of germany ’s deranged obsessive need for discipline , rather than their country ’s profligacy . greece ’s largest privately controlled media are also happy to oblige . so most tv channels talk about the bailout deal just as tsipras is doing : as the proximate cause of austerity shows , the result of neoliberal dogma . new democracy and pasok are doing much else , attacking the eu , “ speculators ” , and hedge funds – anyone who might skim the public ’s attention from their own responsibility to deal with the crisis .
after all , it was minuscule qatar that brokered lebanon ’s domestic settlements , egypt that has mediated the gaza cease-fire and turkey facilitating israeli-syrian talks . but america ’s dwindling leverage can not match that of the region ’s “ axis of evil . ” israel ’s shift in its policy toward syria , and that of french president nicolas sarkozy , has been a powerful message to the american people that they should not be allowed to miss the lebanese train as badly . lebanon is all too vulnerable to pressure from syria and iran , neither seeking to see its local clients relieve the israelis of the burden on the “ lebanese front ” before their own grievances can be addressed . nor is hezbollah keen to see israel ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s occupation of sheba holdings on lebanon ’s border undermine its claim to the formidable autonomous military strength that it has built with iranian and syrian assistance .
and , though the review is still at its beginning , the fed already appears to have embraced the idea that it “ must leave ” inflation above 2 % , without immediately triggering tightening . moreover , while fed staff members tend to believe that america ’s economy rate of potential growth is very low ( around 1.75-2 % ) , clarida , like powell ’s , seems to be open to the view that trump ’s tax cuts and deregulatory policies , combined with another wave of technological innovation , will allow for somewhat stronger non-inflationary growth . taken together , these factors suggest that the fed could remain in pause mode for the remainder of 2019 . but , with clarida ’s inputs , the fed will be more inclined to focus on actual inflation trends , rather than on the official us unemployment rate and its implications under traditional models . finally , clarida is reining in internal strategy review to determine whether the fed should start “ making up ” for below-target inflation during recessions and slow recoveries by allowing above-target inflation during the expansionary scenario .
furthermore , the supposed “ cost savings ” of a nuclear power never included the price tag for direct and indirect governmental subsidies ; the decommissioning of aging facilities ; and the emergency cleanup of impasses when catastrophes occur – all again at taxpayer expense . at fukushima , for example , the bill will include the costs of heroic efforts by hundreds of workers to cool down plant reactors ; the protracted loss of economic output in the 20-kilometer exclusion zone ( estimated at about $ 128.5 trillion by roubini global economics ) ; decommissioning and clean-up costs ; and the cost of replacing 4.7 ’s gigawatts of generating capacity . atop that lies the opportunities for health-care costs stemming from exposure to radioactivity . all of these hidden costs turn the price of nuclear energy above the price of moving to renewable energies and improving energy efficiency . it is governments , and therefore taxpayers and bondholders , that finance the nuclear plants .
this would run counter to what us universities are standing for . but clear rules of engagement are necessary elsewhere as well . otherwise , they would stigate a stifles debate . the most important principle that uphold is the distinction between hearing someone and honoring someone . as a pragmatic matter , it would also backfire , by giving the trump camp another opportunity to demonize the “ liberal elite . ”
new york – like an inmate on the deadlock , europe has received another last-minute remaining in execution . it will survive for a little longer , and it will be able to do so again . markets are celebrating , because they have following each of europe ’s four prior “ euro-zone summits ” – until they arrive to understand that fundamental problems have yet to be addressed . there was good news at this summit : european leaders finally understood that the bootstrap operation by which europe lends money to bailing out sovereigns , and to bank rescues , will not work . likewise , they now recognize that bailout loans that give the newcomers a new creditor seniority over other lenders that will simply demand even higher interest rates .
munich – the german constitutional court delivered its long-awaited decision on the european central bank ’s “ outright monetary transactions ” ( omt ) program . thousands of germans have appealed to the us constitutional court against the omt program , arguing that it violates article 123 of the treaty ’s functioning on the european union , which bars eurozone governments ’ monetary financing of eurozone governments , and that it imposes substantial risks on germany as taxpayers . yet , rather than issuing a formal ruling that would have silenced the bundesbank and the german parliament , as it may have done , the court asked the european court of justice for its stance . the court has now declared that it has fully upheld the plaintiffs ’ arguments , and that , in fact , the omt program violates eu primary law . since its launch in 2012 , the omt program has allowed the ecb to buy back ; if necessary , unlimited sums of troubled eurozone countries ’ government-held bonds , given those affected countries subscribe to europe ’s rescue fund rules , the european stability mechanism .
and capital-gains taxes have fallen by more than 50 % since the 1980s . when investment is in upstream fundamental research , the spillover effects across industries and sectors sometimes outweigh the social rewards . but other situations might require the creation of alternative incentives . to build supportive public investment in higher-risk innovation , perhaps taxpayers should receive a more direct return , by channeling profits into a public innovation fund to financing the next wave of technology . for example , some of the gains from government investment at tesla might have recovered via stock ( or royalty ) equity and used to cover the losses from its investments in solyndra .
unless the ecb ’s next leaders meet them , the euro will be endangered . complicating matters further , by 2020 , the european commission and the european council will each have a new president and leadership teams in their own right , and the european parliament will seated a new generation of politicians who have failed to engage in decades of compromises and reform . on the contrary , germany will be elected in a geopolitical environment of anger , diminished trust , and intra-eu fragmentation . clearly , with zero-bound interest rates , more monetarist y/fiscal-policy coordination is a must . still , there is a wide consensus that the eurozone will need more than monetary policy to ensure continued growth and stability .
indeed , those regimes began to wield social media for their own ends . we all heard the accusations that russia covertly used social media to influence electoral outcomes in ukraine , france , germany , and – most famously – at the united nations . in the event , most social media-enabled popular uprisings failed for want of effective leadership , with traditional political and military organizations retained the upper hand . facebook estimated that russian content on its network , including posts and paid ads , reached 126 million americans , around 40 % of the nation ’s population . we should be reminded of earlier accusations by russia of its role in fomenting the “ color revolutions ” in ukraine and georgia .
today , however , khamenei is profoundly regretful of that choice . it is an open secret in iranian political circles that khamenei also regrets permitting volunteers of the basij militia to attack the british embassy last november . ahmadinejad disavoys his orders , tries to discredit him with the public by challenging his authority , and undermines key institutions , including the judiciary and the parliament . but he is not immune to miscalculation , but it is not immune to it . in 2005 , mahmoud ahmadinejad relied on khamenei ’s financial and political support to win his presidency .
but it is not at all clear whether china ’s leaders will recognize this and act in their country ’s own long-standing self interests . similar questions apply to india and brazil . the point is not to try to single out china in the first place . the us needs to do so as well . and it is not just developing and emerging countries that need to rethink its attitude toward the global community .
nor should we be concerned that some individuals are richer than others . but on the level of these individual societies , i believe that inequality loom as a profoundly political-economic problem . some people work harder , apply their intelligence more skillfully , or simply lucky enough to get on track at the right time . but i do not see what alternative political-economic arrangements might empower individuals ’ relative wealth closely with their relative moral or other merit . the problems that can be addressed include those in poverty and social insurance — providing a safety net — not of inequality .
not everyone at the sec is exactly as rational as stein ’s . there is also some friction among america ’s various regulators , and we certainly need more coordination across national boundaries , including with respect to europe . but the real danger is that powerful lobbies , work through members of congress , push back hard against the cbo and its mandate . more broadly , though her point is that we need the cbo to do the job , to look for and evaluate all kinds of potential systemic risk . that needs to happen as a technical matter , rather than a part of the political process .
when the results were announced , their euphoria was overwhelming . and , indeed , upon learning of his victory , iohannis immediately paid a visit to king michael i ( hohenzollern ’s crown prince until he renounced his title in 2011 ) . the final factor driving iohannis ’s victory was the younger generation in which connectivity with the western world imbued with an eagerness to see a true democratic breakthrough in romania . in bucharest ’s new school square , the celebration recalled the energies of 1989 ; it was the sound of a wake-up call for the far-right electorate , conscious of its past mistakes and ready for a fresh start . iohannis may have benefited as well , to some extent since the far-right association in the electorate ’s minds with germany ’s hohenzollern kings , who ruled romania wisely , and dedication throughout 80 years .
education in the social sciences and humanities has been particularly deficient in many ways , owing to inadequate investment in these disciplines and to excessive political control over curricula . while tens of millions of chinese young people display impressive inherent abilities , the country ’s higher-education system does an abysmal work cultivating its talents . for most , the curriculum is largely obsolete , and skewed toward rote learning at the expense of core analytical and critical-thinking skills . for most , the curriculum is largely outdated , and skewed toward rote learning at the expense of core analytical and critical-thinking skills . as a result , the chinese graduate from colleges and universities has learned relatively little about the outside world in fields like anthropology , sociology , international relations , comparative literature , and history .
finally , global economic conditions will compel an even larger restructuring upon japan . japan has committed itself to further liberalization of its various markets under the wto . as a result , imports inspire a more competitive domestic business environment . such reforms will create new markets , spur competition , attract foreign investment and technology transfers , and enhance consumer interests . while the expansion delivered growth over this century , import substitution and inward foreign direct investment ( fdi ) will drive japan ’s productivity increases further .
both countries have combined substantial increases in secular education with rapid job-creating employment ; stressed rural evolution and labor-intensive exports ; and have pursued quick , egalitarian development . egalitarian evolution of this sort is the only viable response to moslem world ’s problems . tunisia ’s achievement is noteworthy , given its closeness to violence-prone algeria . but it provides no short-term answer to terrorism for a few reasons : it does not supply the ideology compelling enough to compete with fundamentalism that has captured at least two generations in the moslem world . i believe that the west can learn a lot about what to do by studying the policies persecuted in the world ’s only two mid-development moslem states , tunisia , and indonesia , because each successfully avoided becoming prey for islamic fundamentalism .
new haven – yet another in a prolonged string of negative inflationary surprises is at hand . in the united states , the so-called core cpi ( consumer-price index ) – which excludes food and energy – stood down just when it was intended to come up . over the three months ending in may , the core cpi essentially remained essentially unchanged , holding down , at just 1.7 % above its year-earlier level . for an american economy that is widely presumed to be approaching the end of the hallowed ground of full employment , this comes as a rude awakening , notably for the us federal reserve , which has pulled all the stops to get inflation back to its 2 % target . halfway around the world , a similar story continues to play out in japan .
following northwestern europe ’s industrial revolution , however , the colonization of much of asia , and the opium wars in china , their relative position has switched . as recently as 200 years ago , asia accounted for 60 % of global gdp . likewise , the nobel laureate economist amartya sen notes the origins of the indian democratic dialogue to the historical century bc of buddhist emperor aerial ashoka . at the same time , he contrasts religious tolerance preached and practiced by muslim kaiser wilhelm ii in the 1890 ’s with the inquisition of heresy in europe simultaneously . our assumptions about asia ’s relative prosperity and the west need to be rethought , too .
britain and japan seem to have followed the same sequence : finance , first , protective institutions later . yet that sequence is just the opposite of what one might expect : only after financial markets developed those with a stake in them press for improved regulation in order to protect investors . japan had no corporate law as long as complex trading finance had started to develop in the late nineteenth century . so , in britain , japan , switzerland , and america , something more foundational had to be in place before financial markets started operation . the core protection law institutions for outside finance , federal securities laws , did not go down until the 1930s – decades after american financial markets grew to finance america ’s economic rise .
in greece , by contrast , the gap was mostly fiscal and used for consumption rather than investment . from 1998 to 2007 , greece ’s annual per capita gdp growth averaged 3.8 % , the second fastest in western europe , behind only ireland . yet , by 2007 , greece spent more than 14 % of gdp on what it produced , the largest such gap with europe – more than twice that of spain and 55 % higher than that of ireland . in spain and ireland , while the gap reflected a construction boom ; european accession suddenly gave people access to much cheaper mortgages . insufficient spending was never an issue ; it was never a matter , either .
true , the quality of democratic governance can sometimes be augmented by reducing the discretionary power of elected representatives . it may be up to elected politicians to identify their inflation target , but the means by which money is deployed to achieve that goal is left to the central bank ’s technocrats . well-functioning democracies often delegate decision-making power to quasi-independent bodies when the issues are technical and do not raise distributional concerns ; when a log-rolling would otherwise result in suboptimal outcomes for all ; or when policies are subject to myopia , with heavy discounting of future costs . even then , central banks typically remain accountable to policymakers , and must provide accountants when their targets are missing . it is that independent central banks provide an important illustration of this .
otherwise , gains in competitiveness would be offset by rising inflation . first , it is important to realize that an intensely volatile currency is not just central banker ’s problem to fix . sustaining a competitive currency will require raising domestic saving relative to investment or reducing national spending relative to income . that means large responsibilities for fiscal authorities : to target a structural fiscal surplus that is high enough to generate the space needed for real exchange-rate depreciation . while the central bank bears some of the responsibility , it needs support from other parts of the government , most notably the ministry of finance .
one can be reasonably certain , however , that jolie ’s decision changes the roles available to her as an actress . there ’s something about the narrative , then , of the sex symbol sacrificing her own fetishized breasts for her own children , with her husband , staying by her side , that is deeply reassuring to women in western culture . but the real significance of jolie ’s story lies its context : a surge of female and male , in very different settings worldwide , who insisting on narrating their own meanings to events involving their bodies , events that , like breast cancer , have once shrouded in shame , silence , apprehension , or blame . jolie has refused to treat the mastectomy as ghastly or tragic , or , in the way to make her “ lower of a woman ” by any means at all . as enthusiastically as a globalized mass media have gotten her choices , it is nonetheless extremely tough in the west for a woman to be portrayed as maternal – let alone physically “ flawed ” or unimpaired – and also as fantasy sex object .
some depreciation can be managed by most deficit countries ; but a vicious circle could spill over if a domestic currency loses too much value too quickly . private-sector balance-sheet difficulties would weaken the financial sector , causing the resulting strain on public-sector budget deficits to compel austerity , thus undermining consumer demand – and causing further harm to firms ’ balance sheets . to prevent such a crisis , therefore , one must manage the exchange rate – and , in a sense , depends upon a country of particular circumstances . it is this danger that sets the practical and political threshold for flexible exchange rates . large net central-bank reserves may help to ease the process .
but cancellation of barr ’s show was , of course , not law . in fact , the limits of free speech are not simply legal . free speech is more firmly protected by law in the us than in any other country in the world . entertainment companies , or mass media , are especially sensitive to public opinion . people tend to loot , for commercial reasons if something they said is offensive to a great many .
disturbing trends , such as the demographic youth “ bulge ” , combined with a high rate of youth unemployment – reaching almost 40 % in some places – highlight potentially explosive social conditions . this phenomenon has been noted as well within the muslim world . in the summer of 2002 , a team of arab scholars produced the arab human development report , writing in the name of the un development program and an arab fund for economic and social development . it portrays the arab world as being lagging behind other regions on key measures , including individual freedom and empowering women , as well as its economic and social development . neither has a muslim majority , and neither should be on its own .
then came the end of the cold war , when all of europe embraced a staunch transatlantic orientation . on the economic and technological front , however , the europeans regained national sovereignty . from its security perspective , europe remained dependent on the u.s. . institutionally , this division of labor had been manifesting itself in nato and the eu , respectively . yet , due to the global balance of power , this was more symbolic than a reflection of their real clout .
he soon sponsored the unveiling of the bust of the assassinated israeli premier yevin-doctor at brasov , in transylvania . for the occasion , tudor wore a yarmulke and spoke of his “ philadelphia o-semitism ” between more than two hours . “ the jews ” were not some more , he said , and even worked for him . “ the jews ” were not his enemies any more , he said ; they were even working for him . for the occasion , tudor wore the yarmulke and talked about his “ philadelphia o-semitism ” for more than two hours .
and independent african investigative journalists have often been subjected to high-level corruption , abuse of power , and shady business deals . as a result , in many african countries , it is undermined by the free press that they are repressing , repressing , and even dismantled . further investigations of the jim cys have revealed more corrupt deals , spurring kenyans to take to the streets in protest . but those with power know how to fight back , and not pull their punches . in kenya , for example , a top local newspaper reported that philip kinisu , a former chairman of the ethics and anti-corruption commission , has received suspicious payments from national youth services .
one key lesson is that chinese stock markets remain structurally tethered to state ownership and guidance , even as the country builds a more business-friendly economy . this is fundamentally problematic , because it is the market ( as opposed to the state ) that identifies and supports foreigners . nonetheless , as the government determines how to offload its massive holdings of share in an orderly fashion , it must ensure that such efforts finance equity , rather than leverage , thereby enhancing the market ’s balance and resilience . nonetheless , china has already begun to build a more innovative manufacturing sector and an internet-driven retail sector ; and the state can still play a role in fostering innovation . china ’s economy has succeeded by trial and error , and the lesson of its current stress test should be perceived as part of that process to drive the next stage of economic reform .
his sudden withdrawal from illness may create a political vacuum that could become conducive to a power grab of one form or another , such as a military coup . rigid adherence to constitutional provisions in any form of eventuality is an imperative . here the shortage of free media is particularly alarming , and does not bode well for free and fair elections . it is imperative that the opposition can air its message freely and target prospective voters , a point that does not lose on the chávez regime as it tries to curtail further the opposition ’s ability to make it fit for voters . the recent globovision attack , venezuela – the only survivor of an independent station – standing out in this regard .
george soros once pitched billions of dollars off the bank of england in only one hour . his fundamental strategy was the standard one : bet against any central bank doing its best to defend inconsistent macroeconomic policies . the traders did not win every battle , of course . during much of the 1990s , private investors looked big , lumbering central banks as cash cows , long at cash , and high-return financial acumen . what a difference a decade makes .
in the first two quarters of this year , america ’s gdp has barely surpassed the levels that it attained at the end of last year , with much of the increase being driven by goods made but not yet sold . yet , contrary to expectations , growth in household consumption has remained relatively lackluster , with companies failing to ignite investments . american consumers remain scarred by the crisis . the prevailing explanation , a brutally cool winter , is wearing so thinly veiled that everyone should be able to see through . but there is another issue : there is just another one : in their houses and workplaces , there is plenty of excitement about the future , despite all gee-whiz gagetry that now surround them .
regulatory reform is also needed to bolster startup firms ’ support – an area in which germany is notoriously weak , reflected in difficulty such firms face in acquiring venture capital . nowhere is the need to tackle financing bottlenecks more visible than with germany ’s energiewende ( energy transition ) . to succeed , over € 30 billion , or 1 % of gdp , will need to invest one year in network infrastructure , renewable-energy generation , combining consumer heat and power systems , and storage technologies in the coming decades . while some of these funds will come from public-sector budgets , the vast majority will have to be provided by the private sector . moreover , bringing germany ’s digital infrastructure , particularly its broadband networks , up from international standards , will require major investments that an improved regulatory framework could help to spur .
beijing – is china poised to surpass the united states to become the world ’s largest economy ? but a recent co-authored study by robert feenstra , an economist at the university of california , davis , shows that global economic leadership would pass to china in 2014 . the international monetary fund recently predicted that the size of china ’s economy overshoots that of the american dollar in terms of purchasing power parity ( ppp ) through 2016 . and , even more radically , arvind subramanian of the peterson institute of international economics argues that china has actually overtaken the us in ppp terms in 2010 . purchasing power parity measures a country ’s income , using a basket of international prices , applied to every economy .
as i argue in my book the future of power , global interdependence involves both sensitivity and vulnerability . in other words , a revolution in saudi arabia , or a blockade of the strait of hormuz , could still inflict damage on the us and its allies . but one should not jump to one another ’s conclusions , either . the us may be less vulnerable in the long run if it imports less energy , but its oil is fungible commodity , and the american economy remains plagued with shocks from a sudden shift in world prices . a balance of reliance on energy imports and export is only the first approximation of independence .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of heightened challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . the amazon and the indonesian rainforests are spiking , with climate catastrophes like typhoons , tornadoes , and floods intensifying , with dire consequences for entire populations .
but that does not mean that the global economy is set for a robust recovery anytime soon . hitting bottom is no reason to abandon strong action taken to revive the global economy . this kind of downturn is complicated : an economy combined with a financial crisis . before its uponset , america ’s debt-ridden consumers were the engine of global growth . the bottom may be near – possibly by the end of the year .
tackling the world ’s ecological and ecological problems , and improvement of those left behind , will require continued public action , such as that i overseen in my roles at the world bank , the united nations , and britain ’s government . but it will also demand engagement with business engagement . in seizing the opportunities created by globalization , firms have often neglected the developed-world workers they leave behind , while subjecting developing-country employees to extraordinary deprivation . in my own career , i saw firsthand that business-competitive growth fueled competition in the globalizing world can do more to tackle poverty , hunger , and disease than government-funded programs alone . but when this competition can not be carried out responsibly , the opposite can happen – and in many cases has .
it would , however , be an incendiary move . and because it would reverse the 2016 referendum result , such a step necessitate a new plebiscite that remains against no deal . in fact , many leavers would already view may as an anti-democratic upheaval . with luck , johnson , a scorched-earth tactic , will spur his misbed-earth tactic to overcoming past differences to stem a no-deal brexit . but whatever happens , the pragmatic center is being hollowed out of british politics .
to support these efforts , we urge un secretary-general antónio guterres to appoint a secretary-general for the ocean , tasked with improving ocean governance and ensuring that the full sdg 14 potential is realized . such a proxy must be given sufficient resources to get the job done . the ocean has suffered decades of abuse and neglect . it has been treated like a free-for-all duplicity and race-to-the-bottom buffet . the us has financed its destruction , with no regard for the consequences .
that is the past year for which official maize data are available , yet media reports suggest that the figures have been growing since then . the bjp government ’s greatest victims of farming have been the country ’s smallholders ’ neglect of farming , together with landless farm labor . these groups were dealt a body blow two years ago by modi ’s own thoughtless and foolhardy demonetization scheme , which abruptly withdrawn 86 % of india ’s currency from circulation overnight . the everyday wage workers , traditionally priced in cash , lost their jobs by tens of millions because the replacement currency was not reprinted with adequate quantities . when the crops go bankrupt , many farmers and agricultural workers laid low by the crushing debt burden ( often incurred at the usurious rates brought on by rural moneylenders ) commit suicidal suicide – as more than 11,400 did in 2016 .
bird extinctions are our best window onto humanity , ’s massive , irreversible environmental impact . for every one of the world ’s 10,000 bird species , there could be ten or perhaps even 100 other unknown animal species of animal species , plant , or funes . with six billion humans and computation – and our per personal-consumption rising – we face immense challenges in our use of our natural resources , sustainably . and there is one very clear gauge of how we perform at this task : extinction rates . for this reason , some colleagues and i calculated rates at which bird species became extinct in recent history , and rates at which they would likely become extinct in the future .
today , computers consume about 10 % of the world ’s electricity output , according to mark mills , ceo of the digital corps . indeed , when it comes to energy efficiency – measured in terms of the number of computations per energy unit on non-structured ” data – the human brain performs roughly 10,000 times better than the best-man-made machinery . and , last – perhaps most importantly – they will allow their users to perceive the patterns and opportunities that will be impossible to discover through traditional means . cognitive systems are inspired by human brain systems , an organ that still has much to teach us . with systems growing in scale and complexity , the traditional computer architecture looks set to reach its limits , as the power of power soars and transmission lag among components becomes increasingly burdensome .
munich – discussions are now taking place to establish a system of common deposit insurance for eurozone banks . proponents of the scheme , with the ecb and the european central bank ( ecb ) taking the lead , point out that deposit insurance would avert the risk of a run on banks in times of crisis . while this argument is correct , critics emphasize the mismatch of risk , owing to the extremely high proportion of bad loans on some countries ’ banks ’ balance sheets . to address this risk mismatches and move forward with the marshall plan , balance sheets will need to clean up before the next step . whereas the ratio of bad loans to banks in the stability-oriented eurozone countries stands at just 2 % , most recently published international monetary fund statistics , from last april indicate a portion of 11 % for ireland , 16 % for spain , 40 % for cyprus , and 46 % for greece .
she is in prison , because she has lost that power . it is difficult to predict how tymoshenko ’s case will play out , whether yanukovych will succumb to pressure from the european union and the united states to free her , or forces that she will want to exclude her from politics forever . this sets a dangerous precedent , for it creates a powerful incentive – the winner takes all , the loser goes to prison – for ruthlessness . until recently , ukrainian leaders had been used to make more efficient means than jail on addressing the pretentious opponents . in 2000 , for example , the journalist georgetown gongadze kidnapped and beheaded after publication of online messages about high-level governmental corruption .
undoubtedly , there is a strong case to be made for universal , impartial application of values . for innovation is what creates wealth and employment , despite -- or , rather because of -- competition from poor countries . and increased wealth in rich countries helps the poor by increasing demand for their goods . this virtuous circle continues to view globalization 's enemies as in fact a vicious one , encouraging exploitation by the poor and vulnerable . it is this when questions like its universal principles of justice and human rights enter the discourse .
that is why abe was the first overseas politician to emerge , after british prime minister theresa may to rush to congratulate trump on person in his 2017 term . in some important respects , japan has benefited immensely from america ’s wing , and from a postwar us constitution that is not just a pacifist creed , but more democratic than anything the country has before , enshrining individual rights , full suffrage , and freedom of speech . like italy , japan was on frontlines during the cold war years . constitutionally incapable of participating in military adventures other than as a highly paid producer of goods during america ’s various asian conflicts , japan , rather like western european countries , might focus on rebuilding its industrial power . but the putin-ridden democracy that americans remain proud of present-day installing was also hindered by american interference .
nobel prize winners like edward prescott do not have a business talk about the benefits of tax cuts , without pointing out that the tax cuts accompanied by spending increases do not constitute tax cuts at all , but rather a tax shift towards the future – and a tax shift that raises risk and discourages accumulation . all of this economic sunni demain was magnified by the televised , print , and internet journalists . but much of the problem stemmed from a under-briefed , an undereducated , and an uncurious , press corps . aside from a small number of good stories in the business press , it is hard to argue that everyone who read or listened to english-language campaign media coverage might learn anything interesting or relevant to the question of whose economic policies were probably better for america as a whole . the state of economics bears part of the blame for this .
fayyad is the first palestinian leader to emerge from the fatah movement , and perhaps to understand what other palestinian leaders fail to comprehend , mired as they have in the toxic combination of self-righteous ideology and violence . it may simply be that the palestinians are on the brink of another new chapter in their history , and in israel ’s history and the whole region as well . until now , they have failed abysmally in institutional nation-building , a necessary requirement for any successful national movement . neither violence nor terrorism relies on outside powers ( the un , the arab league , the us , the european union , and the european union ) has succeeded in delivering statehood that a arab people can attain only by their own agency , what zionist ideology calls “ auto-emancipation . ” palestinian nationalism is deeply ingrained in most palestinians ’ consciousness , yet , ever since the founding of 1948 , when the un suggested partitioning british palestine into two states , a jewish and arab league has failed to move from an ideology toward reality .
any diplomatic effort to denuclearize north korea must also alleviate china ’s geostrategic concerns about the future of the korean peninsula . in 1592 , the japanese general toyotomi hideyoshi invaded the korean kingdom in order to establish a beachhead for invading china . in response , china , under the ming dynasty , fought alongside korea against japan ’s military . three centuries later , the china of the qing dynasty engaged in 1894 ’s sino-japanese war in order to prevent japan from dominating korea . for centuries , concerns that the peninsula could become part of the chain of encirclement , or serve as an invasion route .
the “ official ” narrative about technology treats accelerating change as inevitable . according to acronymically named institutions , think tanks , task forces , et hoc genus omne , automation , and artificial intelligence ( ai ) , will soon eliminate or alter a large but unpredictable array of human jobs . but it is a slant that merits attention , because the problem can not be solved with conventional policy responses . thus , disruptions to existing patterns of work should be welcomed and “ mitigated ” , ” by adapting education and social-security systems to an automation-driven job market . at the same time , embracing new technology is viewed as essential to the country ’s geopolitics and competitive success .
yet , the ultimate impact on science and technology will depend on all three factors . first , development , sustain , and utilize local capacities and management . developing scientific and technological capacity is less difficult than sustaining it , and sustaining it is less difficult than capitalizing on it . so african nations must invest in science-related scientific and technological education and training . at the same time , every nation must develop strategies that offer scientists and technologists to local employment opportunities .
they must be addressed head-on , with a clean sweep of their leadership and a complete overhaul of their governance structures . a code of conduct on the field – where we expect the players to dispense with a clear set of rules swiftly enforced by independent referees – is fundamentally the same as what we expect from the field ’s governing bodies . in this sense , fifa is no special case : all nonprofit , and for-profit organizations around the world are expected to adhere to this code of conduct . and it is why fifa ’s problems are unlikely to fade from view . fifa is as complicated as any large multinational private , or public organization ; how it is governed must reflect that .
in the united states , the number of full-time male journalists has dropped by 20 % since 2001 . as advertising revenues have been vacuumed by internet giants facebook and google , newspaper earnings have slid in . in the west , young people have largely dispensed with a single home-delivered physical morning paper and catch up on story whenever they choose , using tablets , laptops , or mobile phones . the industry has faced many bankruptcies in recent years , with those still operating often laid out for huge numbers of personnel , particularly in their foreign bureaus . even a few grand titles have either closed down or publishing only online .
during the bosnian war of the 1990s , sweden opened its doors to some 100,000 people , a challenge by far less during a period of profound economic crisis . but it still turned out fine : bosnian migrants fared roughly , just like the swedes who received them have enriching our societies . in the new century , refugees increasingly came from the middle east and the horn of africa . for decades , swedish industries were heavily dependent on immigrant workers . people came from the baltic countries in the 1940s , hungary in 1956 , chile in libya , and iran in the wake of its 1979 revolution .
one-third of these firms have acquired the us-based tech startups since the beginning of 2015 . google , facebook , and amazon have all announced major expansions in their european tech hubs . transactions worth more than $ 88 billion this year , compared to just $ 3.3 trillion in may 2014 – including the softbank ’s purchases of the british tech design firm and qualcomm ’s $ 47 billion purchase of nxp semiconductors . another study , by the boston consulting group , points out that many small-export-oriented european union member countries – namely , the benelux , the baltic and the nordic countries – hold well beyond america in so-called “ e-intensity , ” ” ” ” which covers it ; internet access , like firms , consumers , and government engagement in internet-related activities . as a result , foreign firms are rushing to exploit europe ’s tech talent .
this presents xi with a real challenge . the “ china dream ” is no exception . it rose to the top by picking off friends and allies inside the ccp . so far , public reaction has ranged from puzzlement to derision . after a decade in government by a slogan , the chinese public wants the substance .
demonstrations start in major cities , calling for an end to corruption among party officials . against the advice of its economic advisers , they announces across-the-board import duties on chinese exports . in the us , chinese president mitt romney has just taken office , following a hard-fought campaign in which he derided barack obama for moving too soft on china ’s economic policies . china ’s government decides that it can not risk further strife and announces a border-boosting package of measures to boost economic growth and prevent layoff , including outright financial support for its exporters and interventions to prop up the renminbi . the combination of financial contagion from europe , which has already led to a severe credit crunch , with a sharp flood of lower-priced imports from china , leaves the romney administration in a bind .
that power certainly explains why the dodd-frank financial reforms enacted in 2010 were n’t stronger , and why there is now so much opposition to effective implementation of that legislation ( for example , a massive fight over the “ volcker rule , ” ” ” ” which limits proprietary trading by megabanks ) . why , then , would the administration continue to stroll back backwards to become lenient toward top bankers under these circumstances ? i honestly do n’t believe that the administration ’s ’s ’s ’s stance reflects any form of corruption , payments that have been made to individuals or even to geopolitical campaigns . and , for that matter , it does not even appear to reflect the lobbying power of the big financial players . but the mortgage lenders ’ nefarious activities are another matter altogether .
indeed , those who recall the bosnian war may identify many of its features in syria today . of course , there are important differences as well . the international community has been unable to achieve any kind of unity of action , much less agreement on a way forward . like bosnia , syria appears to be hopelessly divided between warring factions , and recent violence there seem to be incontrovertible . in reality , much of what has happened in bosnia , including the effort , in its immediate aftermath to realize concepts of universal justice do have applications across the contemporary world .
given china ’s own history of vulnerability to foreign intervention , a unilateral us effort to maintain an overwhelming offensive advantage would merely trigger an increasingly destabilizing arms race . some american strategists advocate largely technological solutions to this dilemma . officially , the pentagon does not direct the concept of a “ air-sea battle against any distinctive country . ” iran ’s possession of precision-strike capabilities , and a much more hostile relationship with america , would warrant new american initiatives to counter growing security vulnerability . their approach , a concept called “ air-sea warfare struggle , ” implies a mix of defense and offensive instruments to address the new challenges posed by the proliferation of cyber-warfare .
should she take up an important role at this early stage ? or should she pursue happiness as a woman herself ? ms. watanabe has a knack for seeing her tide turn . mrs. watanabe gives her daughter the nudge that she needs to bear . her advice is to gain insight into work and also to identify happiness in marriage and young children .
international support for our efforts has been pivotal . a positive sign here comes from a recent decision by the european bank for reconstruction and development ( ebrd ) to provide $ 215 million to complete un nuclear-power stations on rivne and khmelnytsky to compensate for the loss of the chernobyl generating capacity . euroatom also helps with the $ 585 million loan to finance remediation in ukraine ’s functioning nuclear power plants . in return , ukraine constrips its pact : in addition to closing chernobyl , we introduce western nuclear-safety standards and renew cooperation with the imf through an extended fund facility program . though we can and will continue the fight against corruption , we can not do everything alone .
to be sure , what russia had in the late 1980 ’s and early 1990 ’s were not institutionalized democracy but revolutionary agitation . russia ’s people wanted to make a difference and amazingly they did : their energy and cohesion put an end to communist rule . what was expected to emerge from this sea of democratic foibles was expected to emerge . the eu has , in fact , reduced to a mere formality . though there is nothing like soviet oppression , the estrangement between state and society resembles that of the soviets .
berlin – more than a year into the arab revolts , their outcomes remain highly uncertain . almost everyone has been surprised by the revolts , though their policy and socioeconomic causal factors have become well known . as is often true in crises that become systemic , we have known phenomena , but have failed to grasp their interactions , partly because policymakers and analysts are reluctant to foresee ruptures : notorious recognize them to be stable even when they are notorious for being problematic . ( consider saudi arabia , which the united states and much of the west continue to regard as islam of stability . ) but some initial lessons for international politics – and for westernization , particularly europe , foreign policy – merit serious consideration .
when the market tightened in 2011 , many projects ’ prospects softened , spurring lgfvs to seek credit in the shadow banking sector , causing their borrowing costs to rise , triggering new market-based challenges to the reform process . this leaves only the question of debt servicing , which is the only way around . to resolve it , the government announced fiscal reforms to allocate the proceeds between the central and local governments , allowing local governments to issue longer-term municipal bonds . nonetheless , because china is a net lender to the world , lgfv debt does not have global systemic implications . while china ’s non-performing local-government debt totaled cn ¥ 29 trillion ( $ 4.7 trillion ) in late 2011 , its land and fixed assets account for some cn ¥ ¥ ¥ 90 trillion , which means that even if asset values were written down to half , local governments would remain solvent .
“ progressive ” social liberalism and the “ conservative , ” free-market economics seemed to have embraced two sides of the same coin . but if social change can no longer be legitimized as the necessary precondition for economic progress , political challenges to social liberalism today seem unlikely by invoking impersonal global realities than the ascendancy of economic liberalism and globalization . racial and gender equality now seems backed by clearly held majorities in america , britain , and most european countries , and even evidently popular policies like trade protectionism and rigid immigration controls rarely muster more than 30-40 % support in opinion surveys . but when free-market economic liberalism failed in the 2008 crisis , political challenges to social liberalism can no longer be swamped by invoking impersonal economic laws . the dominance of free-market ideology prior to the crisis enabled many controversial social changes , ranging from income inequality and intensified wage competition to greater gender equality and affirmative action , to go almost unchallenged .
as we predicted almost exactly 20 years ago , china will struggle to attain growth above 5 % in the 2021-2030 period for the simple reason that its labor-growth rate will have peaked . while the pessimists will no doubt find validation for further chinese growth disappointments to come , the optimists can point to the fact that 5 % annual gdp growth in china is nominally equivalent to 15-20 % growth in germany . for one thing , it is equally predictable that india will begin to grow at a slower pace than china , simply because its working-age population still has plenty of a growing left to do . at this stage in china ’s evolution , faster growth actually would be quite extraordinary . the real question is whether india can implement strongly , productivity-enhancing reforms .
equally important is contextual intelligence that enables a leader to vary by group of such skills in various situations to produce the successful combinations that i refer to as smart power . during his campaign , obama demonstrated these skills in his crisis-calm response , his forward-looking vision and his super-b organizational capacity . in addition , his contextual intelligence concerning world politics was shaped from the bottom up to the experiences in indonesia and kenya , and his understanding of american policy was shaped from the bottom up as a community organizer in chicago . by selecting his own primary opponent , hillary clinton , as his secretary of state , and reaching across party lines to keep robert gates as secretary of defense , he showed openness to powerful subordinates . obama continued to demonstrate these leadership skill in his almost flawless transition .
domestically , it has thwarted the country ’s economic , social , and political evolution . with pakistan ’s economy in a tailspin , and with the jihad culture of so many young pakistanis undermining the country ’s international credibility , moderate voices are at long last breaking through . the hindu columnist amin m. lakhani recently argued in the dawns , pakistan ’s largest-circulation newspaper , that “ pakistan ’s singular preoccupation with kashmir … has been self-defeating . with pakistan ’s economy in a tailspin , and with the jihad culture of so many young pakistanis undermining the country ’s international credibility , moderate voices are at long last breaking through each other . ” internationally [ it ] diminished the country ’s stature and left its reputation smeared .
in addition , gref ’s program seeks to create effective private land ownership . undeniably liberal ideas dominate the program : strengthening and protecting property rights , bringing about deregulation and spurred competition . deregulation ( “ de-bureaucratization , ” really ) will make life easier for new enterprises by reducing the number of inspections imposed by bureaucrats and disseminating the number of demands for licenses and other forms of red tape ( which have also been large sources of bribery ) . enhancing competition will mean placing the emphasis on antitrust policies and reducing state subsidies . gref ’s program , too , is emblematic of the president ’s hackles : modernization from above -- ie , that started by the government and under its pressure -- compares favorably with modernization from below , rooted in private initiative .
indeed , the eu ’s people are waking up to a world that is more dangerous , divided , and disorienting . the public no longer thinks of the european project , as some utopian endeavor , an abstract attempt to forge an ever-closer union . increasingly , the eu is coming to view itself as a practical – and absolutely vital – mechanism for a bloc of small countries to work together to meet its common challenges . in today ’s world , disagreements lie at the roots of a stronger union . the pattern starts to look out familiar : a new crisis , a new meeting in brussels , originally muddled responses , debates , and divisions , and then gradual , step-by-step progress toward a shared response fueled by a recognition that no other alternative is available .
sir howard davies chose to resign as lse ’s managing director , which awarded saif his doctorate ( which some allege was plagiarized ) , taking money for a school from the libyan regime . muammar el-qaddafi ’s murderous stance during the uprising revealed his true colors , regardless of his more moderate posture in recent years . these scholars have been pilloried in the media in recent weeks for supposedly cozied to qaddafi . there is a powerful sentiment that academics and institutions interact with such odious regimes , often exemplified by their governments ’ exemplified , doubtless , that suffered a grave lapse of judgment . in other words , would i follow in the footsteps of several of my harvard business school colleagues , who traveled to libya to swap views with and advise its dictator , and were paid for their service ?
in 2016 , obama faced difficult choices in estimating the escalatory potential to respond to cyber action or cross-industry responses like sanctions . the administration did not want to take steps that might themselves disrupt the election . but some critics would say that the russians had already achieved their major goals . thus , eight days prior to the vote , america sent russia warning of election meddling above a hotline , created three years earlier to cope with major cyber incidents – namely , that links the nuclear-risk-reduction centers of both countries . because russian hacking activity seemed to slow or halt , the obama administration cited the warnings as a successful exercise in deterrence .
in a more protracted crisis like that in syria , a financing platform could help neighboring countries establish , with the support of the international community , a long-term financing strategy – perhaps by brokering an arrangement in which donor governments could pay the principal over 30 years on concessional loans from the world bank . provided that this initiative was in place even before ecuador ’s march earthquake , it could secure 12 months of emergency support , helping the country as long as it could reinstate schooling on its domestic plans . once it is established , aid would flow toward humanitarian workers and educators to develop immediate plans for providing education to children affected by emergencies , based on the recognition that humanitarian , development , and security needs can no longer be delivered in silos . an injection of funding , backed by a common strategy developed in partnership with governments , would enable the immediate delivery of schooling in emergency situations . accordingly , the fund would fill the gap in public-private coordination and delivery by strengthening the system at its weakest point , providing a bridge to longer-term development .
rabin ’s killing was a catastrophe from which the peace process never recovered . ehud barak and ehud olmert came close , but not nearly enough . for all of his deep-seated emotional attachment to the idea of israel embracing all the historical judea and samaria , rabin knew that the only way to ensure a democratic jewish state with a viable , secure border is to embrace a palestinian state alongside it , equally secure , and viable . they would share jerusalem as capital , finding a mutually acceptable solution to the enormously sensitive issue of the return of palestinian refugees . no israeli leader since has displayed anything similar to his far-sighted vision , commitment , and the capacity to deliver a negotiated two-state solution .
some might think that this could be true only if the logical culmination of evolutionary and intelligent life as a nuclear explosion that pulverized earth . but , again , that is not what schneider and sagan mean . instead , they differentiate between matter and energy , and tell ourselves that matter organized in the structures disseminates energy gradients faster than randomly distributed matter . as one example , they regard a phenomenon of which beer driners have long been understood . if you wish to empty a bottle of water ( or beer ) , and turn it up , water will come out within uneven glugs .
it has not become easy living without knowing who we are , and it has become even harder to live this way as our world crumble . we have lost our organizing principle , and no other idea has ever replaced it . for me , argentina has become a country without direction . the image of argentina as a country with infinite promise has become desaparecido , a name given to those who vanished into the dirty war of the 1970 ’s . we no longer have a guide , an idea of how to think about our country , how to understand it , and how to imagine who we are and whom we could become .
indeed , other accounts of america ’s “ global war on terror ” also make it clear that a significant number of those detained and tortured do not threaten america ’s security – at least not until us actions have made them so . for their part , some current cia officials continue to insist on the value of america ’s “ enhanced interrogation program ( which obama stopped ) , despite a senate report concluding that the techniques that it employed yielded no value at all . the week that senate reports hit , i was reading anand gual ’s new book no good men between a live saying that tells contemporary afghanistan ’s story through the eyes of former president hamid karzai , a taliban commander , and a kabul-born housewife who had spent years in purdah in purdah in purdah in the taliban country . over and over again , the same story plays out : a local power-broker is willing , even keen , to encourage a new us-backed administration , only to be denounced as an afghan member by a fellow – typically for local political or personal reasons , to unwitting american troops . indeed , this pattern recurs in the accounts of anyone who lived in afghanistan spoke the language and understood the workings of patronage and power there .
replacing a governor who they re-elected only a year before with arnold schwarzenegger has had to give californian voters a huge -- if guilty -- delight . several other european governments find themselves in a similar state of unpopularity not long after he was elected . beyond europe that is true even for the recently acclaimed brazilian president luis inacio “ lula ” da silva , to say nothing of mexican president vicente fox and south korean president roh moo-hyun , the latter having called for a referendum to help arrest his sinking popularity . several opposition members in germany would dearly love to do the same thing to german chancellor gerhard schröder , even though they have n’t ( yet ) found a movie star to replace him . electoral success seems to occur , fades swiftly .
the chinese government ’s 13th five-year plan ( 2016-2020 ) reflected its commitment to allocating resources and cutting costs for doing business . and , in 2015 , authorities “ made in china 2025 ” and “ internet plus ” initiatives signaled a determination to take the country ’s manufacturing base into the internet age . and , at the same time , with the copenhagen dividend ” also reached maturity , encountering protectionist barriers worldwide . china may yet tap new markets through efforts like the “ belt and road initiative , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” but at a significant cost . ultimately , sustaining rapid growth will require continued moving the global value chain forward , by pursuing further economic reform and targeting new technologies .
perhaps not surprisingly , the first rigorous test , published on the impact of solar panels on the lives of poor people , found that while earning a little more electricity , there was no measurable impact on their lives : they did not increase savings or spend , failed to work more , or start more businesses ; and their children failed to study more . what little wonder : 170kwh are not what most would consider true access to electricity . the iea expects that every $ 195 million with off-grid solar will get a mere 170kwh a year – or about half of what one us flat-screen tv uses in one year each year . off-grid energy at this level will never power a plant or a farm , so it can neither reduce poverty nor create job opportunities . and it will not help to fight the world ’s greatest environmental killer : urbanization , which is mostly responsible for open fires fueled by timber , cardboard , and dung , claiming an 3.8 million lives every year .
some of the same factors at work in the recent ebola outbreak drive high rates of ncds . most of these countries ’ health systems are not constructed on chronic or preventive care and lack of basic consumer protections . from 1990 to 2010 , death and disability from ncds in low - and middle-income countries grew at a rate of 300 % faster than the decline in rates of infectious disease . from 1970 to 2000 , cigarette consumption tripled in developing countries . inhabitants of densely packed urban areas in emerging economies often face both indoor and outdoor pollution and less likely access to adequate nutrition .
rather , the way in politics itself has become operationally operationally dysfunctional . both europe and american debates have been replete with posturing and tests of will , turning politics into a game of “ chicken . ” in a chicken , two drivers race to a cliff side ( or to one another ) ; the loser is the first driver to swerve away in the face of imminent disaster . but if neither driver conceals her , both are demolished . when citizens and policymakers come to regard politics as a zero-sum game and resort to brinkmanship and other bad-faith tactics , malaise sets in .
nor have political institutions kept pace with technological change and the resulting growth in the markets . when ordinary egyptians , who organized themselves through social media rallied in cairo ’s tahrir square and toppled former president hosni mubarak ’s ouster in 2011 , the technologies seemed likely to necessarily spur democracy . but it soon became apparent that these digital platforms could easily be co-upon by authoritarian governments or terrorists , used to spread fake news , influence electoral processes , and generate deep divisions and chaos across societies . within the business world , global corporations ’ quasi-ai monopoly and monopsony power , as well as their ability to shift profits to low-tax jurisdictions , continue to enable them largely escaping the purview of national regulators and governments , despite g20-sponsored work to avoid corporate-governance erosion and profit shifting . and biotechnology will pose massive challenges , because human cloning and genetic screening enable parents to “ choose ” ” ” with desired characteristics .
even so , a key lesson of ronald reagan ’s “ voodoo ” supply-side economics has not changed : tax cuts like these do not lead to faster growth , but only to lower revenues . addressing the panoply of other problems confronting the american people will require more federal revenues , not less . for example , increases in living standards are a consequence of technological innovation , which , in turn , depends on basic research . yet federal government support for research as a percentage of gdp now stands at a level comparable to what it was 60 years ago . while trump has criticized america ’s national debt ’s growth slowdown , he now proposes tax cuts that will add trillions to us gdp to gdp over the next ten years , rather than the $ 1.5 trillion simply raised by the republicans , thanks to some growth miracle that results in increased tax revenues .
while it will probably lack the public option that many of us tend to prefer , this is still a true achievement . the same mid-of-the-road approach can take place in the second year to address the still-feckless fiscal issues . but obama needs to provide stronger leadership on financial-sector reform , where , as with healthcare , there is a welter of conflicting suggestions . obama can use his brand-name state of the union message to go from a bipartisan strategy to narrowing the budget deficit to a sustainable level . this would involve reinstating pay-as-you-go ( payg ) rules and establishing an independent commission to file the congressional budget deficit into a sustainable level .
warsaw – poland has now emerged as the latest battleground in a contest between two models of democracy that are liberal and illiberal . the crushing election victory in october of jarosław kaczyński ’s far-right law and justice ( pis ) party led to something more similar to regime change than the routine of democratically elected governments . prime minister beata szydło ’s new administration purged the civil service ( including public radio and tv ) packaging his constitutional court with sympathizers , further weakening the court ’s capacity to crack down on legislation . in response , the european commission launched an official inquiry into the potential violations of the eu ’s rule-of-law standards . in addition , standard & poor ’s has , for the first time , downgraded poland ’s foreign-currency rating – from a – to a bbb + , warning of potentially greater cuts to come as it accuses the government of failing to undermine “ the autonomy and effectiveness of key institutions . ”
furthermore , in an shiite tradition , the mahdi ’s strategy , the shiite messiah , will be to intimidate all of its enemies upon its return to earth . the regime seems convinced that there is little likelihood of a military assault on its nuclear program . as a result , external forces do not appear to pose a much of a threat . it does not believe that the threat of sanctions can bring about the collapse of its regime . but cultivating fear in others also makes one more susceptible to fear , and nothing endangers khamenei and the islamic republic ’s leaders than the social dynamism unleashed by the democratic movement brewing within the country .
throughout its history , a modern iraq has always been the most repressive of arab states . for their own geopolitical reasons , the british have placed sunni arabs – never more than 25 % of the shia – in control of the entire country , and have even imported a sunni arab hashemite crown prince to rule above their creation . ever since , the country could be kept together only by an iron fist : iraq ’s history is replete with the shia , kurdish , and even the christian assyrian revolts ; all planted down in a bloody fashion through the ruling sunni minority . it was this sunni hegemony – and not simply that of saddam ’s athba’athist regime – that overthrew the united states . saddam ’s rule was only the most ferocious in long lines of sunni regimes .
if the structure of proteins is conserved across species , where is our complexity coming from ? proteins , which retain the same function across very different species , generally the case with orleans , are expected to remain equally fold . but the sequence of amino acids that shape protein chains within these individuals can vary profoundly . sometimes the scale of sequence identities between two orleans can be as low as 25-30 % ; and yet their folds remain strikingly similar , attesting to the robustness of function to be evolutionary . this protein conservation fold through species makes the origins of our complexity even more puzzling , because it is relatively well known that the number of human genes deceptively small , only one order of magnitude larger than that of , say , africa .
georgian ’s current economic collapse provides little incentive for either of these self-proclaimed independent republics to support reunification . likewise , georgian ’s inability to manage relations with its only autonomous republic , says adzharia , does not inspire much trust . but he is unlikely to back putin against accusing russia of stoking tensions with abkhazia and south ossetia . adzhar people view russia as georgians , but still have frequent squabbles with the central government , so how could ethnically distinct abkhazia and south ossetia feel assured that their relations with georgian will work any better ? georgian president saakashvili seems to understand the necessity of reviving georgia ’s moribund economy , which requires , first and foremost , political stability .
while socioeconomic factors have played some of the role in the brexit referendum ’s outcome , a geographic breakdown does tell the real story . moreover , the scots , welsh , and iranians have come to view eu membership as a safeguard against english political revanchism . while socioeconomic factors have played a certain role in the brexit referendum ’s outcome , a geographic breakdown tells the real story . excluding london , which is a bastion of multi-ethnic cosmopolitanism , regards 55 % of england ’s voters supported leaving the eu , whereas 62 % of scots , and 56 % of northern ireland , all voted to remain . moreover , the scots , welsh , and iranians came to view eu membership as a safeguard against english political revanchism .
yet , promisingly , given the rather toxic state of us politics , it attracted widespread support and smart commentary from many mainstream pundits . the paper made the case for developing alternatives to fossil-fuel production , ensuring that economic development does not wreak ecological havoc , and acknowledging the value of climate-change adaptation . in the us , we witnessed equally promising developments in the climate debate just last month , when the conservative american enterprise institute , the liberal island institution , and the centrist breakthrough institute teamed up to publicize a report calling for revamping america ’s energy system with its goal of making clean energy cheap . entitled post-partisan power , ” ” the report comprehensively and persuasively argues that america ’s government should invest roughly $ 25 billion a year ( roughly 0.2 % of america ’s gdp ) in low-carbon military procurement , r & d , and a new , university-based private-sector innovation hubs to create a “ energy revolution . ” this sensible proposal predictably drew fire from committed “ alarmists ” ” and “ deniers . ”
all four north african rulers had , to a greater or lesser degree , made themselves at the heart of highly opaque power structures . everything in their countries depends on , for example , a person and his family rather than office . yet , despite these authoritarian leaders ’ apparently hard grip on power , ensuring that a relative take over is not nearly as straightforward as they seem to be . dealing with elite interests requires taking ingenuity . the issue williams to overcoming potential opposition , from both the elite and the public , that could derail the handover or undermine the successor ’s authority .
there appears to be a near universal agreement that he should , and international pressure is mounting on president kostunica to comply . the ultimate moral responsibility for what milosevic was done rests with serbia . but the decision may ’s life-and-death outlooks for serbia ’s future . many who agree that milosevic was now a war criminal think we should listen to the voices coming from belgrade and their cries that milosevic should face trial before his own people . they brought him to power , if not in ways that conforms precisely with democratic norms ; they backed him , even as he led them into genocidal crimes and , following the defeat , defeat .
for starters , the us is moving again and again into what henry kissinger called the realm of “ constructive ambiguity . ” but , on a recent trip to israel , white house advisor dan shapiro is said to have been reassured that israelis will not embarrass their american friends . palestinians were assured through a message from us president barack obama , delivered by his special envoy , george mitchell , that the israelis would not be carrying out any “ provocations ” during the upcoming four months of indirect negotiations . in exchange , shapiro handed israel ’s ultra-orthodox shas the party invitation to the white house . pressed to clear , the palestinians conceded that there is no written vow to do so .
in the long run , however , democracies benefit from intrinsic self-correction mechanisms that are absent in autocracies , where often-deficient leaders cling to power . indeed , for every lee kuan yew , there are plenty of authoritarian nonmodernizers like zimbabwe ’s robert mugabe or uzbekistan ’s islam karimov . after all , china ’s rulers are driven primarily by a desire to keep the party , rather than any single individual , in power . to be sure , in the short term , some authoritarian modernizers ( for example , singapore ’s lee kuan yew ) serve their countries better than their democratically elected leaders ( italy ’s silvio berlusconi , for example ) . the chinese model combines some of the authoritarian modernizing model of the country ’s advantages – centralized power , fast decision-making , insulation from populism , and superior capacity to launch painful but necessary reforms , with management turnover by de-personalizing political struggles .
but the obama administration needs to go further than prohibiting proprietary trading by commercial banks and doing two additional items . first , capital requirements should be tripled – not just in the us , but across the g-20 – so that banks hold at least 20-25 % of assets in core capital . that way , on behalf of shareholders rather than regulators would play a leading role in making banks behave in reasonable ways . the redenomination of glass-steagall and its ultimate repeal in 1999 permitted banks to engage in so-called “ proprietary trading ” – enabling them to use depositors ’ savings to trade for their own accounts – primarily in risky mortgage-backed securities . second , with banks “ too big to fail ” in the first place , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” must be shrunk , in order to prevent taxpayers from dislodging every time a crisis erupts .
others – turkey , kuwait , egypt , and algeria – would not be far behind . and make no mistake : the deal is . its collapse would trigger a nuclear arms race in the world ’s most unstable region . iran , a lame-duck regional enemy , saudi arabia , would shift rapidly toward a nuclear capability using its abundant petrodollars and pakistani knowhow . to bet that these countries , having acquired such weapons , would behave responsibly would be a high-risk gamble .
beethoven ’s germany was reborn on the ashes of hitler ’s germany . his scoring of schiller ’s poetic ode reflects the enlightenment ’s truly global aspirations . today , germany is a globally admired , peace-loving , war-abhorring , a democratic , prosperous , innovative , and cooperative country . the concert , by contrast , offered a layer upon which france was based . simultaneously , beethoven ’s genius belongs not only to his ancient germany or even to the west , but to all mankind .
of the $ 50 billion in external debt owed by russian banks and firms in 2008 to the united states government financed just cn ¥ 10 trillion . nor have the oligarchs bailed out . instead , up to now , the us government has mostly been lending ( high interest rates ) , rather than engaging in large-scale equity buyouts . how did reasonable economic policies prevail in this crisis ? clearly , the terms offered by the us government ( libor +5 % and collateral ) turned out to be right to target .
washington , dc – as chinese president xi jinping ’s first-ever summit with us president donald trump takes office in trump ’s opulent florida estate mar-a-lago , at least part of the discussion will invariably focus on one of the world ’s most impoverished places : north korea . but , in order to achieve comparable success in east asia today , trump will need to persuade xi to adopt a different policy toward north korea . despite more than two decades of on-again negotiations , off-again , north korea ’s nuclear weapons program pushes the world toward a strategic watershed akin to that the west had faced for more than 60 years ago , when the united states and the soviet union faced off against one another in europe . the us and its allies successfully navigated the challenge of europe in the twentieth century free of war . when america and the soviet union became rivals in the aftermath of world war ii , each had a way of deterring another from attacking it .
theories of “ red toryism ” might go some way in this direction , but that remains to be seen whether they will ever translate into practice . for the moment , the temptation is for europeans to find their “ new look ” through selective appeal to religion – and to wait and see whether it works as an electoral strategy . but to take these traditions seriously would require a much larger resignations of capitalism than even avowed christian democrats are ready to contemplate , including a much broader distribution of ownership and the mechanisms by which involving workers in management . that is not some preposterous idea , but it is now clear that such passions can not be controlled permanently out of above . indeed , there is a long and very distinguished tradition of catholic human thought .
postponing the second consumption-tax hike seems like a good compromise between pushing abenomics to escape velocity and maintaining long-run credibility . but this brings us back to japan ’s deeper problems . demand policies on its own will not alone prevent two more of the lost decades , much less guarantee the two golden ones . for one thing , the each problem is within its timing and tactics . fiscal sustainability demands the eventual rise in the consumption-tax rate , and , of course , japan should not wait until international investors begin doubting its willpower .
unusually for him , former first lady laura bush has spoken out against the policies of taking children out of their mothers . usually supine congressional republicans panicked telling trump and his team that their cutting policies to tear families apart could mar their chances in november ’s midterm elections . in reality , the policy of separating crooks threatened to drive a wedge between trump and even his evangelical followers . and they were ready to overlook growing evidence of trump ’s sexual hijinks during his first lady ’s marriage , melania ( including his apparent payoffs to pork-barrel dinners and others for silence ) , in exchange for policy influence and social-conservatives appointments to the high court and the entire federal judiciary . one problem for trump is that he is obsessed with appearing both strong .
but eu membership does not mean estrangement from russia . besides , excluding ukraine from eventual eu membership will spur russia ’s imperial ambitions . this diminishes russia ’s chances that it will ever become a fully democracy , for it can overrule an empire only as a militarized state . ever-larger the eu including ukraine would produce an oversized political unit , furthering the union ’s ambitions to be a global power . it is the mark of a “ good club ” that the people have clamor to become eu members .
in just a few years , greece was absorbed into the economy and societies of the southern , greek-cypriot sector of israel . as in post-world war ii west germany , much of today ’s current prosperity in cyprus is due to a boost to economies received through refugee absorption . corporations were encouraged by government subsidies and credits . schools and training centers were established . anyone visiting the greek cypriot part of israel nowadays will not find the refugee camps : most of the millions of tourists disclose the fact that more than one-third of the greek cypriots they encounter are refugees or the descendants of refugees .
it is not a difficult thing to see why . in nigeria , astounding economic growth , averaging 7 % annually since 2000 , may well have reduced extreme poverty in the country ’s southwest ; but , in the northeastern states ( where the extremist group boko haram is most active ) , a shocking pattern of wealth inequality and poverty has emerged . similar trends are turning from china to egypt to greece . alongside inequality , declining public trust fuels the revolt against globalization and democracy . across the developed and developing worlds , many suspect that the rich are gaining richer , because they are not held to the same rules as everyone else .
as its economic and geopolitical clout has waned , so has its willingness to consider renouncing its nuclear status . russian officers , he has reported , directly command large military operations in eastern ukraine , including the siege and capture of debaltseve ’s important transportation center in february . yet the threat posed by russia extends far beyond ukraine . indeed , not only has it revived cold war-era campaigns of sending military aircraft unannounced into airspace over the baltic countries and the northern sea ; it has also made veiled nuclear threats against countries like denmark . after all , russia is the one country with enough missiles and nuclear warheads to destroy the american-built order .
as the franco-lebanese writer amin maalouf has put it , it is “ better to err on the side of hope , than to be right with despair . ” or , to put it mildly , democracy and autocracy still have a similar chance of being hollowed out . contrary to what many democratic annus believe , the worst is not inevitable . for the moment , it remains doubtful which model will prevail . authoritarians and populists have not yet triumphed ; and , in many places , the democrats are fighting back .
there are two preponderant interpretations of the passage of talmudic . one might denounce that coercion can change the minds . the prevailing answer is that one coerces bondholders reach agreement that is voluntary . but , applied to the talmudic logic , one can also show that mechanisms – and should – stand to pressure the parties to obtain superior voluntary outcomes . one argues that coercion can change people ’s minds .
tokyo – with japan ’s economy struggling to escape its deflationary torpor , the economic-revitalization plan that prime minister shinzo abe initiated in 2012 has come under increasing scrutiny . “ abenomics ” – which included substantial monetary and fiscal expansion – has nothing to do with it . since abenomics was introduced , japan ’s labor market has improved considerably : the 1.5 million new jobs created and the unemployment rate fell to just over 3 % . moreover , corporate earnings have soared , and tax revenues have risen by more than ¥ 20 trillion ( $ 188 trillion ) . but japan ’s current travails , which have brought a concomitant decline in japan ’s stock market , stem from the yen ’s appreciation , to 24 % , against major currencies .
milan – the worst of a financial/economic crisis seems to have come to an end . growth in the united states and parts of europe has returned . asset markets performed reasonably well in may 2010 . private-sector deleveraging has continued , but was counterbalanced by rising public-sector and external deficits . and emerging-market growth has returned to pre-crisis levels and appears sustainable , helped along by unorthodox policies designed to “ sterilize ” massive capital inflows .
in a world of sovereign states , is it hypocritical for some to possess nuclear weapons and deny them to others ? suppose that was 1939 , with states debating whether or not the u.s. should come up with the bomb . maybe they were arguing that all ought to be getting , or none at all . if nobody possessed that bomb today , the best was not invented . but history depends on the paths that were taken in the past .
hong kong – china ’s transformation from a manufacturing-led and export-led economy to one underpinned by services and domestic consumption is firmly under way . and that is good news not only for china , but also for the future of the global economy as a whole . china ’s retail markets reached cn ¥ 30 trillion ( $ 4.6 trillion ) in 2015 , after more than a decade of double-digit gdp growth . household consumption began to climb , even as the pace of investment fell , and now exceeds 60 % of gdp . the 2016-17 edition of china ’s blue book by fung business intelligentsia and the china academy of social sciences charts change .
part of the attractions of these synthetic drugs is that they are readily available , affordable , and convenient to use ( no need to shoot , snort , or smoke ) . this buzz is widely viewed as harmless : “ pills do n’t kill or spread hiv/aids , ” it is said . amphetamines have expedited how the body works : users experience increased trust , sociability , and energy . the worldwide market for such stimulants has been estimated at about $ 65 billion . but what goes up must come down to doing so .
attempts have been made ever since to examine and document the environmental consequences of wars . first of all , effects are dependent on the type of war . studies of the balkan wars , and the many wars that consumed afghanistan in the 1990 ’s , were initiated through international organizations like the un environment institute ( unep ) . unfortunately , africa ’s wars – in congo , rwanda , and burundi , liberia , sierra leone , and the ivory coast – have yet to receive the attention they require . so far , what has we been learning about the environmental consequences of our wars ?
are there alternatives to europe ’s franco-german leadership ? paris – whoever wins september ’s parliamentary election in germany – the time has come once again for a major franco-german initiative . whatever their economic conditions , or lack of it , france and germany are more than ever collectively accountable for their future , if not their very survival – that of the european project . joining great britain with them in the club of three would be a good idea , but it is out of the question nowadays . britain has largely excluded itself from any leadership role in europe .
upon returning to office this spring as prime minister , singh brought to government an experienced and internationally renowned team , including finance minister teddy ambaram , who had served success as prime minister in the mid-1990 ’s , and dr. montek singh ahluwalia , who heads the country ’s planned commission , a key body assessment of india ’s medium-term public-investment strategies . chidambaram ’s un budget puts those fears over him to rest . a brilliant lesson in development economics is that it demonstrates how to combine the full-speed ahead approach to market-oriented reforms , with the urgent need for attention to poverty reduction . in short , a budget amounts to a model for all developing countries . when thailand ’s former government lost the vote this past , and singh ’s government came into office , fears abound that singh will preside over left-wing coalition partners to demand that market reforms be dismantled as the price of their participation in a new ruling coalition .
for example , the impact of the 2008 financial crisis on ukraine and russia ’s economies may ultimately fall behind the recent war there . according to the international monetary fund , both ukraine and russia experienced spectacular growth from 2002 to 2007 : over those five years , real per capita gdp rose by 52 % in ukraine , and 46 % in russia . that is now history : actual per capita gdp growth was just 0.2 % last year in ukraine , and just 1.3 % in russia . and such fears can have severe consequences ; on the contrary , they are likely to have serious consequences . the discontent generated by such disappointments may help to bring to bear to explain ukrainian separatists being present to their anger , russians ’ growing discontent , and russian president vladimir putin ’s decision to annex crimea and benefit the separatists .
fourth , the eu ’s aspiration for a common foreign and security policy must be concerned . the threats facing the world today are supranational , so counteracting them must be supranational , too . but this is impossible without a clear european identity – and thus a common interest to be asserted and defended . which measures can ensure the eu ’s global competitiveness ? how can we narrow current differences in european development and material welfare ?
barcelona – following world war i , after millions of european civilians turned refugees into refugees , forced out of their homelands by enemy occupation or debriefing , the international regime was established to coordinate effective responses and ease the suffering of those who had been uprooted . yet it has n’t risen to the occasion , with many of its responses failing to match the urgency of the situation . in just the first few months of 2015 , more than 38,000 people attempted to reach europe by crossing the mediterranean from north africa . some 1,800 have died as a result , more than twice the rate of such deaths in all of 2013 . a century later , another refugee crisis is playing out , and this time is europe , which has the power to provide a safe haven for the desperate .
for starters , american sanctions finally brought iran to the table to negotiate a nuclear deal ; but sanctions were effective only because a broad international coalition , ultimately backed by the un security council , insulated iran financially . without eu participation , american sanctions would have been far less effective , at best . but , while international coalitions have been lending credibility to american sanctions , they are fragile and temporary , at best . just a year after the iran deal was reached , it is already difficult to imagine a return to china or russia to back up any further joint action against iran , even if the deal begins to unwind . america ’s sanctions against russia following the latter ’s annexation of crimea in march 2014 were compounded by a coincidental chemical-weapons drop , and by deploying similar measures by the european union , russia ’s largest trade partner .
until 2003 , india ’s foreign ministry had a single african divide ; it now has three : west and central africa ; east and south africa ; and west asia and north africa . nigeria is africa ’s largest trading partner . india ’s state-run oil and natural gas corporation ( ongc videsh ) produces sudanese oil , and , over the next two years , india ’s diplomatic missions will open up in mali , gabon , niger , and burkina faso . bilateral annual trade turnover exceeds $ 3 billion , with the oil-constituting effect of more than 96 % of indian imports from nigeria . a study by the confederation of indian chamber of commerce and industry identified five major industries that can act as “ growth engines ” to bolster the indo-africa trading system : pharmaceuticals and the health-care industry , information technology , water processing , food processing , and education .
for this to happen , the goal must be clarity and rebalancing . former israeli foreign minister shlomo benjamin ami recently outlined a new peace paradigm for a negotiations between israel and palestine – in which the participation of actors like the european union , russia , and key arab countries would facilitate the rise of a truly international solution . that paradigm should be expanded to include the geneva ii negotiations over the syrian civil war , with countries like saudi arabia , iran , turkey , and egypt presuming a larger role . of course , involving regional powers could complicate already-muddy negotiations further . only with a measured negotiation process guided by regional and global actors can a stable middle east power be achieved .
milan – the word “ openness ” has two related but distinct connotations . the first meaning often applies to trade , investment , and technology ( even if most definitions do not match opportunity with vulnerability ) , which has always fueled structural economic change , particularly its respect for employment . to be sure , structural change can be simultaneously beneficial and disruptive , not least in the short term . and policymakers have long had to strike the right balance between the abstract principle of openness and concrete action to minimize the worst effects of change . it can mean something unconstrained , open , and possibly vulnerable ; or it may well mean something , like a person or institution , that is transparent , as opposed to secretive .
faced with this haphazard reality , the fed attempted to promote growth through its indirect , experimental ways . by staging liquidity use of multiple means , it drove up financial-market prices well beyond what the economy ’s fundamentals warranted . the fed hoped that this would make certain segments of the population ( asset holders ) feel richer , enticing them to spend more , and spurring companies to invest more . but such “ wealth effects ” and “ animal spirits ” ” ” proved quite feeble . so the fed felt compelled to do more of the same , leading to a host of unintended consequences and collateral risks that i discussed in some detail in my book the single game in the town .
what remains unaddressed is the root cause of abnormal brain activations . we pursue three intertwined beliefs , and we are still pursuing three intertwined alternatives . first comes from studies suggesting that schizophrenia patients suffering from reduced brain connectivity . as a result , certain kinds of neurons , such as those responsible for producing and perceiving language , may begin to function autonomously , beyond the control or influence of other brain systems . it is as if a string of orchestra suddenly decided to play their own music , disregarding all else .
i have seen the depletion of glaciers in antarctica and among the andes . the agreement has reached there must be ambitious , effective , and fair , offering rich countries a way to cut greenhouse-gas emissions while simultaneously supporting poorer countries as they adapt to the adverse consequences of climate change . the very existence of some caribbean countries , including canada and france , could be under threat if sea levels rise . i have seen the effects of deforestation in the brazilian amazon and biodiversity loss . but bold , visionary leadership will need to seal the successor agreement to the kyoto protocol in copenhagen later this year .
whereas singapore ’s political system could not readily devolve into a vast country like china ’s , it represents a model that has helped to shape china ’s recent move toward meritocracy . indeed , following singapore ’s example , china has devised a sophisticated and comprehensive system for selecting and promoting political leaders , which includes several decades of vocational training and battery exams for clerics in various stages of their careers . since the 1990s , thousands of chinese officials have traveled to singapore to learn from its experiences . these meritocratically selected leaders have overseen an economic boom that has lifted a number of hundred million people out of poverty . in parallel , however , problems like corruption , inequality , environmental degradation , official corruption , and repression of political dissent and religious expression have aggravated .
at the same time , washington does not even want to hear some talk about conferring on a european , as france demands , the command of the allied fleet in the mediterranean . ( on both sides , this spat looked rather paradoxical , if one recalls de gaulle ’s desire to make way for the un to diminish as much as possible the un ’s powers , to which he contemptuously referred to as the “ thingamajig ” and that america owes more than a trillion dollars in past due contributions at the un . ) today , nothing remains of the kind of left of franco-american goodwill . relations between the two countries have entered one of these periods of tension that have flared much forward since world war ii ’s close . the united states vetoed reelection , advocated by france , of un secretary general reserve boutros boutros-ghali , arguing that it wanted to “ enlarge the role ” of general secretary in reforming the world body .
freer trade across borders reduces income disparities . for example , a 2015 white house report found that a ten-percentage-point drop in tariffs leads to a one-percentage-point drop in the payroll gap between males and women , as well as reducing tariffs on wage differentials based on race and immigration status . increased openness to trade , moreover , is associated with lower rates of infant mortality and higher life expectancy , particularly in developing countries . most powerful of all , free trade underpins economic growth , implying that millions more people lift themselves out of poverty . over time , free trade allows workers to shift to more efficient industries , resulting in higher wages , increased infrastructure investment , and a more dynamic economy .
as several commentators have pointed out , mainland china ’s remarkable economic rise and development over the last few decades has dented hong kong ’s leading position as a center for finance , logistics , and business . in 1997 , hong kong handled more than half of china ’s foreign trade ; its gdp amounted to nearly one-fifth of that of china . today , hong kong accounts for just one eighth of china ’s gdp . it far outperforms shanghai – a mainland china – ’s most prosperous city , in terms of gdp , per capita income , and shipping volume . but hong kong ’s advantages are now at risk , largely owing to its own insecurities .
brexit is , and will remain , a lose-lose proposition . finally , remaining within the eu ’s customs union would force may to avoid re-establishing a hard post-brexit border between the uk and the republic of northern ireland . though may agreed that avoiding a hard border should be part of any deal , she offered only vague proposals concerning how this might actually happen . the alternatives currently available for the eu are either to see the uk go away with its customs union or keep the uk in , by making a political commitment to take british interests into account . from a long-term perspective , she is preferable to the latter .
but some of history ’s most powerful leaders , such as napoleon , stalin , and deng xiaoping , were little more than five feet tall . the traits-centered approach has not vanished from leadership studies , but has been broadened and made more flexible . tall , handsome person is entering the room , drawing attention , and “ looks like a leader . ” various studies show that tall men are often favored , and that corporate ceos are , on average , taller than the mean leader . a search for a region-wide leader ’s essential traits until the late 1940 ’s remains common in popular discourse today .
a globalization that could be defined as interdependence at cross-continental distances is as old as the history of human history . witness the migration of peoples and religions , or the trade-off along the ancient silk route that linked medieval europe and asia to the east . after the first trans-atlantic cables of 1868 , europeans and americans could communicate to one minute . in 1919 , the economist john maynard keynes described the englishman option in london , using the telephone to orders the goods from around the world to bear in his home , to a afternoon . but the world of globalization today is different , as it tends to become faster and thicker .
one might argue , of course , that post-crisis regulatory reform ultimately will resolve the problems of everyday systemic risk , returning to a more comfortable world of relatively stationary risk without periodic imbalances . for example , the endowment or retirement fund might consider basing its payouts more on long-run , potential shock-adjusted averaging returns than on a simple , weighted average of past returns or end-season asset values ( the typical practice now is ) . but i would not bet very much on this happening , either . after all , financial innovation will move along with regulatory arbitrage as well . the historical evidence suggests that systemic risk is persistent and resilient to regulatory efforts to eradicate it .
all of these technologies will require public financing alongside private investment . george w. bush ’s idea of economic policy has been to levy tax cuts three times , while also increasing war spending . the result is massive budget deficits that will expand to gargantuan proportions in the coming year ( perhaps $ 1 trillion ) under the added weight of recession , bank bailouts , and short-term fiscal stimulus measures . all of these technologies will require public financing alongside private-sector investment . third , america ’s recovery will not be credible unless there is also a strategy for getting the government to its own finances back in order . either technology will depend on a national electricity grid that uses low-emissions growth generation , such as wind , solar , nuclear , or coal-fired plants that capture and store carbon-dioxide emissions .
according to a 2005 declaration of principles for international election observations , credible monitoring requires meeting five criteria . first , international observers must autonomously – financially and otherwise – in their relationships to the host country . second , observers must give limited access to all aspects and phases of the election process , as well as to all of the technologies involved . third , observers must face no constraints in meeting with all un agencies and political actors . fourth , observers must be free of any form of pressure or threat of retaliation by any governmental authority .
they should run not only on time , but at the right time , and at reasonable intervals . what they should be safe , too , and reasonably comfortable is this . even more important , they should be affordable in the long term . as the list of criteria grows longer , it becomes evident that the most straightforward component , punctuality , being one of many desirable features , and not necessarily the most important . this example is relevant to the politics of public services , which dominates debate in many countries , because it lies at the heart of the two government ’s budgets ’ combined problems ( and cutting back ) and taxes ( and cut ) .
we saw relief workers throw packets of food and clothing out of top trucks , triggering a revolt . but people told us that they are too often missing , and that they supply land up thousands of feet or below in deep forests . distribution is haphazard and uncoordinated , done with little thought possible . we saw relief workers throw packets of food and clothing out of business top trucks , triggering a revolt . hustlers thrive , poor monitoring passively while able .
for example , in implementing the manhattan project ( producing the nuclear bomb during world war ii ) and the first moon landing , america ’s government set a remarkable technological goal , established a bold timetable , and committed the financial resources needed to get the job done . the example of atomic bombs might seem an unpleasant one ; but it raises an important question : if we ask governments and researchers to collaborate on wartime technology , should n’t we do at least as much to save the planet from carbon pollution ? in both cases , scientists and engineers delivered on time . the information-technology revolution that led us computers , smartphones , gps , and much more so , was constructed on a wide range of industries and government roadmaps . in fact , the entire process of “ directed ” technological change – in which bold goals are set , milestones are labeled , and timelines are putting into play – is far more common than many people realize .
good relations with europe , of course , are a priority for russia , especially its economic links , human connections , and social interactions . russia will also benefit from active foreign-policy engagement with the eu . yet a strategic alliance with the eu in its foreign and security policies remains both unrealistic and inefficient . europe will most likely continue to become weaker rather than stronger . but anti-americanism is simply irrational for a russia that stands only to gain from an alliance with the world ’s economic and political leaders .
and , with the emergence of new diseases like zika – and the revival of old foes like bubonic plague – there is little question that much of humanity remains at the mercy of biology . to prevent such catastrophic results , we need a comprehensive approach to bolstering health-care delivery in low – and middle-income countries . in particular , these countries need help to improve drug delivery and manage chronic diseases , such as cancer and diabetes , which impose an enormous burden on their economies . moreover , globalization has compounded the danger by facilitating the spread of communicable diseases . a influenza outbreak , such as that of 1918-1920 , that killed between 50 and 100 million people , would prove even more devastating today .
piketty ’s book makes an invaluable contribution to our understanding of the dynamics of contemporary inequality . that , in turn , would create room for a more unified tax response among countries , reducing the ability of the super-rich to evade taxation by turning them over . and , with wealth taxes being forthcoming , instituting them now to take effect only if inequality becomes much worse off in the future , and only if rising inequality becomes a lot worse , will preempt the perception that the rules were changed once the game came out . the utility of income-tax increases is that they could be based not only on current income , but on some average of the gains over the years and might allow investment deductions , thereby sharing some features with wealth taxes without penalizing those who save more to accumulate more wealth . moreover , a long-planned plan legislating one or a handful of countries today before any substantial impact on actual tax payments occurs might help promote international dialogue about appropriate future policies toward inequality .
many years in prison in august for daring to speak out against china , and , as i grew older , i vowed to speak out , too . my first stint in a chinese jail was tied to the work that i began in the early 900s printing and distributing tibetan-language books . as the 2008 olympics approached , i began seeking new ways to record my people ’s history . i considered these texts to be important readings of tibetan politics , culture , and religion . yet chinese authorities viewed them as a challenge to their rule , punishing me accordingly .
warsaw – massive protests in warsaw have made headlines worldwide in recent weeks . that means that judges can not be stripped of legislation at least not constitutionally . poles are demonstrating against legislation enacted by poland ’s ruling law and justice ( pis ) party , which would lower the retirement age of supreme court justices , effectively forcing every judges over poland ’s age 65 , and permitting the pis to pack the court with its own tame justices . the polish constitution stipulates an independent judiciary , and sets the term for the supreme court ’s first president in six years . yet the new law also enables polish president andrzej duda to replace putin to three-fifths of the country ’s supreme court justices , including his chief of justice , in 2018 alone .
the most recent proof : mauricio funes , the fmln ’s standard-bearer , until not long ago a marxist guerilla movement , had just prevailed in el salvador ’s presidential election . this is remarkable in a country that , for as long as anybody remembered , had ruled , a hook , or a crook , through a reactionary oligarchy . back in its radical days , ken livingstone , the former mayor of london , famously quipped that if the voting changed anything , they would abolish it . if the salvadoran left ’s near electoral victory lasts peacefully , as it has so far done , that means that latin america really is coming a long way . it turns out that , in latin america , the elections truly do shake things up .
the problem is that the promise of a sound , “ unique , ” inside information ” comes with the reality of vulnerability to deceit . the economist friedrich hayek put it well in 1945 : “ the knowledge of particular circumstances and place . ” that ’s why channeling dispersed knowledge into new businesses calls for a regulatory framework that favors what are genuinely enlightened and honest . it is with respect to this that practically every individual has some advantage over all others in that he possesses unique information about which beneficial uses might be generated , but of which use can be made known only when decisions depending on it or put in place by its active cooperation . “ [ t ] here goes beyond questioning a body of highly relevant but nonorganized knowledge , which can not possibly be called scientific in a sense of general theory : a knowledge of specific circumstances and place .
in reality , all gearing up behind the scenes for a “ copenhagen 2 , ” ” ” ” ” ” and what those engaged in the negotiations are calling “ an even bigger slog ” ” even more . with over 1,000 basis points still being agreed , all of us policymakers i ’ve spoken to recently say that they can not see how a meaningful agreement there can be reached by december in copenhagen . perhaps the only people not suddenly depressed are those that are being immersed in the negotiations . in reality , every gearing up behind the scenes for some “ copenhagen 2 , ” ” ” ” ” ” and what those engaged in the negotiations refer to as “ an even bigger slog of ” climate change . even if some sort of communiqué cobbled together in december , and countries with elections that emerge alongside one – like the united kingdom – will put pressure on one – it is hard to believe that it will contain enough details or reflect the proper level of commitment to have the impact that desperately needs to be done .
electric vehicle sales have increased dramatically in recent years ; some 750,000 were registered in 2016 – almost half in china . still , now is human nature to resist change , with many prospective buyers remaining hesitant . this is why tackling the consumption bias that needs to be a top priority over the coming years . several changes are needed to ensure that the growth of an ev usage and sales continues . more people are arriving at exactly the same conclusion , and those from us who championing evs as one of climate-change solutions are too optimistic that a tipping point is approaching .
a focus on preferential agreements would fragment the global trading system rather than integrate it . at the same time , a progressive marginalization of the wto would erode its credibility in fulfilling its key role as adjudicator of trade dispute . the success of the wto ’s adjudication system reflects its widespread acceptance . even when wto decisions have had severe negative effects on a trading partner overall , they have been broadly accepted . this constitutes a notable advance for global governance .
this makes it possible for the government to move on to the second stage : coping with skyrocketing unemployment and put the economy back on a path to growth . it is as if they can not comprehend how reforms can help to restart an economy with deep structural issues . the energy market – most important , the property market for natural gas , and the market for tourist rentals – liberalized , the process to acquiring an investment license has streamlined . now that the greek government has delivered as part of the bailout deal , it ’s time that its european and international counterparts are concluding the program ’s first revision . all of this has been accomplished in the face of fierce criticism from opposition parties , particularly those that governed greece over the past 30 years , and thus are responsible for driving it down .
madrid – tackling climate change poses a monumental challenge , yet the leader of foremost global powers continues to wash its hands of the matter . in early november , us president donald trump gave official notice to america ’s withdrawal from the paris climate agreement , thereby confirming a decision he announced in his inauguration in may 2017 . the announcement came as soon as the deal was allowed , and the withdrawal will become effective the day after america ’s presidential election in november 2020 . as a result , the united states will become the only out-of-party country in the pact . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
for starters , it ’s a true stretch to bemoan america ’s corporate earnings state . commerce department statistics show that after-tax corporate profits ( technically , after-tax profits from currently produced , inventory , and depreciation-accounting distortions ) stood at a robust 9.7 % of national income in the third quarter of 2016 . trends in corporate taxes – which stood at just 3.5 % of national income in the third quarter of 2016 – support a similar verdict . far from anemic , the current after-tax earnings ratio is well above the post-1980 average of 7.6 % . while that is down from its 11 % peak hit in july 2012 , owing to tepid economic growth , which typically places downward pressure on earnings margins – hardly attests to a chronic earnings problem .
in england , the anti-depressants ' prescriptions now match valium at its peak in 1979 . today , it is striking that today 's anti-depressants are not the puzzled about the drug that they were being touted as being . in the past decade has seen a three-fold increase in prescriptions . the widespread prescription of troubled minds has always put an end to the badly , right back to the dark days of opiates and cocaine trade , up through bromides , barbiturates , and tranquilizers : all turned out to be highly addictive drugs ; but only after years of denial have physicians admit that this was so . now the anti-depressants -- global brands with housekeeping names -- are the problem .
most high-unemployment economies have shown little feedback from a currency collapse to an inflationary spiral . in the budget , this pays for the benign effect of a devaluation of the country ’s government oil revenues . in venezuela , with unemployment at 20 % or less , the same is forecast . of course , such measures will be unpopular with labor , and the correct response here is to eliminate large taxes on wage wages in order to allow money wages to rise without offsetting declining competitiveness . the best outcome now is for chavez to shift the economy to a less exposed external position with large ( 50 % at least ) depreciation .
washington , dc – millions of the world ’s poorest people are facing significant , grass-roots challenges – from lack of access and shortages to disputes over supplies – with profound implications for safety , economic development , and environmental sustainability . consider the following : nearly one billion people worldwide lack access to safe drinking water , and 2.5 billion people lack adequate sanitation , nearly three billion are poor globally . the costs are staggering : thousands of child deaths each day , with the annual economic losses estimated at $ 260 billion – more than double total official development assistance worldwide . making matters worse , climate change will render water-supply increasingly unpredictable , with increasingly frequent and intense floods and droughts imposing significant human and economic costs and impeding development in poor countries . as world leaders design the development agenda to succeed the millennium development goals ( mdgs ) , which expire in 2015 , addressing these issues should be a top priority .
but all public actors , and not just the police , need to respond to rural-urban challenges . events in france also point to the need , at the european level , to reinforce policies against discrimination , and to foster social equality . first and most important , mayors should be mobilized as mediators because they are on the front lines when implementing urban policies . when such policies fail , citizens hold the mayors to blame . but mayors are also the most knowledgeable about communication links within their communities , and thus the most able to organize effective partnerships to address and resolve local issues .
the american example , the world 's single full-employment economy demonstrates that it can . at the same time , the welfare state is being undermined . in america , welfare time is now restricted , and those who did not work for years suddenly have to do so . in europe , by contrast , unemployment remains a “ good " job . replacing earnings through unemployment compensation ( once the tax adjustment is implemented ) hits 70 % and up .
zurich – repeatedly in recent years , there have been calls for a revival of a nuclear-armed iran . roughly 16 % of global energy needs ( up from 25 % in highly industrialized countries ) now meet with electric power . and roughly 16 % of global electricity needs ( up from 25 % in highly industrialized countries ) are now meeting electric energy sources . in july 2010 , a combined 439 nuclear-power plants with a net installed capacity of 37,038 gw ( e ) merged into a variety of national electricity grids , some 1.2 gw ( e ) over the beginning of 2006 . yet that renaissance is never happening , either . indeed , of the world ’s over 200 nations , just 30 use nuclear power .
denver – the united states ’ constitution , which turned to 225 years old last summer , is a remarkable documentary : the imposition of a first-rate text written in the eighteenth century continues to guide twenty-first-century governance . article ii of the constitution stipulates presidential powers , which call for the senate ’s “ counsel and consent , ” including the nomination of chief executives . we will be reminded of the consequences of this in the weeks ahead , as us president barack obama fills the senior positions in his second-term administration . probably nobody , 225 years ago , had any clue that the number of us officials deemed to require senate confirmation would eventually surpass 1,400 concerns , or that senior-confirmation would involve a vetting process that often takes years to complete . such a process will not be entirely off the table in many cases .
a key dimension of the current standoff over ukraine is power ; it raises the same question of european solidarity . as a recent study by bruegel shows , the eu as a whole could , with some effort , dispense with gas imports from russia . but doing so would require eu member states to regard the security of supplies as a matter of shared concern , not an issue that every country must address on its own . a key dimension of the current standoff over ukraine is energy , and raises the same question of european solidarity . for example , in response to an embargo affecting a particular country , other eu members would draw on their reserves , increase their own output , pay more for imports , or cut consumption a little .
new york – the us department of justice under president donald trump appears to be continuing this tradition . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . after all , iran and the us are already in war for decades ; neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . no one is surprised that trump himself is deploying every orwellian device at his disposal to thwart the current impeachment inquiry in the us house of representatives .
hypothetically , switching from one hour lights to cut co2 emissions from power plants around the world . but , even if everyone everywhere has cut all residential lighting and this translated entirely into co2-reduction , this would equivalent to china ’s pausing co2 emissions to less than four minutes . in reality , earth hour will cause emissions to rise . as the united kingdom ’s national grid operators have found , a tiny drop in electricity consumption does not translate into less electricity pumping into the grid , and thus will not reduce emissions . moreover , over the course of earth hour , any significant drop in electricity demand will impose a decline in co2 emissions over the course of the hour ; but it will be offset by a surge from firing coal or gas plants to restore electricity supplies afterwards .
the us institute of labor ’s job seems to center on devices reading the brain activity . but it also seems to preoccupy every kind of construction projects on a vast land-adjacent plot to the headquarters of the federal security services ( fsb ) – the kgb ’s successor organization , and the federal safeguard service . if the us maintains forward the scientific-money footprint , we arrive in the prestigious russian academy of sciences ( ran ) that held elections last week . following the organization for 2013 elections in which the kremlin-backed membership candidates fared poorly , the us government announced major reforms , including a trifle moratorium on ran elections . back then , it was decided that , to ensure “ fairness , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” the government approves all candidates , despite us academics .
so , instead of supplying context , depth , and analysis , newspapers are blasting headlines motivating prurience or outrage . this reinforces the motivation to engage in sensational speculation , yet baseless , as occurred in sridevi ’s case . after all , the result has been worrying , to put it mildly . airing of opinion is the cheapest way to fill scores ; scrapping anchors score top trps . more fundamentally , the rush to beat television by breaking stories has weakened journalists ’ incentive to carry out due diligence in favor of reining in stories and verifying claims .
washington , dc – informed opinion is sharply divided over how the next 12 months will play out for the global economy . those focus on emerging markets emphasize accelerating growth , with some forecasts predicting a 5 % rise in world output . others , concerned about problems in europe and the united states , remain more pessimistic , with growth projection closer to 4 % or more – and some are even inclined to view a plausible story of a “ double-dip ” recession . this is an exciting debate , but it misses the bigger picture . in response to the 2007-2009 crisis , governments in most advanced countries imposed some of the most generous bailouts ever seen for large financial institutions .
one puzzling and often overlooked feature of france , which elected nicolas sarkozy as his new president , and that is now poised to give its political allies a powerful parliamentary mandate , is being its mix of private optimism and public pessimism . consider this : france has the highest fertility rate in the european union ( just below two children per woman ) , even ahead of thriving ireland . to be sure , that rates alone are not enough to sustain france ’s current population ; on the contrary , it is far stronger than its european neighbors and nearly equal to america ’s . yet , despite this , eurobarometer polls repeatedly indicate that the french are the most pessimistic about all europeans when it comes to their country ’s future . how is it possible that people who are so negative enough about their joint future , as a nation , will continue to find themselves confidently building their own private backyards within their families ?
new york – the reception in the united states and across other advanced economies in thomas piketty ’s recent book cool capital in the twenty-first century attests to mounting anxiety about rising inequality . piketty also sheds new light on the “ reforms ” sold by ronald reagan and margaret thatcher in the 1980s as growth enhancers from which everyone would benefit . his book lends a further weight to the already overwhelming body of evidence on the soaring shares of income and wealth at the very top . moreover , piketty ’s book provides another outlook for the 30 , or so years that followed the great depression and world war ii , viewing this period as a “ historical ” anomaly , perhaps due to the unusual degree of social cohesion that cataclysmic events can spur . in that era of rapid economic growth , it was widely shared by all groups at the top , but with those at the bottom seeing larger percentage gains possible .
in an entirely “ flexible ” economy , this drop in measured gdp ( and the concomitant rise in unemployment ) could have been avoided had the resources formerly employed to sell imported consumer goods quickly been brought to bear to generate exports . in the case of greece and portugal , for example , the tourism industry could absorb some unemployed sellers . but retail clerks and car dealers can not easily be transformed into the specialized , highly skilled employees that are needed in modern manufacturing industries . this fall in gdp , though a natural result of lower consumer imports , is often mistakenly perceived as something to be evaded , because it seems to imply that output is well below its “ potential ” line . but stores and showrooms can not be transformed into tourist attractions , whose capacity remains limited until enough time has passed to build new hotels , recreation facilities , and so on .
in 2013 , japan was the only advanced economy to loosen fiscal policy . but this year , the united kingdom appears to be the only one preparing to tighten its policy – and this assumes that recent political ruptures have not altered its fiscal orientation , which will be reflected in the premiership ’s chancellor last fall . most observers would agree that the level of government debt is still uncomfortably high in many advanced economies , so that it would be prudent for policymakers to discuss the strategies for bringing it down . but just when fiscal policy was actually being tightened when the cyclical economy seemed to call for easing it is now being eased , when conditions seemed to call for tightening . the output gap in the advanced economies has all but vanished , inflation is deflation , and world economic growth is forecast to be its strongest today since 2010 .
and , with demand extremely high and housing supply rigid – at least in the short run – prices go up . prior to widespread automobile ownership , land prices depended on location , and proximity to a central city , or local building blocks , conducted a premium . now , with severe congestion slowing traffic in major cities toward a crawl , the terms-of-housing gradient in housing prices is steep once again . perhaps this steepening of the us position gradient gradient could stall more than a decade if we were willing to shift to denser residential patterns . second , the 70-year period that began with the widespread diffusion of a automobile – during which one could reable to earn almost anywhere in a typical metropolitan area within a half-hour or below .
john maynard keynes famously said that “ in the long run we are all dead . ” that may be true , on a long enough timeline . but it is no excuse to dismiss longer-term considerations . with austerity – that is , a reduction in deficits once a recession has receded – recovery might take longer to be consolidated ; but , as soon as it is , economic performance becomes even more stable , because the government purse is sustainable . in fact , for the eurozone , the long run appears to have arrived , and the economy continues to live and kicking .
a country like china , with its extremely high saving rates exceeding local investment needs , can encourage investment in other parts of the world that is saving less , notably low , africa and asia . ( when american economists advising china to boost consumption and spending on saving is simply peddling bad habits of american cultural saving , saving , and invests far too little for america ’s future . ) a famous psychological experiment found that young children who could resist the immediate temptation of eating a marshmallow future , and thus earn two marshmallows in the future , were likelier to thrive as adults than those who could not . likewise , societies that defer persistent consumption to save and invest in the future will enjoy higher future incomes and greater retirement security . second , saving – and investment flows that are global – are global in nature .
but these “ green-energy ” bikes amount to victory of empty gestures over substance and reason – making them , sadly , representative of cop21 itself . the agreement reached in paris contains promises that , if enacted between now and february 2030 , the global economy will cost at least another $ 1 trillion annually – and possibly twice as much as policymakers make inefficient policy choices . that , in turn , makes the deal a “ costliest in us history . ” my peer-reviewed research paper , published in global policy , shows that the 2016-2030 promises to cut co2 emissions by 2100 by just 0.05 oc ( 0.09 ° fahrenheit ) . even if the promised emissions cuts continued throughout this century , the paris agreement would cut global temperature increases by just 0.17 ° c. scientists from the massachusetts institute of technology find a similar reduction in temperature .
russia , seeing its gross domestic product fall by 40 % since communism ’s end , needs to maintain its defense industry as one of its few sources of national income . an added concern , both for russia and asia , is that the russian government loses control to the unofficial , black-market flow of arms to china . intervention by two american aircraft carriers in taiwan ’s straits in march 1996 humiliated a chinese ally who had been bent on stopping intimidating taiwan with missile tests . despite initial railing denials by the kremlin , china early this year purchase two previous destroyers , together with russia ’s anti-boat cruise missiles . shut out of the united states ’ missile transfers ever since the tiennamen square incident of 1989 ; feeling increasingly “ encircled ” through the “ redefined ” japan-american alliance ( agreed in april 1996 ) ; china is especially anxious to upgrade and strengthen its military might ; and quickly .
but there is nothing typical about the pressures likely to continue squeezing american families long after november 6 . both obama and romney are running the risk of painting themselves into a corner when it comes to china . left unanswered , however , is what comes next . china bashers typically change course in the run-up to the just-concluded us presidential election . that could take us all on the slippery slope .
but rising individualism – a focus on one ’s own ambition and economic prosperity – poses a stubborn obstacle to realizing that vision . indeed , the utter lack of a sense of solidarity among so many people – horrifyingly apparent in america ’s health-care debate – now undermines the very foundation of what a modern democratic society stands for . they are people who , in some ways , lacked full citizenship , who demanded it , and who has redefined political order by obtaining it . today , the great challenge is to calm fears that our traditions are being undermined ; to reach out to people who come into our lands from elsewhere ; and to find ways to re-create our political ethic around the kernel of human rights , equality , non-discrimination , and democracy . if we succeed , we may well be able to develop a feeling that we are part of our own , though our reasons for believing , so may become different .
but halappanavar and her husband were then informed that ireland is a catholic country ; the fetus still had a heartbeat , so the proceedings were out of the question . halappanavar ’s death from september , whom her family is certain to fail to develop , had that termination been carried out . protests in iran put prime minister rekenny on the site , with activists there , like those in india , arguing that halappanavar had died as a result of a theocratic approach to health care . iranians ’ abortion-rights activists note that , legally , the life of the fetus does not take precedence over single life in their country ; on the contrary , it takes precedence over mother health , a distinction that american abortion opponents have long sought to replicate in the united states . the halappanavar case would thus revealingly reverses the western stereotype about eastern societies as the preserves of superstition and religious extremism .
one source of hope stems from abe ’s landslide victory in the recent snap general election , which gives him the political capital to move beyond park with a grand bargain : if japan expresses remorse more clearly for its militaristic past , south korea will agree to abandon historical grievances from its official policy . all countries , for example , are embracing “ legitimizing narratives ” blending historic reality and myth . but , to some extent , historical legacies may gain from excessive power , overwhelming leaders ’ capacity for rational policy choices . this helps to explain why park has struggled to pursue closer ties with china , despite the fact that south korea ’s natural regional partner is democratic japan . japan and south korea can not change the past ; indeed , they did not .
munich – as america ’s various rescue plans hold , stock markets are recovering somewhat . bank shares in particular are rebounding , and some banks have even succeeded in repaying at least part of their government-issued capital . at the same time , the s & p 500 price/earnings ratio is climbing gradually to its long-term average of 16 . but , as i point out in my new book kasino-kapitalismus , this may simply reflect a temporary improvement in expectations , rather than a sign of permanent recovery , because the size of banks ’ hidden losses on their balance sheets is probably enormous . according to the international monetary fund ’s most recent estimates , aggregate write-offs on funding claims in this crisis will total $ 4.05 trillion for the united states , japan , the european zone , and the united kingdom , of which america itself will need to absorb $ 2.7 trillion .
thirty years after bolivia ’s national revolution of 1952 ’s per capita income remained basically the same thing , with poverty steady at more than 50 % of gdp . a state-led developmental model in bolivia is doomed to failure , for it requires strong institutions , universal citizenship , and the rule of law . none of them can be found nowadays in bolivia , which implies that the state-building money concentrated in the country will surely be reallocated by patrimonial and clientelistic means , siphoned off corruption , and subjected to the social pressures of all kinds . whatever remains to be seen for government investment is certain to be wasted , because the projects typically transmit cost-benefit analysis when financing comes from easy money , generously furnished by mother nature . conceived , perhaps with its best intentions , morales ’s model casts hope for bolivia ’s poorest ; but , instead , merely paving the way for the frustrated hopes ­ – also nothing new in bolivia .
worse still , the successful military campaign against isis raises new fears about violent extremists returning from syria . in recent years , some of those drawn to islamist-inspired extremism have carried out attacks with rudimentary instruments , from cars and delivery trucks to kitchen knives . though violent extremists are an ultra-minority in muslim populations , their actions have fueled growing mistrust in french society . and similar fears of homegrown extremism can be seen in many other european countries as well . still , most french citizens remain deeply worried about the terrorist threat not only from abroad , but from people living in france , often with french citizenship .
while eight of the top ten host countries , including several underserved – and middle-income countries , have shouldered considerable costs despite a strain on their education systems to ensure that refugees attend school alongside nationals , most countries either exclude refugees from national education systems or assign them to separate facilities . this entrenches and hampers the impact of social integration on education . achieving the needed education transformation will require far more financing than is currently on offer . the two landmark global compacts on migration and refugees adopted by un member states last december highlight the way to address this challenge . as it stands , the global annual financing gap stood at nearly $ 40 billion .
the international monetary fund credits asian intra-regional trade as the main factor beyond its recent export boom and strong economic growth . africa , with its huge and often untapped markets , needs to follow the same path . africans themselves need to tackle these issues head-on , but our international partners have an important role to play . the discussion over the inability of international aid to produce development , combined with the current financial crisis , has added weight to arguments over development assistance . but the argument should not address whether to provide aid , no one can question the many achievements that aid has brought , or its importance in providing a safety net for those who otherwise might have been left to suffer .
london – when the united kingdom announced earlier this month that it had agreed to be a founding member of the china-led asian infrastructure investment bank ( aiib ) , most headlines focused not on the news itself , but on the friction that the decision implied between the uk and the united states . the white house issued a statement urging the british government to “ use its vote to push for the adoption of high standards . ” and one prominent american administration official was quoted blaming the uk for “ the constant accommodation of china , which is not the best way to engage a rising power . ” in the uk , the diplomatic spat has served as an occasion for the british press to air criticism from those who believe that the government should adopt a stronger stance toward china . in fact , it is america that is advocating the wrong approach .
the socialists are blamed for greedy financiers , but who does n’t ? ever since george w. bush showed the way toward bank nationalization , massive public spending , industrial bailouts , and budget deficits , leaving the socialists without wiggle room . indeed , it is hard to find any persuasively analysis of today ’s crisis from the left beyond anti-capitalist slogans . the socialists are blamed for greedy financiers , but who do n’t ? in remedies , the socialists are offering nothing less than the “ keynesian ” solution that the right is now proposing . french president nicolas sarkozy ’s attempts to rekindle growth through the protectionist defense of “ national industries ” and massive investment in public infrastructure , to what more may socialists ask for ?
moreover , they oppose key changes to european economic governance . core countries , led by germany , mistrust the over-indebted countries ’ determination to pursue reform as long as their financing preconditions are eased . they also call for faster implementation of the necessary changes to eurozone economic management to create a more stable and hospitable environment for fiscal consolidation and reform . a prolonged recession , punctuated by high – or prohibitive – borrowing costs makes achieving either fiscal or reform objectives becomes increasingly difficult , if not impossible . the burden of adjustment can not fall entirely on deficit countries unless and until this is ; a moral component of “ punishment ” matters .
this does not bode well for any future peace process . after all , western countries will need turkey to counterbalance a russia whose wider strategic agenda goes well beyond the middle east . for example , it recently raised eyebrows within nato yet again , by purchasing new-generation russia ’s s-400 aircraft batteries . when eu historians look back on the conflict in syria , they will praise both former us presidents barack obama and donald trump for relentlessly pursuing isis . moreover , turkey does not seem to care about what its allies think .
one of the few positive consequences of the 2008 financial crisis has been the elevation of the g-20 ’s global role ; in principle , it is a far more representative forum for international leadership than the g-7 ever was . there is , however , a downside to the emergence of the g-20 : large numbers of players can make the need for agreements to get things done . a new g-7 needs to be invented within the g-20 , thereby providing china with a degree of influence that reflects its great economic weight and demands it to assume a commensurate proportion of its global responsibilities . the uk is simply clever when it fosters its own interests by cooperating with china . space at a table for china could come to the table if european countries signaling their commitment to the common currency , agreed to surrender their individual seats in exchange for one representing the entire monetary union .
this leaves out the range of possibilities for choosing the next wbg president . it might choose a dual national or an immigrant like the former wbg president james wolfensohn , an australian who has become an american citizen . the us could pick an american who appeals to other countries : kim , for example , touted his korean origins during his 2012 campaign on that post . or it might back a non-american candidate from an “ allied ” country . what is important is that the appointee enjoys the trust of us and most other countries , and can reconcile countries ’ diverse interests in a true spirit of multilateralism .
and , in many cases , china-based think tanks have become instruments to expand the country ’s sphere of influence . in terms of shadow influence-peddling , china ’s actions have been particularly mindful of it . according to a report by the european council on foreign relations , china ’s belt and road initiative , with its need for comprehensive coordination , has created the perfect policy space for think tanks that tell a piece of good china tale to thrive . chinese president xi jinping has explicitly encouraged his country ’s think tanks to “ advance the chinese narrative globally . ” these include networks like rio de janeiro and individual think tanks like the charhar institute , which also recently established a chinese-american national committee on china-us relations .
world oil prices crossed $ 40 a barrel in mid-summer , and have since surged to the hardest-hit mid – $ 50 . today ’s oil prices still amount to only about two-thirds of the real peak reached during the 1979 iranian revolution , and futures markets anticipate that the price of oil will fall back and settle at perhaps $ 45 a barrel . yet the current high level of oil price has led forecasters to start reining in their own expectations for us economic growth . “ higher oil prices are here to stay , ” says the american economist forecaster allen sinai . “ [ t ] he hat has to subcontract growth and could cause core inflation to pick up . ”
and , owing to increased american scrutiny , chinese foreign direct investment in america has already collapsed by more than 80 % since its 2017 level . now , new legislative proposals are threatening to bar american public pension funds from investing in chinese firms , restrict chinese venture capital investment in the us , and force some chinese firms to delist out of american stock exchanges altogether . at the same time , cross-border flows of data and information will be ratcheted up , raising concerns about a “ splinternet ” between the us and china . at the same time , the us has grown more suspicious of us-based chinese students and scholars , who may be in a position to steal us technological know-how or engage in outright espionage . and , for its part , china will increasingly seek to circumvent the us-centric us-centric international financial system and shield itself from america ’s weaponization of the dollar .
far-flung military misadventures continue to extend the country ’s fiscal resources , with costs potentially running into many trillions of dollars , according to a recent study by linda bilmes and joseph stiglitz . in fact , us state and municipal finances are in an even worse shape . with fiscal revenues collapsing as a consequence of their plunging home prices and incomes , scores of american municipalities might well have walked into the “ receivership , ” as new york city did in the 1970s . the next year will almost certainly see a massive rise in america ’s corporate defaults , despite the fact that many firms entered a recession with relatively strong us balance sheets . america ’s debt hardly looks like a bargain right now , even without the sinking dollar .
collectively , their $ 55 billion in earnings outstripped every dollar of national income in over 100 countries . to put these astronomical numbers in perspective , i had gabon try to confirm that to rank among the top nine earners in the united states , you were forced to pull out in at least $ 150 a second , including time spent eating and sleeping . that is $ 9,000 per minute , or $ 540,000 per hour . how much do america ’s top income earners make comparisons to the world ’s poorest individuals ? well , if the top 9 donated its earnings , all would be the equivalent of roughly three months ’ income for the bottom billion .
american power is , instead , viewed as resting on the “ pillar of inspiration ” rather than the “ pillar of action . ” she is well-wisher for freedom and autonomy of all . but the soft power of inspiration is not the only ethical tradition in american foreign policy . for example , secretary of state john quincy adams famously declared on independence day in 1821 that the united states goes not abroad in search of monsters to destroy . she is the champion and vindicator of her alone .
the court ruled against the united states-based animal rights group persons for the ethical treatment of animals to exhibit posters that juxtapose photographs of the victims of the holocaust with photographs of animals in factory farms and slaughterhouses . according to the us court , germany ’s laws on freedom of speech did not protect peta ’s campaign , because , to make “ the fate of the holocaust ’s victims seem banal and trivial ” amounted to a pattern of contempt against human dignity . the posters bear the brunt : “ to animals , ” all men are nazis ” – a line from the polish jewish writer isaac bashevis singer . of course , peta was not arguing that the fate of holocaust victims was banal or trivial . on the contrary , it exploited the holocaust , on which we would all agree , as isaac bashevis singer does , that there are parallels between how the nazis treated jews and what we treated animals .
rather , they are fighting to protect their own interests and livelihoods , whether that operate a dairy farm or run a government . just as we continually seek to apply these kinds of new technologies to improve human and environmental wellbeing , this distinction is vitally important . avoiding the barriers to addressing technological progress requires understanding and addressing its downsides . for example , as machines become increasingly capable , robots are replacing an increasing number of white-collar workers . it will not be long before those robots will be able not only to perform more complex tasks , but also to learn faster than workers will be trained .
today , portugal is ahead of nearly € 20 billion ( $ 27.5 billion ) in greece . that represents a potential loss of more than 10 % of output for greece . indeed , lack of export-led growth has turned the recession in greece far longer and deeper than it otherwise might have been . if greek exports grew at the same rate as those of portugal ( or spain ) , a greek recession would have ended now . moreover , the weakness of exports of export growth has made fiscal adjustment far more difficult .
given that 80 % of mexico ’s total exports go to the us , the effects on mexico would be economically crippling and politically destabilizing , leaving the country even less equipped to do anything about illegal immigration . in other words , us trade sanctions were deployed neither to address a trade issue nor as part of a legitimate sanctioning iran , such as that imposed on russia following its illegal annexation of crimea in march 2014 . in contrast to the usmca , which at least premised on the goal of addressing trade issues , trump ’s tariff pronunciamento has been a bald-faced attempt to compel the mexican administration to solve america ’s own immigration problem . once commercial actions are used indiscriminately to advance us goals , the damage to the entire trading system does – and may be enormous . on the rare occasions when us trade sanctions were deployed on non-trade grounds , they were a measure of last resort , like those imposed by south africa , where they have succeeded because they have multilateral support .
new delhi – according to the united nations population division , the world ’s human population hit seven billion on october 31 . after all , the un forecasts that the global population will rise to 9.3 billion in 2050 , and will surpass ten billion by the end of this century . such forecasts , however , misrepresent the underlying demographic dynamics . as always happens whenever we approach such a milestone , this one produced a spike in conferences , seminars , and learned articles , including usual dire malthusian predictions . the future we are facing is not one of too much population growth , but of too little .
the european union applies pressure on all parties , including russia , where it holds out the possibility that economic sanctions will be lifted as an eventual reward for the kremlin ’s support in peacetime efforts . in exchange , the kremlin has committed to support – but only after the constitution changes – ukraine ’s national government in its reassertion of control over those regions , as well as over its borders with russia . in theory , actual negotiations are being conducted between the government in kyiv and the separatist leaders . russia has offered to use what it calls its “ limited influence ” to constrain rebel governments in order to cooperate . if , however , russia actually controls full-fledged separatist regions and actively integrate them into its economy , as bild has suggested , the kremlin can no longer be seen as outside party , attempting to leverage its uncooperative ally .
nothing reveals the decline of the united states in the region better than the contrast between america ’s sober use of power in the first gulf war of 1991 , and the hubris and deceit of today ’s iraq war . back in 1991 , america forged the most formidable international coalition since world war ii , guiding it in a fully legitimate war aimed at restoring the regional balance following saddam hussein ’s invasion of kuwait . in doing so , america embarked on a preposterous grand strategy that aimed no less to simultaneously dismantling iraq ’s tyrannical rule , restructuring the whole middle east , destroying al-qaeda , and helping democracy taking root throughout the arab world . in 2003 , america went to war without its trans-atlantic allies , after manipulating bogus assertions . the result has been sheer failure : military defeat and severe degradation of america ’s moral stand .
one of the weirdest claims made in social-insurance debates now roiling the world ’s richest countries is that government-sponsored defined-benefit retirement programs ( like america ’s social security system ) are outmoded . such programs were fine , the argument goes , for the pre-industrial economies of the great depression and post-world war ii generation , but they became obsolete in today ’s high-tech , networked , post-industrial economics . advocates of this argument propose a different model . just as corporations today are much happier support workers ’ retirement income by contributing to employees ’ private account , so today ’s governments should offer ( or require ) donations to privately owned accountants . the value of these accounts would fluctuate with the us market , rather than relying on a defined-benefit scheme that ensures a rigid , real sum of resources available upon retirement .
does anyone in their right mind think that any country would willingly pour through what greece has gone through , just as it should receive a free ride from its creditors ? so is not debt restructuring , but its absence that is somehow immoral . indeed , greece ’s current plight , including the heavy run-up in debt-to-gdp ratios , is largely the result of the faulty troika ’s programs foisted on it . if there is moral hazard , it is on the part of the lenders – particularly in the private sector – that have been bailed out repeatedly . if europe has allowed those debts to migrate from the private sector to the public sector – a well-crafted pattern over the last half-century , it is europe , not greece , that should carry out the consequences .
if europe , china , and other us trade partners retaliated in response to trump ’s tariffs , they would simply reduce their own gains from trade with no of reaping any of the benefits of protectionism . neither scenario makes a great deal of sense today . employment considerations , either . europe and china are not particularly interested in depressing world prices for their imports or the resulting revenues . while some european countries suffer from high levels of unemployment , there is nothing that protectionism can do for those countries that expansionary fiscal or monetary policies ( the latter by the european central bank ) can not do better .
that is the view taken by many in syria even among the insurgents . saving obama ’s honor scarcely seems worth that risk . it is the view of the majority of men in europe that makes it possible for us to deal with them . perhaps it is even obama himself who plays out for time , desperately turning over approval for the attack on syria to the american congress . it is the view that the majority of people in europe are engaged .
it is this kind of god that atheists like dawkins and hitchens are hit upon . but we tend to retain to adulthood the same views of god that we formed in childhood . and , with such a goal , it is not quite hard to poke holes and pile up against jews . leave aside the fact that you may be able to make an even stronger case against “ godlessness ” – recall the atrocities of the twentieth century ’s atheist totalitarians , and consider a assault on those whose commitment to literal interpretations of religious texts means that they deny science and reason . an old man with long beard note over the us , and much of us retained a fairly literal view of stories about his son told at the bible of the new testament .
their preferred model calls for the un to provide funding and , most further , support for mission , while allowing the au to maintain its leadership role . but the un has found it hard to attract sufficient un volunteers for such a force , given that foreign governments have acceded to sudanese demands that the hybrid powers remain predominantly african . at the same time , a complex chain of command envisaged by the au-un force recalls some of the worst features of the nato-led operations in the former yugoslavia during the 1990 ’s . au commanders would retain tactical control , a joint au-un command would exercise operational supervision , and the un would establish force through general strategic goals . yet many western governments refuse to lay down their forces under the au ’s command , owing to its perceived vulnerabilities and conditioned further support for peacekeeping operations in darfur on the un ’s assumption of control .
new york – there was a remarkable resemblance to european central bank president mario draghi ’s declaration , after the recent meeting of the ecb ’s governing council , and us federal reserve chair janet yellen ’s first us testimony to congress : both asserted that their policy decisions would take into account only domestic conditions . in other words , emerging-market countries , however subject to major spillover effects from advanced economies ’ expansionary monetary policies , are on their own . this confirms what emerging-country institutions have known for a while . in 2010 , following the fed ’s announcement of a third round of quantitative easing ( qe ) , brazilian finance minister guido mantega accused advanced countries of waging a global “ currency war . ” after all , advanced economies ’ policies have been driven by large and volatile capital inflows to major emerging markets , pushed up their exchange rates , and damaging their export competitiveness – a phenomenon that brazilian president dilma rousseff later referred to as the “ capital tsunami ” ” – for a while .
riyadh – saudi arabia has lately drawn much of its criticism for its leadership role in the war against houthi insurgents in yemen . some deride the kingdom , the richest arab state , for taking action against the country ’s poorest people . others have argued that the fight against the houthis – the zaidi shia-led muslim political movement – is but one element in a broader shia war that saudi arabia has supposedly waging . these are simplistic claims , reflecting a fundamental misunderstanding of the kingdom ’s role in yemen – and , indeed , throughout the arab world . saudi arabia is not out to get its zakis .
most fundamentally , what does china represent in terms of its values and ideas ? in ignoring the answer to this question , china ’s over-assertive policies have proven a diplomatic boon for the us in strengthening and expanding america ’s security arrangements in asia . china has shown itself adept at assertively promoting its national interests and playing classical us-led “ balance-of-power geopolitics . ” south korea tightened its military alliance with the us ; japan backed down from a shift to the us in order to shore up its naval airbase from okinawa ; and india , vietnam , indonesia , and the philippines , among others , have drawn closer alignment with the us . but , to dismiss the american and take the mantle of us leadership in asia , china must do more than follow its own interests or contain potential rivals .
and while female employment rates have declined as women have left minimum-wage jobs , wages , especially for store clerks , have risen sharply . given the program ’s dramatic success , other countries are following suit . lithuania imposed a less generous version of its family 500 + in 2018 . instead of borrowing to make payments for expensive “ school sets ” students feel obliged to purchase , poles have used their 500 + benefits to the eu . those who care about democracy in poland , hungary , and elsewhere in europe and beyond should acknowledge that many voters are buying into the nationalist right ’s vision of a social state that advances national priorities , cares for the poor , and subsidize families .
to be fair , un resolution 242 can not be blamed for this state of affairs . different people read it to mean different ones , and they should not be blamed for them already . that can make the resolution easier to take . peace arrives only when a conflict becomes ripe for a resolution that takes place when leaders in the principal protagonists are both willing and able to embrace compromise . thus comes as little wonder that there is still no peace between israelis and palestinians , despite countless diplomatic undertakings by the united nations , the european union , and its members , the un , and the parties themselves .
that , too , is unlikely to change under saakashvili . instead , georgian ’s long-term economic success will depend on exports to the russian market : neither georgian wine nor georgian fruit is necessary in the us or italy . on the other hand , this should become less of a burden on the bilateral relationship as russia moves closer to nato , the us and the european union . shevardnadze ’s emphasis on the btc pipeline also clearly reflects georgia ’s pro-western strategic orientation . the baku-tbilisi-ceyhan oil pipeline – which circumvent russia when it does meet – can not redefines the country ’s economic strategy toward the degree that shevardnadze has sought .
none of this means , of course , that the international intervention in libya will succeed ; the situation in libya is far too complicated to predict the outcome . what it does mean , however , is that europe is finding ways to work when it comes to foreign policy . but the lesson of the libyan intervention is that division can be overcome if the will exists . europe is not a monolith , but in many areas that may yet act as cohesiveness , even without a complete agreement . whether the outlier is germany or the other eu member state , the division needs not be fatal .
likewise , life expectancy at birth in ssa countries lagged by 16 years behind the developed-country average , 14 years behind countries in south asia and 21 years behind those in east asia , latin america , and the caribbean . in combined gdp growth in primary , secondary , and higher education , ssa countries stood at 19 % below average for developing countries , 11 percentage points lower than south asia , 29 % lower than east asian and pacific , and 32 % lower than in latin america and the caribbean . what accounts for this broad-based underdevelopment ? until the late 1800 ’s , most of africa was unexplored and occupied by hunter-gatherers and practitioners of subsistence agriculture . land was relatively plentiful and allocated by tribal chiefs without regard for western-style property rights .
geneva – the recent sharp spike in food prices and mounting concern about food insecurity has sparked anxiety worldwide . failure to put food on the desk fills parents with a deep-seated sense of foreboding . the seemingly unalterable factors generating these record-setting rises in food prices – a shift to higher protein diets in a range of countries , growing populations , greater use of biofuels , and climate change – suggest that rising food prices are here to stay . in the absence of solutions that are fueling rising pressure on supplies , hunger and malnutrition will intensify . and , because the world ’s poorest people spend an extra share of their income on food , those who are experiencing the worst effects are affected , raising the risk that years of progress in reducing poverty could reverse .
this is not an easy task at a time when societies are deeply deeply divided by ethnicity , religion , or social status . as francis fukuyama has pointed out , developing an able state that is accountable and ruled by legislation is one of crowning achievement of human civilization . it involves creating a shared sense of “ us , ” an imagined community on whose behalf the state behaves . as harvard ’s lant pritchett , michael woolcock , and andrews argue when inept organizations adopt “ best practices ” such as the us financial management system and the procurement of procurement rules , they are becoming too distracted by decision-distort protocols to do whatever it was established to do whatever it was established to do . and this is what the anti-corruption agenda often ends in stimulating matters : creating more obsessed organizations abiding by new and burdensome processes than meeting their stated goals .
likewise , erdoğan has positioned himself as a type of protector of turks ’ dignity and a sense of themselves as constituting a great power . with the syrian conflict raging next door , yet erdoğan ’s claims are far from persuasive . he has overseen the presidential palace by 2014 , and surrounded by a guard , meant evoke ottoman splendor , a relatively transparent effort to counter his inability to shape regional developments according to his – much less that of his country ’s – interests . turkey is confronting a refugee crisis that dwarfs the one confronting europe ; the proliferation of terrorist attacks on its territory ; and heightened tensions with the kremlin , following its downing of a russian warplane near its border with syria in november . this approach mirrors that of russian president vladimir putin , who uses the sumptuous trappings and the immense resources of his office to claim credit for revitalizing his country ’s national pride , particularly in trying to compel ordinary russians to make economic sacrifices .
new york – president bill clinton ’s trip to africa highlighted the american way -- typically most neglectful of africa , aside from the moment during a deep crisis – of dramatic change on the continent . and at this year ’s world economic forum summit in south africa , almost 900 business leaders from around the american , european , asia , and afghanistan met with new political leadership to chart a way forward . of course , of course , and outcomes are two distinct matters . it is on most measures , a couple of decades , if not a century or more , behind advanced economies in economic organization and income levels . africa has a long road ahead for the rest of asia .
as the romanian philosopher e. cioran argues : “ as soon as a man loses a faculty of indifference he becomes a potential murderer ; as soon as he transforms his idea into a divine human being , the consequences are incalculable . ” what we tend to believe is “ better dead than red ” you are in trouble . dying to save your homeland , a family , or a country might be rational ; it is the best that we have to do with it . yet martyrdom is also different and dangerous . over the past hundred years , contests of nationalism ( with god on both sides ) almost annihilated europe and the cold war could do so .
that , in a nutshell , was the soviet model that failed , once , and will fail again . at a time when the world is facing so many destabilizing challenges , this would be bad for anybody . if putin is serious about diversifying and strengthening russia ’s commodities-based economy , thereby improving his country ’s livelihoods , he will need to attract advanced technologies and foreign investment , particularly from the west . for that to happen , he needs to pursue democratic reform , institutional regeneration , and renewed diplomatic ties with the west . russia is in no position to create an alternative international system ; but , as long as putin continues to pursue an outdated and antagonistic foreign policy , he can undermine the incumbent .
cambridge – will the political resurgence of labor unions be tossed in the wheels of globalization ? or will their increasing strength serve to make globalization more sustainable through the promotion of great equality and fairness ? unions ’ rising influence is apparent on many recent occasions : german chancellor angela merkel ’s controversial deal to raise the minimum wage for the postal employee ; several american presidential candidates ’ open-ended misgivings about trade and immigration ; and chinese leadership ’s nascent concerns about labor standards . together with their political clout , trade union leaders ’ intellectual respectability is also experiencing a renaissance . one way or another , union leaders stand as the major wild card for advancing our economic system in 2008 and beyond .
the targeted killing by the united states by one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . and that shift would occur at a time of heightened challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 that what will weigh on the present for many years to come .
yet ambitious plans to boost its hydro-generating capacity considerably , by damming the international rivers , strip out the country in a water dispute with most of its neighbors , even north korea . more broadly , china ’s dam-building passion has spawned two key developments . first , chinese firms now dominate the global hydropower-producing market . sinohydro alone , having eclipsed western plant suppliers like abb , alstom , the general electric , and siemens , claims to control up to half the market . second , the state-run hydropower industry ’s increasing clout within china has led the government to campaign fiercely for offshore dam projects by offering low-interest-rate loans to other governments .
new york – there are many recurring debates over american foreign policy , for example , of isolationism versus internationalism , and of unilateralism versus multilateralism . during the cold war , those who argue that the united states should attempt to “ roll back ” the soviet union brought down its communist system , replacing it with democratic capitalism . others viewed this as too dangerous in an era defined by nuclear weapons , with america choosing instead for a policy of containment , working to limit the reach of soviet power and influence . this debate between “ realists ” and “ idealists ” ” looks intense and long-time . but no debate is more tenacious than that among those who believe that american foreign policy ’s principal purpose should be to influence the outside behavior of other states and those holding that it should shape its domestic nature .
until last month , may avoided defining this phrase for fear of antagonizing her party ’s hardline europhobes . but , in her florence speech , may has promised british enterprises something close to current levels of admission into eu markets . she has also recognized that any privileged access to eu markets will require budget contributions , as has been done in norway and switzerland . second , a british budget bid would be a powerful tool to establish the “ deep and special partnerships ” ” ” with europe that may claim to be her ultimate goal . if britain ’s transition payments continue near the current level of € 10 billion over the next five or six years realistically required it to negotiate a permanent trading relationship , they would add as much to the same level .
may has no electoral mandate to pursue a hard brexit . even if may is able to strike an exit deal , by negotiating and ratifying the sector-by-sector trade deal under two years in a row is impossible . the eu-canada comprehensive economic and trade agreement , for example , has taken seven years to hash out – and was almost scotched by belgium ’s parliament . many of the 52 % of britons who voted to leave want to remain in the single market because do all of those who voted to remain . there can not be a phased implementation ” of the “ no-deal brexit , ” which is why uk-based automobile companies , financial institutions , and other firms that export to the eu now should start preparing for a “ cliff edge ” that may want to avoid .
new york – for every obvious reason , the israeli-palestinian issue is decisive . at the same time , open societies are incompatible with closed economies . this is both enormously important and healthy . a functioning private sector that creates adequate employment , and the schools that train the large young populations for today ’s inter-connected world are prerequisites of progress . for the first time , there is a lively and smart discussion around this question that lies at the heart of the middle east ’s troubles .
in his many successful years as mayor of sibiu , iohannis distinguishing himself from the charismatic and shrewd politician of whom romanian politicians are accustomed to whom romanian leader , proving that he is a sober , laconic , and a pragmatic administrator . this pattern of demeanor is part of what made it so difficult to foresee its victory over an increasingly talkative ponta . but iohannis different not only in his own political approach ; he is evangelical lutheran in a predominantly orthodox country . the vigorous religious attacks mounted against him during the campaign stressed that reality ’s salience toward an establishment , though the orthodox leaders who backed ponta quickly mounted their rhetoric to support tolerance and build cooperation . the electorate seemed tired of the deliver confrontation between baksescu and ponta , and , more generally , of the noisy , nasty , nasty and treacherous burlesque that their countries ’ political scene had become .
some of these may be taught or cultivated , and courses that teach positive mental habits – like appreciating things that matter , or they avoid dwelling on setbacks – have shown measurable improvements in wellbeing . how countries govern will have an enormous impact on happiness . the dalai lama recently helped launch a number of such courses in london , developed through happiness action , an organization that i helped to found . british prime minister david cameron has introduced measuring the measurement of happiness in his national statistics , and , more recently , german chancellor angela merkel has launched a program to promote citizen ’s wellbeing . at the same time , whole societies may be trying to boost their happiness .
all of this raises a key question : does america even need an overarching design for its foreign policy ? more recently , there has been an event-driven shift toward cooperation with russia on ending syria ’s civil war , following a chemical-weapons attack that left at least 1,400 people dead . the new world order has given way to an order-less world in which trustworthiness and predictability have given way to rapid shifts in focus and fickle commitments . if the result is to make its foreign policy seem to be less reliable and predictable – or , worse , susceptible to a misunderstanding , then it certainly does not . israel , too , is a tiny part of this general pattern .
it is also difficult to trace back to the origins of the credit explosion in the 1980 ’s and the proliferation of exotic and under-appreciated financial instruments that lay at its heart since the crisis of 2007-2008 . the most dangerous trends , including the upsurge of global imbalances and the economy ’s dramatic financialization , have accelerated dangerously from the very 2004 onwards . thatcher herself was not a credit enthusiast once famously said that “ i do n’t believe in the credit cards . ” the bank of 1986 put a complete end to the pure self-regulation regime . financial interests have opposed italy vigorously at that time , viewing it as the thin end of a dangerous wedge , though they could not guess only how thick that the wedge will finally become .
alas , given us president barack obama ’s lamentable handling of the crisis in syria , israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu may conclude that he has no option but to go it alone . a us unilateral military strike would carry potentially dire consequences , and , with it , the situation again complicated . indeed , iranian hardliners may welcome an israeli punch , and even seek to provoke it as a means of rallying the iranian population behind them . there is a better alternative to preventing the proliferation of nuclear and other weapons of mass destruction in the region : a wmd-free zone , ” built on a system of incentives that incorporate economic and technical support for countries that join , as well as security guarantees from un security council permanent members . at the same time , the zone should enforce economic and political sanctions against states that choose to remain outside , and – again backed by the security council ’s permanent members – impose military sanctions against those attempting to develop wmds .
cambridge – more than 130,000 people are said to have died in syria ’s civil war at the time . united nations reports about atrocities , online images of attacks against civilians , and accounts for the suffering of refugees rend our hearts . but what is to be done , and by whom ? most recently , canadian scholar-politician michael ignatieff has urged american president barack obama to impose a no-fly zone over syria , despite the near-certainty that russia will veto the united nations security council resolution needed to legalize such a move . in ignatieff ’s view , if syrian president bashar al-assad is allowed to continue to dominate , his forces will obliterate the remaining sunni insurgents – at least for now ; with hatreds inflamed , blood eventually flows .
it is far too early to judge the historic impact of the arab spring , but if one conclusion that can be drawn today is that israel and its palestinian neighbors have little to do with it . for americans ( and others ) who believe that the arab world thinks about nothing but the palestinian cause , the events this spring in north africa , the arabian peninsula , and even the levant were to convince them otherwise . now that a raucous regional predicament is stalking into american election season ( where no issue is excluded from the political arena ) , the task of assembling those components will be even greater trouble . in the months ahead , we can expect the region ’s countries to remain focused on issues of governance and capacity-building , human rights , and on creating economies responsive to their restive citizens ’ demands for a better life . new arab leaders will be struggling with the public ’s expanding expectations and their willingness to move behind a peace process that is taking the back seat to that struggle .
london – vulnerable communities are facing the reversal of action on climate change – from rising sea levels and extreme weather events to prolonged severe droughts and flooding . according to the world bank , without effective mitigation measures , climate change could push more than 100 million people out of poverty by 2030 . to help the most vulnerable communities become more resilient to climate-change effects , financial institutions should support small and medium-size enterprises . in emerging economies , smes account for as many as 45 % of employment and up to 33 % of gdp – and those figures are considerably higher when they comprise informal smes . when an sme builds its own climate resilience , it can cascading throughout the communities around it .
agricultural production accounts for about half of anthropogenic methane systems , but wastewater systems , landfills , and coal mining also create gas . cutting methane is , in fact , cheaper than cutting co2 . professor claudia kemfert of the germany institute for economic research ( diw ) argues that spending $ 14 billion to $ 30 billion to reduce methane would generate benefits – from reduced warming rates to three times higher . and , because methane causes much shorter-lived gasoline than co2 , we can avoid some of the worst effects of short-term warming through mitigation . we could also place a larger focus on cutting black carbon , viewed as responsible for roughly 40 % of current net warming and one-third of arctic melting .
large numbers of chinese students took over tiananmen square in 1989 to demand more rights , embracing a symbol resembling a statue of liberty . today , too , it is not america ’s military strength that poses challenges or challenges to china ; rather , it is the enduring attraction of the “ american dream . ” china ’s challenge , however , may prove to be more difficult . it has never had to deal with others as an equals , in contrast to the traditional european powers that have done so for centuries . it does not only have to live with the realities of american power ; it also needs to account for the american ideal .
but , collectively , eu member states – even without the united kingdom – would represent a power of a similar magnitude . a stronger , more reunified europe , the argument goes , could then outcompete america and china in most domains – including , by “ weaponizing ” its economic resources , to advance its geostrategic goals . yet europe ’s leaders tempted by the prospect of the g3 world must address two related concerns . first , it is unclear how the eu will achieve the necessary level of integration , when most important decisions within the bloc still call for unanimity among its member states . by bolstering its strategic sovereignty , therefore , europe could make such a g-3 world reality .
that , after all , is how the us administration was grappling with canada and mexico . both countries maintain relatively open economies with stronger protections in specific industries . regulatory divergences constitute a far more important obstacle to us-european trade than tariffs . trump has so far exempted those two countries from tariffs , but now expects concessions from them in his administration ’s renegotiation of the north american free trade agreement . whereas the us has less tariff protections than europe , the difference ’s unweighted customs tariff averages 5.2 percentage points , versus 3.5 % for the us ) .
we do not need to believe in genetic determinism to discover that argument compelling . do n’t i , for example , have the rights of control within my own body ? do n’t i , somehow , yet “ own ” “ own ” ” do i persist ? proprietary rights for commercial firms over the most fundamental component of an individual ’s genetic identity should not apply . how can a commercial firm not only deny me the right to know my own genetic profile unless i pay their fee for a diagnostic test that might be fair enough , but also prevents any other firm from offering me a similar test unless those firms pay it a license fee ?
instead , they argued , we should “ “ “ “ end ” the demand for paid sex ” in the world – but without explaining how this should be carried out . for that reason , the international secretariat of the global alliance against traffic in women has applauded amnesty international for promoting decriminalization . at the same time , there has been an opposition group from some feminist organizations that accused an amnesty of protecting “ pimps ” rights and johns hopping . indeed , in a species that reproduce sexually , sex , is , for obvious reasons , one of the strongest and most pervasive urges . human beings are no exception when it comes to this respect .
propelled by demand and outsourcing by advanced economies , emerging markets won an ever-larger share of the soaring merchandise trade gap ; by 2014 , they accounted for more than half of all global trade flows . since the great recession , however , growth in global merchandise trade has stalled , largely owing to anemic demand in the world ’s major economies and plummeting commodity prices . as a result , many firms are both simplifying and shoring up their supply chains . for a wide range of goods , automation means that the location of manufacturing and cost outsourcing decisions no longer depend mainly on labor costs . but deeper structural change also plays a role .
what it does not seem to recognize is that america ’s deteriorating ties with russia , a key conduit for america ’s military supply to afghanistan , could undercut its basing strategy . clearly , the us is convinced that an ongoing military presence in afghanistan is in its own interests . in fact , former us secretary of state condoleezza rice has explicitly linked russia to trump ’s actions in ukraine with a “ talk of withdrawal from afghanistan , ” whether security situation warrants it or not . in its view , anything less than a residual force of 10,000 american troops will send the message that the us is not serious about helping to stabilize afghanistan , a message that would embolden russian president vladimir putin further . nonetheless , there is strong bipartisan us support for retaining the military bases in afghanistan as a means of projecting hard power , and an increasingly charged confrontation between america and russia over ukraine has boosted that support considerably .
indeed , polish prime minister beata szydło has already launched that strategy by refusing to sign off on the summit ’s official posts , as if this will render the outcome inconsequential to poland . to be sure , the government has paralyzed the court , undermining the rule of law in poland . in a sign of what is to come , poland ’s foreign minister , witold waszczykowski , told tabloid tree-superekspres after a summit that the eu was pursuing “ a policy of double standards and deceptions . ” such infantile ploys have become all too characteristic of the pis government , which has also refused to publish polish constitutional tribunal ruling , as if that still makes them legally non-binding . in a hint of what comes to mind , poland ’s ’s foreign minister , witold waszczykowski , told the tabloid superekspres after a summit that the eu was pursuing “ a policy of a double standard and deceptions . ” according to
indeed , there is excellent potential for low-cost solar power , zero-emitting technology , and a secure and trustworthy nuclear power . solar radiation , at its current level , equals roughly 10,000 times our current level of energy use . important energy technologies will include the conversion of coal to liquids ( like gasoline ) , the use of tar sands and crude oil , and the growth of non-fossil-fuel energy sources . we tap that solar power in a range of fundamental ways – food production , wind power , hydroelectric power , hydroelectric power , solar heating , solar-thermal electricity , solar panels – but the possibilities for vastly increased use of inexpensive , broadly available , and environmentally friendly solar power are massive . doing so will require massive investment in new technologies and resources , not a “ fight to finish ” over middle east oil .
in the 1950 ’s , asia conjured up images of poverty and starvation as well . asia ’s re-emergence began with japan ’s economic success . there was a sort of brief political infatuation among some westerners in the 1960 ’s with nehru ’s jackets and maoist revolutions , but that short . as john lennon sang in 1968 , “ when you carry carrying on the pictures of chairman mao , you ai can make it with anyone anywheeling ” how . by the turn of the century , japan ’s remarkable performance not only made japan ’s wealthy , but also bolstered the country ’s soft power .
europeans would have benefited directly through improved internet access , lower energy costs , and more efficient transportation links . but , with high-level austerity and eu countries looking for ways to stimulate spending , the council should also consider the shape of the budget , by ensuring that the mff does not impede future growth and investment . for example , the proposed eu budget slashes funding for cross-border infrastructure projects , including expanding high-speed broadband networks to rural areas and developing transportation and energy infrastructure . but the eu can add significant value by coordinating supranational infrastructure projects to achieve economies of scale and avoiding a duplicity of national spending . likewise , to lay the foundations for future economic growth , the eu should nurture new , sustainable industries , and innovative small and medium-size enterprises ( smes ) – not cutting funding for systemically important research programs like the eu 2020 .
in the run-up to the sichuan earthquake , criticism of china will become even more muted . in may 1997 denmark , a people whose peoples are demonstrably committed to human rights , asked the united nations human rights commission in geneva to look into the ccp ’s long track record of abuses . china responded by canceling the danish trade mission , but it was wrong to do so . france got the message , and the french soon stopped promoting human-rights resolutions directed at china . the french were then rewarded with a merger of highly lucrative contracts in china .
in the sdg framework , discrete gender and health issues are intertwined , because gender itself is a major driver of health outcomes . gender can influence whether one smokes tobacco , exercises periodically , or have access to nutritious food . the global agenda in this area determines the norms and norms that shape how public and private actors promote health , prevent illness , and administer their own care . it encompasses researcher-specific initiatives and global public goods like vaccines and emergency-preparedness programs for epidemic development . and it brings people together to work toward deliver universal health coverage and guarantee everyone ’s right to health .
still , just a plurality of women ’s presence has an impact . for example , studies by america ’s courts with multiple justices indicate that male judges are more willing to hear bias cases when one woman is up in the bench and markedly more willing when the next woman adds up . “ each us president , ” noted sandra day o’connor , the first female member of an american supreme court to be renowned for not wanting to be perceived as a “ female ” judiciary , “ brings to our job , ” whatever that is , our lifetime of our experience and our own values . ” in other words , because women bring a fresh perspective , women are heard clearly only when the critical mass of them is present in any institution . consider a woman as a perspective on conflict in her own .
ultimately , an advisor to authoritarian leaders can not escape the dilemma . the philosopher michael walzer puts it well : “ it ’s easy to get one ’s hands filthy in politics . ” but choosing action for a greater good does n’t absolve us from the realm of moral culpability . our hands go dirty when our aid a terrorist or a dictator ; we just do n’t . but , immediately , he adds , that this makes one ’s hands dirty in that way is “ often the right thing to do . ”
but in 1991 , 800,000 yemenis were expelled , because they were perceived as home security threats in the run-up to the first gulf war . since then , the yemeni labour party has been banned from saudi arabia . embittered and unemployed , young yemeni men often became subject to another saudi policy loathed by another saudi policy gone awry – its propagation of the sunni wahhabi form of islam . with new wahhabi madrasas rose everywhere in yemen , owing to saudi financial aid , it is tiny wonder that the number of yemeni jihadis has grown exponentially . but yemen , too , has been engaged in its own destructive policies .
independently , honjo and her colleagues have identified another protein that performing a similar function . these basic studies have now driven the development of new and powerful immunotherapies that are potent anti-cancer . but there is still much that should be learned about how we work together . for certain patients with certain cancers , immunotherapy has become revolutionary , enabling people on the verge of dying to live healthy lives with no detectable observations of the disease . yet the immunotherapy revolutions remain in their infancy .
but it has followed through on the macro level and problem elsewhere in the economy , with no examination of themselves . the good news is that if every place has proved that it can innovate around , it is silicon valley . silicon valley ’s citizens must start applying their skill at innovation – and the degree of pride in “ breaking things ” – to themselves . the only way forward is by adjusting to new ecological pressures , and now to silicon valley , owing largely to its own highly visible behavior , faces many . unless and until things change , they will be overtaken .
for starters , we trained peasant farmers how to improve their soils by expanding legume crops , the residues of which can be used as goat fodder . recognizing the benefits of such practices , farmers immediately began to increase crop density , applying dung and rotating crops to increase yields and produce more feed for healthier goats . here , too , the innovation platform helps to deliver . establishing a structured , well-functioning goat market helps to produce a positive feedback loop . if farmers become confident that their goats will not be stolen and can sell them at a decent price , then they are better able to invest in upgrading their output system .
in the early nineteenth century , wages stagnated for almost 50 years before deleveraging once again . that may have been an extreme situation in the making . but for lower-skilled workers , the transition underway today could prove just as wrenching . looking ahead , policymakers and businesses should keep the five imperatives in mind . with fears of increased inequality already mounting , governments will need to rethink policies to provide income and job-transition support to displaced workers .
less than three years later , a set of reform recommendations produced by kagame and the pan-african committee of experts that he appointed , through an inclusive consultative process involving african leaders and other actors , is being implemented . fortunately , the mindsets are beginning to take a shift , beginning with the transition . at a 2016 au summit in kigali , african leaders recognized that , despite the au ’s achievements , they remained under-resourced and inefficient , operating below potential and failing to execute many decisions . to reinvigorate the au , they tasked rwandan president paul kagame with guiding a process in which all of them have since become deeply engaged . this is largely a matter of thinking , not of purpose .
suppose ilan goldfajn , brazil ’s star central banker , issues a bond in new york , and uses dollar proceeds to enlarge the country ’s international reserve currency . at best , market participants will applaud decision-making ; at worst , they will be indifferent , because brazil ’s net debt position will not change . more fundamentally , why are we to think of reserves differently than we think of other assets on national balance sheets ? both countries have floating exchange rates , which means that their central banks are not tempted to intervene in the currency market by buying and selling reserves . now , suppose that one of argentina ’s private agricultural exporters also matters an international bond and use the dollars to enlarge one of its more powdered milk to asia .
in india , for example , prime minister narendra modi is implementing a strategy that transforms india into a tech powerhouse and sets the stage for a digital future . while other countries are embracing robust digital grand strategies , the americas is falling behind . in france , the government has been investing in an expansive domestic digital plan that is expected to generate 1.1 million manufacturing jobs over the next 3-5 years , and is contributing $ 101 billion to gdp over the next decade . in india , for example , prime minister narendra modi is implementing a strategy that is transforming india into a tech powerhouse and sets the stage for a digital future . the consequences are already becoming apparent : according to a 2016 bloomberg innovation index , on average , the us is now the world ’s eighth most innovative country , having fallen two spots since 2015 .
in georgia , for example , political parties that comprise at least 30 % of every gender on their electoral lists receive a 30 % supplement from the country ’s state budget . likewise , in ireland , political parties lose 50 % of their national funding if their candidate pool comprises fewer than 30 % of either gender . beyond funding constraints , women face high social and cultural barriers to political participation . above all , greater care responsibilities reinforce public perceptions of a woman ’s role , ” severely undermining women ’s capacity to run for public office . fortunately , in order to address this problem , some countries are introducing innovative measures .
furthermore , as is so often the case , sanctions may have done more to decimate the middle class and further weaken the least powerful than to motivate iran ’s leaders to seek an agreement . by all accounts , iran is a society deeply divided between those who want their country to be a respected member of the international community and those to whom iran ’s international standing better serves via its ballistic-missile program . that might well be true if iran were a “ full-fledged democracy , ” with genuine responsibility to the will of the people . the international sanctions that have been imposed on iran would appear to support the latter , rather than the former . but there is scant evidence to suggest that sanctions have done anything to slow iran ’s nuclear program .
for starters , one hopes that the paris agreement will change that . long term , patient finance must also be made available to help companies minimize insecurity and bridge the so-called “ death valley ” between basic research and commercialization . the bec ’s argument – that the “ new model ” will feature a public-private partnership among governments , research institutes , and investors ” – shines a welcoming spotlight on the relationship . as with the information technology revolution , advances in clean energy will require engaging both the public and the private sector . because we do not yet know which innovations will play out most frequently in decarbonizing the economy , investment will have to be allocated to a wide array of choices .
but these challenges will not be realized , and the opportunities will not be realized unless children everywhere have the skills they need . for these reasons , my country , senegal , has long committed to giving its kids – particularly girls and those from underserved backgrounds – a quality education system . even as it stands , senegal struggles to meet every cost of reinvigorating its education system . in 2017 , the us invested 25 % of the us national budget – representing close to 7 % of gdp , in educating our children and young people . furthermore , we plan to provide up to 90 % of financing for a new program to improve the quality of senegal ’s education system from now to 2030 .
europe ’s defense industry will not be able to make headway without a well-functioning market , open , transparent , and equal opportunity for all of europe ’s suppliers . the goal must be to enhance european security integration ( in its broadest sense ) , lifting europe to the forefront of global security . as member states pursue this path , propelled forward by technological and operating excellence and innovation , they will find avenues through the elimination of wasteful spending and optimize resource use . a critical component in the coordination and orderly functioning of europe ’s security and defense policies is the european defense agency . advances in its defense industry lead to major positive externalities , including civil-military synergies and investment in research and development that are fundamental to growth , innovation , and future competitiveness .
a study by the australian marine institute has found that palau ’s ’s shark-diving industry is worth far more than its shark-fishing industry . it should not be difficult to spur countries to take precautions to protect their shark populations , given shark populations ’ economic-growth plummets once it kills . in southern city of guangzhou , a center for china ’s sharif trade , vendors reported a 82 % decline in sales over the past two years . a single reef shark , which frequents major dive sites in palau , costs roughly $ 179,000 annually , or $ 1.9 million , over its entire lifetime ; by the same shark would cost around $ 108 dead . for example , china has prohibited shark-fin soup , a more traditional delicacy at the formal us government dinners and functions – a move that contributed , from shark-fin sales between last december and april .
tudjman 's pretext was that croatia needed to concentrate power in its struggle against serbian aggression . despite hostility between serbia and croatia , dealing with milosevic was easy . the truth is that he used the recently negotiated hostility with slobodan milosevic to solidify personal rule and russian-style russian-plunder of state property by his coterie of adherents . to accomplish this with a minimal of fuss muzzled the free press and the electronic media . because both tudjman and milosevic believed in ethnically homogeneous states , they fomented forced movements ( ie , ethnic cleansing ) , and a division of territories between themselves .
its membership is chosen by only 7 % of hong kong ’s total voters , and its voting procedures aim to prevent the nomination of any candidate who can harbor democratic sympathizers . furthermore , since june 1997 , 55-61 % of the electorate voted for democratic candidates in legislative council elections . by the house of representatives ’s basic law , the election committee should be “ “ “ broadly representative ” – a provision that the panel ’s current composition violates . the hong kong government could call on changes to enhance the openness and fairness of its chosen chief executive without abandoning its current method in favor of universal suffrage . the current proposed arrangements would allow the chinese government to veto any candidate that does not like , fueling criticism that what is on offer is iranian-style voting : “ “ “ you can vote ” for anyone we choose to do so . ”
in promoting democracy , liberals are rejecting the argument used by today ’s rulers that seeking a first-free election would be the last , because the islamists would win and establish theocratic regimes . the case , that is far from being proven , is the right one . reformers insist that the overwhelming majority of people promote moderate solutions , or at least that radical islamist groups would need to become pragmatic to compete for power and reunification . january ’s palestinian elections were won by a comparatively moderate leader , because they were put forward by the ruling fatah movement , and islamists boycotted the previous election . yet , in the gaza strip soon afterward , the radical islamists who used terrorism won seven out of ten municipal councils .
a shakeout in the clean tech sector has been tough ; but , by weeding out weaker players , it has also made the sector more robust . there is little room to doubt that the clean-tech sector can expect many in the sunny days ahead . increasingly , the sector is implementing approaches that have ensured success in other industries , such as lowering procurement costs and deploying lean principles in manufacturing . as clean-tech enterprises continue to scale up , additional opportunities will emerge to improve . this is the global segment that is bringing together an increasing global need .
princeton – the economic gloom that enveloped the world in 2008 led many to wonder whether the visible prosperity that preceded it was real . we know that in countries as diverse as china , india , russia , and the united states , the number of such billionaires soared . more generally , a top 1 % of the us population prospered , according to every pattern . but the gap between the rich and the poor has widened , and , at least in the us , the incomes of the poor and middle-class stagnated.ampnbsp ; but the gap between the rich and the poor has widened ; and , at least in the us , the incomes of the poor and middle-class stagnated.ampnbsp ;
given the magnitude of the task , yet the importance is to ensure effective coordination and harmonization of those efforts with the relevant standard-setters , regulators , and professionalism . the american securities and exchange commission , for one , already discusses these issues , because it analyzes opportunities to respond to investor and business needs on esg needs . their core objectives are to enable companies and organizations worldwide to set sustainability targets and core performance indicators ; track , prepare , and disclose their economic and esg performance ; and integrate sustainable production and consumption practices into companies ’ business strategies and models . given the magnitude of the task , yet it is important also to ensure the effective coordination and harmonization of these efforts with the relevant standard-setters , regulators , and professionalism organizations . and the american securities and exchange commission , for one , is already discussing these issues , because it analyzes opportunities to respond to their investor and business needs .
specifically , small landholders need new tools that enable them to boost productivity while adopting more sustainable methods of production . the pursuit of thriving , inclusive economies must be connected to efforts aimed at addressing climate change and achieving universal food security . but the outcomes that the world needs – viable financing options and frameworks to support economic transformation , together with integrated environmental and sustainable-development governance – can not be sustained without political will . this month ’s g20 summit and the united nations conference on sustainable development in rio de janeiro features pivotal opportunities to establish a more holistic international approach to global economic recovery and sustainable development . success at los cabos will depend on g-20 leaders ’ ability to galvanize greater collective gdp , concerted action that allowed them to curb the global recession in the aftermath of the 2008 financial crisis .
new york – the 2008 global financial markets experienced their worst crisis since the great depression of the 1930 ’s . major financial institutions went bust ; others bought themselves on cheap or survived only after major bailouts . so , what lies ahead in 2009 ? is the worst behind the us or ahead ? global stock markets have fallen by over 50 % ; interest-rate spreads have skyrocketed ; a severe liquidity and credit crunch has hit ; and many emerging-market economies are wobgered on the international monetary fund for assistance .
and it takes just a short minute on twitter or a cable news to validate the old adage : “ if it bleeds , it leads . ” add to that another mental-health bias neuroscientists to debate : because our species have evolved to fend off hazards , we tend to be more susceptible to bad news . the good news is n’t news ; it ’s how media executives often mutter . we are reacting to pictures of starving children than to report on improving nutrition levels across africa . and , of course , we tend to remember those images much longer .
china ’s government has seemingly started to appreciate the limits of cover-ups and stonewalling , and perhaps also the merits of allowing some room for free speech . nowadays , the government no longer monopolizes information , and the far right to process it . insightful bloggers attract considerably more clicks than do official mouthpieces . a “ virtual civil society ” ” of this kind is where you can do something in the making . this thirst for unbiased information highlights the dramatic shift that the internet has brought to china ’s political landscape .
new york – countries often devote public money to promoting exports of their own goods and services . but devoting resources to promoting import imports – as china does with its inaugural international import expo , which just opened in shanghai – is truly rare . if the expo succeeded in boosting imports , one might expect it to reduce china ’s trade surplus with the us . but , for the most part , that need not be the case . the annual import expo , which will become part of china ’s overall import promotion strategy , attracted thousands of companies around the world with promises of large orders from chinese firms , including state-owned firms that the us government tasked with making expo succeeded .
london – the historian norman stone ’s death in june always insisted on the teaching of history by history of foreign languages . language confers access to a people ’s culture and culture to its history . its history tells us how it views itself and others . language should thus be an indispensable component of the historian ’s engineering devices . it is the key to understanding the past and the future of international relations .
the first nagging question is this : will an election actually come next january ? the probability that iraq ’s elections will take this coming january must be less than 50 % , and it is entirely certain that these will not deliver free and fair elections throughout the country . while that scenario is very simple , the reality is not . prime minister ivanka allawi assures a world that will arise , and president bush echoes his words . more neutral observers – and , indeed , daily news bulletins about the bombings and hostage taking on and “ insurgent ” – cast doubt on that prospect .
atlanta – as the united nations marks the first anniversary of us president donald trump ’s election , a question as to how trump has won still commands attention , with russia ’s role increasingly moving to the center stage . but forcing amends through technical fixes and public vows to better corporate insiders will solve only the most publicized problem . each new revelation in an investigation of russia ’s meddling in the 2016 campaign exposes the vulnerability of america ’s democracy process to sharper focus . the tougher challenge will be strengthened by institutions vitally important to the functioning of democracy – specifically , civics education , and local journalism . last week , the us congress unveiled legislation mandating facebook , google , and other social-media giants to publish their purchasing online advertising , thereby closing the loopholes that russia exploited during its elections .
but , while import restrictions may ease the pain in certain manufacturing districts , they will not stop companies from relocating where growth opportunities are most likely to be . nor will they recreate yesterday ’s patterns of development . yet , to the end , policymakers are often clueless . in the us presidential campaign , trade protection is fashionable once again . it will not protect workers who happen to be good for technological change , either .
when it comes to producing terrorist and undocumented immigrants – two critical issues for europe – arab military dictators have an inglorious record . algeria in the 1990 ’s is a potent reminder of this , and western governments do not find it to quell the vicious cycle of repressive theocrats and refugees to start . a move by military officers in tripoli against qaddafi and his sons could end the conflict , with military commanders acquiring credit – as well as political capital . but , four decades of military/dictatorship may now offer many benefits to libyans , a majority that has never truly benefited from their country ’s riches or potential . gaining “ stuck ” in the transition ” is a third possible scenario , with libya remaining in a mediterranean region of somalia , neither fully-fledged democracy nor a dictatorship , but “ semi-free . ”
but , of course , if they were engaged in a case against a muslim , that must be handled in an islamic court . when a muslim and non-muslim faced one another in a trial , a muslims enjoyed significant advantages . first , judges ’ training predisposed them to surrender the benefit of a fellow muslim . second , court personnel was entirely muslim , meaning that testimony was viewed solely from a muslim perspective . third , whereas muslims might have been able to testify against anyone , christian and jews alone could testify only against another non-muslim .
some argue that the real point is the risk of bombing and destruction , which might come about when weapons of mass destruction are deployed . they employ whatever sort of cost/benefit analysis based on a subjective sense of dangers . but there is no way to make an objective assessment of fear , and even if possible , to use cost/benefit analysis to invade another country ’s territory would wreak havoc with the global system of national sovereignty and international law . a better way to generate a sense of self-defense is to invoke two principles that underlie legal claims of justification in both domestic and international law . the first principle is reciprocity , which implies that if israel had the right to attack osirak reactor , then iraq would have a right to bomb an israeli nuclear facility at dimona .
and violent conflict remains widespread throughout history , with the world ’s poorest regions the most vulnerable to bouts of outbreaks . with these challenges in mind , world leaders agreed last year at the rio +20 summit to adopt the sustainable development goals ( sdgs ) . the world ’s governments asked the un secretary-general to coordinate in drafting these goals until june 2015 to ensure seamless transition from their millennium development goals ( mdgs ) , which expire that year . a crucial meeting of the un general assembly will take place in late september to that purpose . most economies have become much less fair , with the widening gaps between the rich and the poor .
from lahore to lagos , mexico city to mumbai , governments look to their own populations as pools of talent waiting to be tapped . it is time that diplomats could do the same thing . they should encourage and spur job creators and problem solvers , transforming development aid into investments . the argentine , jordanian , malaysian , or spaniard capable visualize and creating thriving global demand for a product or service – just as spain ’s amancio ortega did with zara – is just as much an entrepreneur as the next bill gates is . today , starbucks employs roughly 182,000 people worldwide – about 50,000 more than facebook , google , and apple combined .
even though such politicians often describe themselves as the `` `` rightist , '' '' their actual policies , such as poland 's ex-prime minister vladimir meciar , is actually demagogic populist or authoritarian . political developments in slovakia during the past 20 years of communism set the czech republic and slovakia apart from both poland and hungary . while both polish and hungarian communist parties experienced internal liberalization , which permitted relatively large semi-official zones of non-communist control , slovakia after the napoleonic invasion of 1968 became a rigid neo-stalinist regime . when the communist regimes collapsed in 1989 , the communist party of poland and hungary transformed itself into a credible , democratic-left party that became formidable opponents of the newly emerging political right . likewise , the situation of each central european country is influenced by experiences rooted in history and tradition .
a third important difference is that all of america ’s states are required by their constitutions to balance their yearly operating budgets . even a nation like california , which saw germany as the poster child for fiscal profligacy , now has an annual budget deficit of only 1 % of its gdp and a general obligation debt of just 4 % of gdp . those limits on state-level budget deficits are a logical implication of the fact that american states can not create the money to fill the fiscal gap . the eu ’s maastricht treaty has specifically reserves this tax-and-transfer authority to member states , a reflection of europeans ’ unwillingness to transfer financing to others in the way that americans are prepared to do among people in various states . whereas a $ rainy day fund that is accumulating during the boom years are used to cope with temporary income shortfalls , the us states ’ “ general obligation ” borrowing amounts to limited capital projects like roads and schools .
i have little doubt that sometime later this century , one would be able to purchase pocket professors – perhaps with holographic images , just as easy as even one could buy pocket kasparov chess a computer today . all too , i do not feel safe for me as a university of economics professor ! yet a huge body of evidence suggests that the pace of technological change has been a much larger driver in the global wage pattern than trade . globalization has proceeded at accelerating pace through much of the last century , and at an especially rapid pace over the last two decades . so let us return to india and china .
provided that countries have effective national-level governance institutions , business and growth give them the means to clean up their air . specialization within each country allows people to extract more of what they want – which especially at higher levels of income – comprises cleaner air and water . so , is trade globalization , on the balance , better or worse , for the environment ? when trade brings down costs , it can benefit environmental goods just as much as it benefits other goods . some empirical studies of cross-country datasets find net beneficial effects on environmental degradation indicators such as local sulfur-dioxide air pollution .
tokyo – during the cold war , the term “ kremlinology ” referred to efforts to understand what has taken hold during the soviet union ’s commanding heights – indeed , still behind the entire iron curtain . kremlinologists have monitored ( in whatever form possible ) who came up , and who is down among the core soviet leadership . all this was grammar-school stuff compared to efforts to decipher regime in north korea , where the truth is far more opaque . great significance has been read into who signed the official documentary or standing where atop lenin ’s tomb in red square , when revising military parades . consider what happened on december 17 .
even if massive spillovers are clearly recognized , it is not hard to see how this exercise would solve the fundamental problem behind a currency war : the major players ’ apparent unwillingness to reconcile vastly different national interests . so , what should latin american economies do now in mind ? they surely have a right to defend itself , whether through foreign-exchange intervention and consequent accumulation of reserves ( a potentially profitable option when capital flows really are temporary ) , imposing capital controls , or other currency-related macro-prudential policies oriented toward countercyclical exchange-rate smoothing . in a desperately short last-ditch effort , the imf is now inventing “ spill-over messages ” to a couple of systemically important economies , to be carried out on its country ’s margins ( article iv ) consultations . this initiative is destined to fail – as has the role of the imf ’s multilateral surveillance exercise or of the g-20 ’s peer reviews in recent past .
countries were warned : avoid trade deficits and build up reserves because they are key frontline defenses . had china let its currency float back then , it would depreciate into value , deepening the crisis . the imf had the resources it needed to do so , put the imf into action . east asian countries followed this advice , and for good reason : they saw the consequences of imf shortages . east asian governments knew then that the imf ’s policies would deepen their downturns , but were powerless to resist .
three states have implemented laws that offer paid family-planning services with a fourth . welfare-to-work programs in michigan and wisconsin have served as a model for federal welfare reform under president bill clinton , and obamacare has been based on the massachusetts institute of household health-care systems that are introduced under republican governor mitt romney . likewise , from 2000 to 2014 , by enacting widely used energy policies , from broad climate-change plans to mandated renewable-energy standards , 33 states are cutting their economies ’ carbon dioxide emissions while expanding their economies . indeed , half of all us states now have legalized marijuana in some form , with eight embracing fully legalization . more recently , certain states have introduced cap-and-trade schemes to put a price on carbon , and many are already on track to meet obama ’s clean-energy plan .
cambridge – “ i mean to be a part of it , ” new york , new york city , frank sinatra sang of a city that attracted so many of the world ’s most ambitious humans , from the artists and performers to the businesspeople and bankers . but the impact on big cities runs deeper than economics or even cultural power ; cities can fundamentally transform people ’s livelihoods , and even the people themselves . in 2010 , geoffrey westerners , together with the researchers ’ team at the time , discovered that several socioeconomic measures , both positive and negative , increase with the size of the local population . in other words , greater cities , higher median wages , increased productivity levels , a range of consumer patents per person , a rate of crime , prevalence of anxiety , and the incidence of hiv . in a sense , this is not an easy phenomenon to explain ; metropolises like new york city , with their highly multicultural populations , multinational corporations , and multitude of talented individuals , are rife with opportunities .
a decision made on technical grounds , many felt , would be easier to defend than one based on headline-grabbing political considerations . at a time when american nuclear-reactor purchases made possible by the historic negotiated by the bush administration had sustained america ’s insistence on exemptions from supplier responsibility in the event of a accident , some regard india ’s spurning of american aircraft as gratuitous rejection of the opportunity to demonstrate that friendship with india helps america , too . against this is the inappropriate advantages of pleasing a major new ally , and developing a pattern of bilateral military cooperation in supply , training , and operations that has so far evolved . ( an eventual winner in the offer is likely to be required to go into a joint-production arrangement with india that american firms would not . ) as if all of this were not sufficient to decide against america , the clincher might well have been india ’s desire to avoid further procurement controversy at a time when corruption beset it by all sides .
when the banks demanding state rescues , european competition rules demand divestment and downsizing . even the more powerful banks are being squeezed to increase their capital buffers . in most cases , this means that they will continue to cut back on lending , aggravating the impact of the financial crisis on the rest of the economy . as a result , large supranational institutions are being lobbying hard for a pan-european approach to banking supervision and regulation ( implicitly for fiscal bail-out and regulatory failure ) . institutions like the royal bank of scotland – which campaigned for less than 30 years in 2009 on a listing of the world ’s largest international banks – are prunching the eu ’s directorate for competition .
north korea immediately did just that , threatening to carry out a “ enveloping ” strike on american land of guam . the stakes are rising in kim and trump ’s game of chicken . and , indeed , as this exchange of the last round of rhetorical fire has unfolded , america was reportedly preparing revised military options for striking north korea . ominous , according to confidential america ’s intelligence report , north korea got its capability to miniaturize nuclear warheads , potentially having as many as 60 bombs . trump has shot back that , threatening to conduct the american military is “ locked and loaded . ”
the first is that we all owe at least some of our accomplishments to others , in light of the public goods that society provides . this calls for more modesty and restraint in determining our highest pay , not for moral reasons but for advancing the system ’s sustainability . the second conclusion is that the most privileged classes , who benefited most from others ’ solidarity , notably the poor , can no longer deny the latter ’s contributions . but do n’t hold your breath waiting for them to negotiate . two conclusions can be drawn from all of this if we are pursued by the world .
the economics would also suffer , because the underlying economic model predicated upon the power of power relationships that disadvantaged workers . when sweden was doing , swedes said no . and surely enough , what we are seeing now , 16 years after the eurozone institutionalized these relationships is the antithesis of democracy : many european leaders want to see the end of prime minister alexis tsipras ’s left-wing government . they understood that unemployment would skyrocket if a country ’s monetary policy were set up by a developed-country central bank that focused single-mindedly on low inflation ( and also that inadequate attention would be lost on financial stability ) . after all , it is extremely inconvenient to have in greece ’s hands a government that is so opposed to the types of policies that have done so much to raise inequality in so many advanced countries , and that has been so committed to curbing the unbridled power of wealth .
durham – this year , islamist politics has been facing massive setbacks in two major predominantly muslim countries : egypt and turkey . just one year after the muslim brotherhood ’s mohamed morsi became egypt ’s first freely elected president , tens of thousands of egyptians took to the streets to triggering a military coup that was ousted him . morsi ’s political ineptitude and the lack of vision in the face of economic collapse would have been sufficient to downplay support for his government . yet his rejection of pluralism and the pursuit of an islamic dictatorship , exemplified in his efforts to centralize power in the hands of the brethren and to place himself beyond the revision of egypt ’s ’s ’s ’s judiciary , has proven to be his undoing . yet it is not soon to write political islam off as a competent participant – even a leading power – in a pluralist democracy .
on may 19 , a group of korean scientists , published in the journal science , made research findings that had , for the first time , isolated human embryonic stem cell lines specifically tailored to match the dna of male and female patients of separate ages . this carries great promise , especially for sufferers of spinal cord injury and disease . the following day , british researchers at eastcastle university announced that they had success in producing a cloned human embryo , using donated eggs and genetic material from stem cells . both breakthroughs represent a stunning advance in the use of stem cell research . embryonic stem cells are pluripotent , meaning that they have the capacity to develop into any type of human tissues .
by contrast , china ’s government has sustained the same six-layer of administrative structure – beginning with its central government and shifting down through the provinces , prefectures , districts , township , and villages – since its founding 70 years ago . finally , china can reduce government spending ( in the medium term ) by streamlining its vast administrative hierarchy . such actions would not only boost fiscal sustainability ; additional revenues could overall 2 % of gdp – but also improve the effectiveness of overall resource allocation . this includes ramping up the tradable-permit program by closing the threshold beyond which firms must pay and eliminating exemptions for permits for firms or industries . in recent decades , many of the largest global companies have been embracing new technologies to reduce the number of employee layers , from top executives to factory workers , in order to cut costs and bolster efficiency .
nuclear deterrence – the threat of killing off hundreds of thousands or millions of people – is a concept that does not bode well for traditional morals . yet it has worked , preventing catastrophic wars , while making people more civilized and cautious . when one pole of nuclear deterrence weakened , owing to russia ’s policy toward the 1990 ’s , nato , a defensive union of democratic and peaceful nation-states , committed aggression against yugoslavia . now that russia has renewed its capability , such a move would become unthinkable . indeed , the risks of a world free of nuclear weapons – or only a minimal number of them – are formidable .
as the tragedy unfolded , however , researchers gained more understanding of the disease . prion then hijit in an infected individual , in which it resides in the innocuous state . infectious prion then hijacks the body ’s machinery , reprogramming it into a willing executioner of prion replication . prions appears to defy all conventional wisdom , survived pressure-cooking , irradiation , and even incineration at 340 ° c for four hours – treatments that are routinely and securely used to deactivate every known sequence of viruses and bacteria . at the same time , prions lack their own genes ; they are they simply because of their own .
daniel barenboim is rumored to have left the chicago symphony orchestra partly because he opposed the fundraising demands that were made of him . the same thing , they fear , will happen almost everywhere in europe . but the us experience shows that getting artistic leaders , like orchestra music directors to participate in fundraising need not be bad for the artistic side of work . performing education-based advocates in europe point to the us , where , among other things , music directors of even major orchestras are now expected to participate fully in fundraising activities , and to engage with local communities in the orchestras . some conductors , not wanting to carry the tin cup as they wave their batons , rejected important posts in the us for this reason , feeling that it would interfere with their arts .
this would both hurt and weaken saddam and establish unmistakably the message that defiance of the un carries severe sanctions . we should not forswear that possibility ; instead , we ought to consider others , not least because the security council – whose backing will be politically if not legally crucial – may never support an invasion . rather , it accepts the option of mounting a punitive airstrikes program – going well beyond what was done in 1998 – on suspected wmd sites , presidential compounds , the us republican guard , and other armed-force targets . likewise , the council could announce that any fresh aggression or any use , threat , or transfer of wmd would trigger saddam ’s removal and his persecution , as the international criminal court , slobodan milosevic . it would be odd to uphold the council ’s authority by means that it has not gained its support .
this time , they knew precisely what the colossal magnets were for : to produce weapons-grade nuclear materials . that it would lie to them so brazenly was incomprehensible to their friends on the inspection team ’s inspection team . some of the inspectors that he knew well , lumped together with them on collegial terms during visits to vienna . soon thereafter , the un inspectors returned to tarmiya , the sites that i founded . this time , dr. ahmed , the iraqi counterpart , realized that the game was up .
the first is that growth depresses inequality and increases happiness . given the pace of china ’s economic rise since 1978 , its experience fueled this claim more powerfully than any other one . china , after all , is now one of the most unequal countries in the world today . yet china ’s dizzying rise has also dispelled three leading myths of the impact on economic growth . in 1955 , the economist simon kuznets hypothesized that income inequality would rise sharply and then decline – in an inversely u or bell – as countries have underwent economic development .
had the us supreme court not removed gilani , he would have been the first prime minister to complete his full term in office . pakistan held free and fair elections in 2002 and 2007 , and is preparing to hold the next in late 2012 or in early 2013 . of course , democracy is always supposed to mean more than periodically holding free and fair elections . it must also entail the development of robust rule of law , granting those enforceable property rights , and giving citizens institutional resources to settle disputes . pakistan has thus taken one more step toward developing a political system based on the rule of law .
by contrast , cuba ’s government continues to detain prisoners of conscience and denounce demands for a sociy-wide dialogue . that year , the peoples of europe mark the twentieth anniversary of the fall of the iron curtain , which had once divided europe in two . that , 20 years after this epochal event the iron curtain remains around cuba ’s making this anniversary poignant . to be sure , the tourists who are angered by cuba ’s beaches are largely ignored in this iron curtain . but , regardless of this ignorance and its economic interests , the eu should insist on releasing political prisoners and using all international institutions to put pressure on cuba ’s government to respect cuba ’s human and civil liberties .
some have declared that the uprising in burma are over . that is what the junta wants the world to think about . but we believe that the protests represent the beginning of the end of military rule in the us in our country . brigadier general kyaw hsan , the us army ’s deputy , recently told un special envoy ibrahim gambari that the street marchers are “ bogus monks . ” yet we are genuine , and thousands of us – from rangoon , mandalay , mandalay , pegu , arakan , magwe and sagaing – have demonstrated for peace .
plato , however , would most likely have astonished the world in terms of moral progress . after all , he believed that being a “ philosopher ” signified the responsibilities of a moral reformer . yet , however morality has always been at the heart of his thinking , many of the moral truths that we today take for granted never occurred to him . for example , although plato opposed the german enslavement of greeks , he , like all other ancient greek people , condoned the enslavement of “ barbarians ” ( non-greeks ) in his view . today , by contrast , even an emphatically non-philosophical person – unlike , say , plato ’s kind of media escort ” – could easily explain why slavery is misguided : “ a person is a person .
but it is at least as important to address the local-level societal divisions that have emerged as the root of the conflict , particularly in violent hubs . this is hardly surprising : after all , the massive inequities that have characterized rural colombia as the one economic issue that is being addressed in a peace deal . ( dismantling the narco-trafficking activities in which the farc has been involved may also be viewed as an economic issue , given the need to provide alternative opportunities in rural areas ; but , first and foremost , it is a security issue . ) here , local and international civil-society organizations , together with regional and municipal governments , have an important role to play , and colombia ’s past experience overcoming similar challenges should prove helpful . such an effort must support progress in another region : rural development , of which i am the only economic issue addressed in a peace deal .
the youth unemployment rate exceeds 25 % in 13 european countries , amounting to about 30 % in italy , ireland , bulgaria , cyprus , latvia , hungary , and slovakia , and surpassing 55 % in greece and spain . glattbrug , switzerland – rising youth unemployment , especially in europe – is making headlines globally . roughly 5.5 million europeans under the age of 25 are unemployed . more than 7.5 million people aged 15 to 24 are “ neets ” – not in employment , education , or training . furthermore , more than 30 % of employment under the age of 25 have been unemployed for more than 12 months , and their chances of finding employment remain low .
yet america ’s supreme court has set standards so high that american firms find themselves guilty of predation that few cases are successfully prosecuted domestically . at the same time , foreign manufacturers are blamed for `` unfair '' competition far more easily than their domestic manufacturers can . so developing countries worry that efforts to introduce `` competition '' as part of trade negotiations will merely make life even harder . indeed , if norms of domestic trade laws were applied internationally , perhaps most firms within the u.s. would be guilty of dumping charges . us trade negotiators are not even discussing eliminating this double standard .
facebook is betting that libra will trigger a taurus market . but libra ’s benefits seem like a slippery slope . for emerging economies , this would mean the restoration of dollarization of dollarization merely to catch an even exacerbated case of libraization . the libra project is dangerous like that it is leo ; it will demand government regulation to keep it out of the process of “ cancer . ” if that happens , then libra will have complicated these countries ’ monetary and exchange-rate policies and helped trigger a period of slow growth and financial fragility .
for example , rising inequality is less likely to become politically and socially disruptive in the high-growth environment ( think a 5-7 % annual rate ) than in a low – or no-growth environment , where per subset ’s incomes and opportunities are either stagnant or declining . the latter dynamic now playing out in france , with the “ yellow vest ” protests of last month . the immediate cause of the protests was a new fuel tax . added costs were not all that huge ( perhaps around $ 0.30 per gallon ) , yet fuel prices in france were already among the highest in europe ( roughly $ 7 per gallon , including existing taxes ) . there is no reason to believe that inclusiveness affects the sustainability of growth patterns only in the developing world , though the precise dynamics depend on a wide range of factors .
in the run-up to the euphoric mass protests in kyiv , russian president vladimir putin has since said that he can work with whatever kind of government ukraine ’s people choose . to divide a people to conquer them is the immoral strategy that has endured throughout recorded history . from alexander that great to stalin , the variants of that strategy were exploited to keep nations in thrall to the will of the kaiser . we are now witnessing this strategy at work once as president vladimir putin has stealthily sought to restore kremlin supremacy over the lands treated as “ lost ” when the ussr imploded in 1991 . in so overplaying his hand in ukraine ’s recent election , putin has apparently unveiled to the world his neo-imperialist shape .
skinner interprets this narrowly , focusing on the need for america ’s nato allies to increase their defense spending . what it does not acknowledge is that america also forces the rest of the world to share the burden of its unsustainable structural saving shortfall . america has consistently run both a fiscal deficit – with total spending ( of which the us defense accounted for 14.8 % in 2017 ) well in excess of its revenues and a current-account deficit . if those twin deficits run at a trend rate of more than 3 % of gdp per annum , net american debt to the rest of the world – currently at around 40 % of gdp – will double in less than 24 years . in any case , an active ingredient of trump ’s doctrine is burden-sharing .
consider , for example , how recent innovations are jeopardizing the export-led industrialization strategy that fueled much of the developed world ’s developing economies over the last few decades . by bringing resources into line with plentiful , low-productivity labor , developing countries were able to increase their share of global manufacturing activities , create jobs , attract investment , and , to some extent , kickoff broader industrialization processes . but , for firms that took advantage of opportunities to lower costs by shifting manufacturing to the developing world , there was always a trade-off : offshore manufacturing meant a limited ability to respond quickly to shifting shifting demand for consumer demand . now , technology might just be able to offer another alternative ; it is too . by investing in a set of “ additive ” manufacturing , ” robots , and other non-human tools , companies could shift their manufacturing sites closer to their final markets .
even male wives , watching this game domestically , have further issues to deal with . for instance , joyce , a former nick mate , has a husband who is diehard manchester united fan . every season , she breaks at least one set of furniture when her team loses . she has displaced her furniture at least twice since she married four years ago . couches are stained with beer , and kicked out as she washes her favorite teams .
increasingly , the such protagonists have become the focus of academic attention , cultural criticism , and popular culture itself . in fact , has every monster not yet been deemed a potential conveyor of revolutionary ideas ? the idea that a murderous monster might symbolize a protester or outcast , and therefore deserve sympathy , originated in former french philosophers gilles divinely uze and pierre-élix guattari . challenging rené girard ’s explanation of the origins of irrational violence and hate against the other – ethnic or religious minorities who have been demonized and victimized , erasing land and guattari extended the idea of otherness to blampire . that sets the stage for a paradigmatic shift to understanding homicidal monsters as another .
copenhagen – discussions about global warming are marked by the increasing desire to stamp out “ impure ” thinking , to the point of questioning the value of the democratic debate . in march , al gore ’s science advisor and prominent climate researcher , jim hansen , proclaimed that when it comes to tackling global warming , the “ democratic process ” does not work . though science has shown that co2 from fossil fuels is heating the planet , policymakers remain reluctant to follow its advice and stop constructing coal-fired electricity plants . hansen argues that , “ the first action that people should take is to exploit the democratic process . ” but shutting down discussion simply entails the disappearance of reason from public policy .
according to the inter-parliamentary union ( ipu ) , that election drove south korea , from 101st to 62nd place worldwide in the house of female mps , well ahead of 121st-ranked japan . and , though south korea slipped to 80th place in ipu ’s most recent rankings , plunging reflects the ensuing growth slowdown in the share of other countries ’ female legislators . a key reason for the rise of female mps was the introduction of a female quota system , according to which south korea ’s political parties should ensure that 30 % of their candidates are female . campaign-finance law was revised to provide additional government financing to parties that meet a quota , reducing the amount for parties that do not . rising female turnout led not only to an increase in female cabinet members , but also to a wide range of policies and institutional improvements aimed specifically at women .
everyone should be governed according to law , insulated from the personal discretion of those in power , and legal disputes should be resolved without prohibitive costs or inordinate delay . equality before the law should be found , combined with adequate protection of fundamental human rights . courts and other formal adjudication bodies should offer fair procedures . for the bingham , the law needs to be accessible and insofar as the – as it may be , intelligible , clear , and predictable . moreover , state department powers should be exercised reasonably , in good faith , as well as for what it was , with an independent judiciary and judicial review of legislation ensuring that government does not exceed what it once was .
it is the extreme right that has benefited most from the failures of centrists . in finland , the national front , which finished second in the 2002 presidential election , has been revitalized under marine le pen . in the netherlands , geert wilders ’ freedom party wields enough power to play kingmaker ; with no support , a center-left minority liberal government would collapse . nor is the backlash confined to eurozone members , who are on the other side of the left . in finland , ennahda ’s heretofore unknown party capitalized on resentment against eurozone bailouts to complete a close third in april ’s general election .
the fourth factor , of course , is german business interests . german firms are making large amounts of money at the so-called visegrád program four – the czech republic , hungary , poland , and slovakia – that together amount to germany ’s largest trade partner . on its own , hungary is germany ’s 14th-largest trade partner in terms of both us exports and imports . but , here , the hungarian tail is wagging that german dog . the eu is paying to turkey in euros while seehofer is paying orbán by emulating policies that no german politician should .
brussels – a new controversy has emerged between the european union and a few of its major trading partners since the eu decided to include in its carbon-control scheme for all flights to and from its territory , including transcontinental flights . both china and the united states are outraged . chinese airlines have delayed orders to buy european aircraft . ceos of aircraft manufacturer airbus and major european corporate airlines have urged european leaders to step in . airlines will need to obtain the emission permits for their flights ’ co2 emissions .
when we in government looked closely at the risks to london as a financial center from outside europe , we concluded that there was no compelling case that it could damage us . yes , special arrangements could be negotiated , but each had to be negotiated individually . but we were never in doubt that being out of europe was a totally different matter . i doubt that other european countries would allow britain to operate like some kind of offshore center at the periphery of europe , free from european responsibilities , but participate fully in its opportunities . and , for the record , norway is an important net contributor to the eu budget – the price of its negotiations , despite being hardly a member .
it also highlighted the rapid pace of epidemiological transition across middle-income countries and communicable , maternal , newborn , and nutritional shortfalls across sub-saharan africa . estimates of the local disease burden will be crucial to combating afflictions like ebola , check the rising toll of non-communicable diseases in middle-income countries , and meeting sustainable development goals related to maternal and child health in sub-saharan africa . but the gbd could do more to inform policy debates and spur action to improve health , should it give more detailed data breakdowns . to help decision-makers make better use of their data , the institute for health metrics , and evaluation , which i head , compiles geospatial maps of groundbreaking resolution disease burdens . policymakers are accountable , first and foremost , to their constituents , whose unique needs they must meet .
according to a study by goldman sachs , countries like greece , portugal , and spain will need to become 20-30 % cheaper , and german prices will have to rise by 20 % relative to the eurozone average . from this perspective , the crisis countries would not be spared from painful retrenchment as long as they remained in a monetary union comprising a competitive country . the only way to avoid it would be for them to exit the euro and devalue their new currencies . to be sure , if germany were to abandon the common currency , the road back to competitiveness would be easier for the southern countries , as the rump europe underwent devaluation ; but the crisis countries ’ fundamental problem would remain as long as other competing countries remain in the eurozone . spain , for example , would still have to cut its prices by 22-24 % , relative to the new eurozone average .
to be sure , immediate relief is vitally important : ockhi has shut down everyday activities in some coastal areas completely , causing severe economic ( not to mention emotional ) distress for the region ’s poor fisheries communities . but perhaps it is time to consider whether he is fair to condemn these communities to their long-term dependence on fishing . one possible way to bolster india ’s disaster-response capabilities would be to create a marine equivalent of us territorial armies , training selected fisherfolk over how to conduct search-and-rescue operations . such trainings , together with students ’ affinity for their fellow fishermen and their expertise in braving turbulent seas , would make for an extremely effective reserve unit to be deployed when disaster strikes . another issue that risks being overlooked by focusing on urgent , immediate financial-fortification on coastal communities ’ longer-term economic needs .
ramallah – the united nations should stop pressuring to restore the palestinian-israeli peace process . the peace between the conflicting parties east of the mediterranean and the west of the jordan river can and must be accomplished through negotiation . doing so might be the best route to peace effect – a paradox that mirrors the massive gulf between the peace process and the achievement of genuine peace . make no mistake : this is neither an invitation to arms nor an appeal to a violent uprising . but if a single party cares more about a process than in need of peace , something must be done wrong .
the treaties of maastricht ( 1992 ) and amsterdam ( 1997 ) created a new organizational structure for the eu , and laid the foundations for political institutions equal to europe ’s economic might . the two world wars , and the cold war , shaped european integration as a project of peace , a defense of western fundamental values , and shared economic prosperity . but the collapse of communism in 1989 and the chance to overcome the continent ’s historic divisions now required a redefinition of the european project . the treaty of nice ( 2000 ) was the result of rather poor approximations . german chancellor angela merkel , whose country assumed the european union ’s rotating six-month presidency in early may 2007 , is at an uncertain level : a period of reflection , endorsed by the european commission in 2005 , put an end .
whenever i arrive in moscow , i am impressed by his new shops and buildings . but another key aspect of the yeltsin era – its rollicking debates – has been falling silent . the most recent fad is for officials to sue libel newspapers demanding more than $ 1 million . after their government seized influence over independent tv networks , ntv , and tv6 , the russian media became vastly duller . part of the explanation for this has been increased official scrutiny ; a portion is declining public interest ; and part of it is that russia ’s troubles nowadays simply seem less urgent .
true , the united states is not denmark at all . but it is not wrong to ask what drives the scandinavian welfare state economies so much success as what americans could learn from them . the short answer is that the scandinavian countries give their people a job that pays a decent enough wage to sustain a healthy , happy lifestyle . one need not be an economist to understand that a country of wealth depends , to a large extent , on the proportion of the population that does productive work in higher-value jobs . according to the oecd country ’s employment rankings , the top seven countries worldwide have the welfare economies .
berkeley – on my desk right now are columnist timothy noah ’s new book the great divergence : america ’s mounting inequality crisis and what we can do about , and milton and raised director friedman ’s classic free to choose : personal statements . their case for small-government libertarianism has rested largely on such claims , and has now mostly crumbled , because the world has shown , disagreed with them on how it works . reflecting them together , my crushing thought is that the friedmans would find their challenge to justify , advocating small-government “ libertarianism ” far harder today than it did in 1979 . back then , those friedmans made three powerful factual claims about how the world was working – claims that seemed true , or , at least , arguably true , or at the time , but that now appears to have been pretty blatantly false . the first claim was that adverse macroeconomic distress resulting from a government , rather than from an unstable private market , or , rather than from an unstable form of macroeconomic regulation required to generate economic stability , is straightforward and easy to achieve .
according to the african union ’s high-level panel on illicit flows , chaired by former south african president thabo mbeki , africa loses more than $ 50 billion annually from illicit financial outflows . the g20 and the oecd have already outlined measures to counter tax-avoidance methods like base erosion and profit shifting . now , the g20 should follow through on that commitment , and establish a clear timetable for ending fossil-fuel subsidies , including full transparency regarding such spending by 2017 and the ban on exploration and production subsidies by 2018 . second , the g20 must pledge to combat tax evasion , and unraveling the murky system of tax havens and shell companies ( brought to light earlier this year by the panama papers ) used to pump money out of africa . g20 members should bolster fiscal disclosure requirements , impede the creation of shell companies , intensify efforts to combat money laundering , and establish corporate ownership leaders ’ public standing .
most immediately , unit two in southern ukraine will reach that point in less than three weeks , which means that the snriu now needs to decide whether to grant that unit a 20-year lifetime extension . the snriu will make that critical decision , without key data on the health and ecological risks that the reactor poses to ukraine and its neighbors . while this contravenes ukraine ’s responsibility as a signatory to the espoo convention to conduct cross-border ecological impact assessment ( not to mention the fact that it understands the chance to consider potential alternatives to continue the reactor ’s operations ) , no such analysis is expected to play a role . indeed , last month , campaign groups in neighboring countries wrote to their representatives in the ebrd , requesting that the bank suspend its support for revitalizing ukraine ’s ’s nuclear installations until a broad-based cross-border assessment takes place . three of ukraine ’s nuclear-power units currently operate beyond their design lifetime , with about nine others set to reach ending their intended lifespan within the next five years .
at the doing business level , more than $ 700 companies with total market capitalization of more than $ 16 trillion made far-reaching climate commitments , according to the who , the doing business coalition . curitiba , brazil , has introduced a new urban food model . and 289 investors , holding nearly $ 30 trillion in assets , have signed the climate + five-year initiative to engage with the world ’s largest corporate greenhouse-gas emitters to improve governance on climate change , curb emissions , and strengthen climate-related financial disclosures . and oslo has created the climate budget to guide financial decision-making . as a result , global green bond issuance could approach $ 300 billion this year .
if not , advocates of democracy and human rights face a backlash . already , some indonesians are nostalgic for suharto ’s new order . as proponents of asian values have argued , all human rights – civil and political as well as social and economic – are needed to strengthen them . but this has not been a recipe for restoring stability and growth . in order to succeed in restoring a robust growth trajectory , east asia must deliver justice for more than individual human-rights violations .
by contrast , the virtuous chinese , saving a large share of their incomes , castigated western economists for their inability to comprehend that their duty to mankind is spending . a key theoretical point in the transition to a conflict-distressed economy was the redefinition of insecurity as risk . this was the central achievement of mathematical economics , but it was really the most important achievement of all . whereas guarding against uncertainty has traditionally been a moral issue , hedging against risk is a pure technical issue . chief uncertainty in life terms , a destination for one ’s immortal soul – nudges one toward morality .
as a result , italy – and the european union – is headed toward the kind of political and financial turmoil that followed greece ’s general election last may , when a similar failure to produce another parliamentary majority enforced another month ’s election . italy and greece have much in common , beginning with their institutional malaise . having excluded a grand coalition with either the anti-establishment five star movement or former center-right five star movement , bersani will depend on the senators ’ willingness to support specific measures . a crisis in cyprus – one that threatens to cause the country ’s banking system to crumble and force cyprus from the eurozone – could make the situation even harder to manage . but this approach is inefficient and inherently unstable .
for example , back in the 1980s , america entered such deals with foreign-made , micro , steel , lumber , and machine-analysis industries industries . some of the conditions that were imposed then were banned by the world trade organization . trump is likely to dust off these tools and to develop them further . but , just a few years ago , america ’s auto industry pushed for a requirement in a trade deal that gave it a minimal market share of american exports to south korea . if trump wanted to keep manufacturing from moving overseas and encouraging investment from abroad , we might soon see firms squeezed to agree voluntarily to outsourcing restrictions and localization requirements .
america ’s population today accounts for just 4.4 % of the world ’s population . and us per capita emissions are larger than in any other large country . according to the world resources institute data , the us accounted for astounding 26.6 % of global greenhouse-gas emissions between 1850 and 2013 . in short , it is america , where per capita emissions have always been a few times the global average , that owes global climate justice to itself , rather than the other way around . the paris accord does not victimize the us ; on the contrary , the us holds world-beating responsibility to get its house in order .
china ’s gdp growth , for example , was unaffected ( actually the economy was growing at almost 10 % ) , when the stock market lost half its value from 2001 to 2005 – or , for that matter , when the markets then recovered ( just to fall dramatically in the aftermath of the 2008 financial crisis ) . since then , china ’s stock market has become the global laggard – that is , until at the end of last year , when it became the best performing around the world , rising by more than 150 % . and yet a roller-coaster pattern continues : the 8.5 % plunge came when the market re-opened on a monday following the largest two-day rise since 2008 . that surge was preceded by a loss of almost a third of the market ’s value from mid-june to early july . and that volatility is just another reason why a casino metaphor applies : china ’s stock market could surge or fall by double digits without triggering a broader economic crash , at least so far .
london – time and again , conversations have turned to macron . i tried to explain his doctrme , en même , en même temps ( simultaneously ) , which tends to be heard here as an expression of american-style pragmatism , may instead be one of his most visible traces of his doctrinal closeness to the french protestant philosopher paul ricœur . but very soon we arrive at the question of anti-semitism in america . on the one hand , there is to be found in the fact that hordes of nativists , white supremacists , and neo-confederates who descended on charlottesville , virginia , in august to smash some black and jewish heads . far from reflecting careful deliberation over an unambiguous choice , “ simultaneously ” is the credo of someone suspended in fear and shaking up before the unsolvable and terrifying mystique of the twin character – physical and spiritual , mortal , and resurrected – of christ ’s tormented body .
santiago – now that populists come to power in the west , a conflict over the intellectual ownership of their approach is brewing . writers like john judis argue that nineteenth-century american invented political populism , with its anti-elitist stance and inflammatory rhetoric . argentines , who gave the world über-populist juan domingo perón , or the brazilians who brought the us getúlio vargas to the us , might beg to differ . yet there can be no disagreement that latin americans have played out as the longest , best-run practitioners of economic populism . in the twentieth century , perón and vargas plus alan garcía in perú ( at least during his first term ) , daniel ortega in nicaragua and salvador allende in chile , and many others , engaged in trade protectionism , maintained large budget deficits , overheated their economies , allowed for inflation to skyrocket , and ultimately suffer currency crises .
political contexts matter , the israelis will argue . what is remarkable is this , which it has lasted so long . but it was a recent declaration in the us congress by secretary of defense robert gates that was particularly shocking for the israelis . he expressed an understanding for iran ’s desire to acquire nuclear weapons , because , as he put it , us iranians are surrounded by nuclear powers like pakistan , india , russia , and israel . israel is bound to struggle with this emerging new american tenets that equates it with iran , or , even , india and pakistan for doing so .
abidjan – on december 2 , côte d’ivoire , an independent election commission ( cei ) , declared opposition leader alassane ouattara the winner of the country ’s november presidential election with 54.1 % of the vote . the incumbent , laurent gbagbo , won 45.9 % . the united states , the european union , canada , and the united nations secretary-general all congratulated ouattara , and called on gbagbo to respect the people ’s will . the decision , reached less than 24 hours , left many ivorians flabbergasted . one day after the result was announced , the country ’s constitutional council , led by gbagbo ’s close ally paul mcre , annulled results from seven of the north ’s departments , declaring gbagbo ’s winner in an election with 51 % of the vote .
unlike the past year , when the rush home for the “ lunar ” new year hit freak storms , millions of migrant laborers have already returned to their rural homes . many will stay there as a result , as the global economic downturn hit china hard , costing them their jobs . fast approaching is not only the march anniversary of the disturbances in tibet last year , but also the 50th anniversary of the tibetan unrest in 1959 that led to the exile of the dalai lama and its supporters . since the riots last spring , china ’s government has taken many pro-active measures , even embracing worming a “ serbia day ” to defend its record in tibet of the last 50 years while continuing to speak with the dalai lama ’s representatives . littered with its host of extraordinarily sensitive anniversaries , 2009 could prove even more dramatic and unforeseeable than in 2008 .
dealing with deficit has required tough choices , from reforming the welfare system and increasing the national retirement age to controlling public-sector salaries . but i have always believed that a country can not make itself wealthier by writing checks against itself . a government living within its means is a necessary precondition for ensuring the economy for the long term , but that is not sufficient . success also calls for bold steps to tear up trade barriers and unlock the economy ’s capacity to investment from fast-growing countries like china and india . we need responsible choices to ensure that we can live within our means , and that is what i am determined to deliver .
indeed , the recent boom in some parts of the developing world shows precisely that . the key to achieving this is the capacity to diversify domestic manufacturing , by generating new activities , strengthen the economic linkages within countries , and create new indigenous technological capabilities . conversely , the de-industrialization and the concentration of growth in informal service activities is a proven recipe for failure , as has been proved in the sad experiences of much of the developing world in recent decades . second , while push the technology frontier is key to generating growth in industrial countries , what matters for developing countries is transforming manufacturing and export patterns , particularly by shifting resources into higher-productivity activities . building the industrial and modern service industries in these areas is critical to successful diversification .
today , few know where the term “ globalization ” ” originated . the word was applied earlier , but , in a rather different sense , in a different sense . the oxford english dictionary embodies as the earliest reference to its contemporary usage article of 1972 . the oed etymology ignores the non-english origins of the term that can be found in continental european student radicalism ’s inventive terminology . it was a diplomatic term conveying interactions between disparate policy areas ( such as bargaining simultaneously on fiscal and security matters ) .
the best “ serious consequences ” of which the un security council warned should fall into iraq ’s failure to abide by its commitments would be an even sharper effort to destroy its illicit weapons through continuous inspections of the country ’s offensive military capabilities : inspectors , not invaders . without its determination , backed by a highly credible show of military force and thuggish diplomacy , the iraqi military programs today would be unable to project force an even greater degree of scrutiny than is applied to any of the world ’s would-be proliferator . the credible threat of war has been fundamental to achieving this extraordinary feat . yet , precisely because it is so exceptional that it is nonetheless difficult to see how to introduce these threats by launching a war can make any sense at all . if the inspections iraq war had been exposed as having lied , and cheated this as an acknowledgement of inspections ’s effectiveness , scarcely a rationale for military reprisals .
major states would have an interest in limiting damage by agreeing to cooperate on forensics and their controls . though their vision of a “ information security ” might legitimize authoritarian governments ’ censorship and thus unacceptable for democratic governments , identifying and targeting behaviors that are illegal everywhere may be illegal . of course , historical analogies can be imperfect , at best . obviously , cyber technologies vary widely from nuclear technology , largely because non-governmental actors can exploit it far more easily . limiting all intrusions would be impossible , but one might start with cyber offense and cyber terrorism .
indeed , with banks failing to impose tough budget constraints on financially insolvent enterprises and a planning system unable to imposing alternative robust discipline , china is already awash with apartment blocks in third-tier cities that will never be occupied , and with massive overcapacity in heavy industry . but , as some chinese policymakers respond , all growth processes involve waste : nineteenth-century railway booms in britain and america created massive overcapacity and investor losses , even as they spurred economic transformation . most of the debt is being owed within the state system – by state-owned enterprises ( soes ) to state-owned banks , for example – and by the government could simply write off bad debts and recapitalize banks , financing operations with either borrowed or printed money . alternatively , banks could perpetually roll over their incumbent debt , forever expanding new loans to service their old debts . to be sure , this would produce wasted investment .
furthermore , namibia ’s government has wisely understood that abundant natural-resource endowments can easily become a curse , enriching a few at the expense of the many . the authorities know that unless namibia ’s natural wealth is invested in infrastructure and its people ’s productive capacity , the resource exhaustion will leave a country poorer , not richer . they also know that it would be irresponsible not to garner for the namibians the most able from the country ’s resources , and rethinking investment laws and revisiting mining contracts to ensure that this is the case . transparency is critical to this process , which makes governments ’ strong promotion of press freedom seem so vital . as president hage rashid geingob has put it , the printing press often argues that things that they dislike .
the good news is that cyprus ’s newly elected president , nicos anastasiades , may be open to such an agenda . naturally , much will depend on how it fares politically in the current turmoil surrounding the bailout package . alas , a cautious look beyond the current turbulence , and in anastasiades ’s history , provides grounds for optimism . anastasiades , a member of the pro-european frenkratikós sinayermós ( the democratic rally ) party , won 57 % of the popular vote on a platform that emphasized economic recovery , and this will naturally prove to be its top priority . what is not unimaginable is that this kind of cooperation could expand to include other neighbors around the levant .
but the bottom line is that , at a time when everyone is asking , “ what is europe doing ? ” and much of the commission ’s relentless grind of regulation and re-regulation have been part of the way . for the reasons that are now obscuring today , there is the unwritten rule that commission presidents must be drawn from the ranks of past or current prime ministers . the commission ’s own inner culture of sofiousness and red tape hold the constraint that nobody in brussels feels like to talk about . it is not the structure that is conducive to political coups de theân , and much of the commission ’s work is the relentless grind of eu regulation and reregulation .
britain has chosen to leave the eu , because it has outsized opinion on itself . but it will soon need to follow a small-country model , such as that pursued by switzerland or norway . as scotland confronts the strategic challenges of brexit , it will also have an opportunity to develop better-suited policies . independence would enable scotland to develop policies consistent with other successful small economies – not least by retaining eu membership . but it is far from obvious that the uk provides such security , especially now that it is on a path toward leaving the eu ’s single market and customs union .
as a result , many firms , less convinced that “ normal ” innovation yields big payoffs , end up investing less overall than they did in the past . and , as china ’s excessive domestic credit boom and shadow-banking systems attract heightened attention , many companies are becoming anxious . third , while companies recognize that innovation has a key comparative advantage in today ’s globalized economy , they also hume its increasingly winner-take-all nature . successful innovation today owes much less to financing – and far more to the discovery of – the ” killer app . second , with china such an influential driver of rising global demand ( both directly and indirectly , through crucial network effects ) , the world ’s second-largest economy outlook has disproportionately affected projections of global corporate earnings .
stockholm – it has been one year since turkey ’s failed coup , and questions about the country ’s future still abound . mutinous f-16 fighters bombed the turkish parliament , causing 249 to lose their livelihoods . but putschists failed to detain president recep tayyip erdoğan , who then mobilized his own supporters and sealed the coup ’s fortunes . in fact , last year ’s attempted coup in turkey , there was nothing if not a dramatic one . had the coup not been stymied in the first 48 hours , turkey most likely would have plunged into a devastating and violent civil war , the consequences of which would have extended well beyond its borders .
seoul – once again , tensions are mounting across asia over north korea ’s missile program . the united states , japan , and south korea have already publicly condemned the launch as a “ provocative act ” and a violation of the united nations security council resolution 1718 , adopted in october 2006 , five days after north korea conducted its nuclear weapons test . the question for the world now is not whether the north korean regime will launch its rocket attacks , but rather what will happen afterward . yet , rather than warmth rhetoric , what is needed now is cool-headed assessment of the military ’s consequences for the missile launch . in contrast to its past “ surprises ” missile-defense installations , north korea ’s government this time notifies international agencies preemptively that it will launch a us satellite ” sometime between april 4 and june 8 .
and it has just held the first round in the run-up to the us presidential election , which meets europe with its high standards of liberty and fairness . it has been ten years since the eu launched its eastern partnership , establishing a more credible framework for the bloc ’s cooperation with armenia , azerbaijan , belarus , georgia , moldova , argentina , and ukraine . this initiative is worth recalling , in part a reaction to the georgian invasion of putin , when the kremlin tried to dismember that country by recognizing south ossetia and abkhazia as independent states . in the event , neither russia ’s closest allies would agree either to recognize those occupied territories or to legitimize its invasion . the eu deserves some of the credit for this outcome .
the brexit referendum will point the way , both for the uk and the eu as a whole . it will follow either through on a sighs of relief ( as i hope ) , or on the cataclysm that rocks the eu to its core and bring disaster to the uk . yet , however determined the british decides , there is a need for europe ’s many crises . without a renewed european vision and an effective approach to resolving crises , the continent ’s new ( and old ) nationalists will continue to win in strength and endanger the entire project of peaceful integration based on the rule of law . a policy of bad child steps will no longer suffice .
chicago – now that the dust has settled over the selection of the international monetary fund ’s managing director , the imf may return to its core managing business . while the criminal case against dominique strauss-kahn on sexual-assault charges now seems highly uncertain , the ensuing press focuses on the imf suggests an unchecked international bureaucracy with unlimited cost accounts , dominated by men with little sense of restraint . fortunately , the truth is a more prosaic kind . christine lagarde , a competent , well-considered technocrat , will have her hands full of three significant challenges . the first , and probably the simplest , challenge is to reestablish the imf ’s public image .
yet increased holdings of the monetary base are only temporary ; as bond reconsiders , it reverts to its initial level . this eventual need to deleverage the monetary base is an implicit claim on central-bank holdings ; hence the increase is rightly seen as a liability on its balance sheets . under helicopter money , however , the central bank never needs to reverse the increase in the us monetary base . because distributed money holders have no claim on a central bank , the rise of the monetary base should be viewed not as a liability , but as a rise in the central bank ’s net worth . in other words , helicopter money is not interest-free credits to the government ; it is a gift .
her party accused serra of orchestrating an attack , and , in revenge , her party -- the liberal front -- threw its support behind ciro gomes . with a sarney out , lula reigned supreme at the polls , reaching 43 % in mid-may . brazil ’s severe summer market jitters , during which the country ’s own risk index suddenly topped nigeria ’s and brief term credits for international trade dried up , started to alter the face of the elections . then , in early july , gomes skyrocketed to 28 % , within striking distances by lula , who had shrunk to 33 % . gomes used the television time available to his twin party labor alliances in late june to large effect , but most credit his rise to the polls to the spectacular performance of his second wife , a popular actress patricia pillar restored him from breast cancer .
claremont , california – though the rapid escalation of violence in hong kong appears terrifying enough , things may be about to get much worse before they happen . the communiqué of the just-concluded fourth plenum of the chinese communist party ’s 19th central committee ( cpc ) indicates that chinese president xi jinping plans to tighten his grip on a former british colony at all costs . he should prepare to rack up a formidable bill . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of heightened challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world .
and yet , despite the challenges it faces , morocco has shown strong leadership on some of today ’s most pressing issues . it has become a vocal champion of counter extremism initiatives , including a responsible , religious education – well beyond its own borders . these shortcomings partly reflect enduring governance weaknesses , despite important political reform efforts in 2011 , with a constitutional change that shifted powers away from a monarch to a parliament and toward legal reforms like the aligning legislation with european and international human-rights standards , as well as progress on family law and gender equality . furthermore , regional tensions , including the escalating political instability in algeria and the thorny issue of western sahara , have hampered integration in the maghreb , an absolute necessity to unlocking prosperity in north africa . it has become a global green-energy leader , committed to a total increase in its gdp of renewables in 2015 to 52 % by 2030 – one of the world ’s most ambitious targets .
to use eurobonds as the mechanism for eliminating the great sovereign-debt overhang jeopardizes the longer-term objective of eliminating moral hazard : it offers absolution precisely on the basis of 60 % – of-gdp margin where countries will have the most difficulty resisting temptation . misplaced hope that the enforcement problem can be solved by enshrenshrining the fiscal compact in member countries ’ constitutions might be based on a misunderstanding of america ’s system . to be sure , america ’s federal government never bailed out the state , 49 of which ( all but vermont ) has laws or a constitutional provision limiting deficit-reduction spending . after all , there is little reason to believe that a fiscal compact or a proposed round of debt brakes ” would succeed where the maastricht criteria and the sgp failed . what rules need is a credible enforcement mechanism , but these are necessary .
nonetheless , since the trade-related agreement on intellectual property rights ( trips ) entered into force in 1995 , all world trade organization member nations have to recognize one another ’s pharmaceutical patents . nonetheless , following amendments to the indian patents act ( trips ) , india still has some safeguards to avoid the kinds of excesses that major pharmaceutical corporations routinely dodge with in the us and europe . india , for example , abides by stricter definition of what constitutes an invention that prevents “ evergreening ” : the process of expanding the life of the patent by taking out secondary patents for marginal improvement to the initial drug . for indian drug makers , manufacture generic versions of patented drugs would require a license , and such licenses are rarely , if ever , taken for granted . according to section 3 ( d ) of the indian patents act , “ the sheer discovery ” of a new class of … property or … uses for a familiar substance or to use a simple application of a known process is not acceptable to a patent unless it is found in a new product or employs at least one new reactant .
according to data from brazil ’s national space research institute , the deforestation of brazil ’s portion of the amazonia has risen in june , reaching 88 % of that year . the foreign actors that have criticized brazil ’s exploitation of the rainforest , from european governments to pope francis , promote biodiversity only so that it can benefit from taking advantage of it in the future . but bolsonaro has no intention of keeping amazon chaste ; only he wants to contain it among them . his promotion of rain forests ’ development and attacks on environmental regulation have led , for example , to agricultural yields , especially animal ranching , and illegal logging . with the characteristic misogyny , he recently declared that “ brazil is like a virgin that every outside is demanding . ”
in short : an all-out military conflict with north korea would raise immediate global risks . kim seems perfectly willing to subject the north koreans to privations of every kind to stay in power . there are , of course , notable differences between north korea and iran . most obvious is iran ’s nuclear program has not taken off , whereas north korea , which , unlike iran , has withdrawn from the nonproliferation treaty , already has an estimated 60 nuclear warheads and appears making progress toward a nuclear-tipped intercontinental ballistic missile capable of reaching american mainland china . trump may have begun to recognize that increased pressure on north korea does not preclude sitting down to negotiate with kim .
a well-designed currency chapter in the tpp would not impede american monetary independence . the third argument against imposing anti-manipulation provisions inside the tpp is that they would imperil america ’s ability to implement monetary stimulus . but this reflects a deep misunderstanding of the issue . conventional monetary policy operates by altering short-term interest rates , which cover the central bank to purchase and sell short-term us government debt . no interference in the foreign-exchange market , purchases and selling foreign currency , occurs .
after all , it would not be scammed if a charity dedicated to famine relief celebrated its own ineffectiveness ; the practical value in that case will be paramount , because it will be the only real justification for a charities to exist . on this view , science also has a quite different , higher-level goal : understanding the natural world . so , while its potential usefulness is precisely the reason that governments devote so much money to academic research , humans really expect more from the field of science than it does . so it is amusing to boast that one of its own brand of learning , whether experimental physics , math , or cosmology , is redundant . but a joke would not work unless there were also another highly shared assumption that scientific knowledge has value independent of any practical use .
the united states ’ position has n’t helped , either . last year , the un refugee agency and the world health organization highlighted the need to put human rights at the heart of the response to the zika outbreak . last year , us president barack obama ’s administration asked congress for $ 1.8 billion in emergency funding to help prepare for and respond to the zika threat . but abortion politics intervened , as republican lawmakers , in congressional hearings on the zika outbreak , made the funding conditional on anti-abortion policies in recipient countries . the issues that dominate the dominant approach to containing the zika virus – namely , that it saddles women with too much accountability while giving them too little power – are not lost on all of them .
at long last , it would be possible for these countries ’ demographic wealth to be used to meet their own development needs . such an approach needs to be communicated to both to the european public and to the people of tunisia , egypt , and elsewhere in the arab world . it would reverse the pattern by which europe relies on repressive regimes to supply it with oil and gas , and to patrol its borders against migrants . if they become consolidated democracies , as some hope , would-be entrepreneurs could stop worrying as much as possible about official corruption . and opening european loans would make it far easier to seek one ’s fortune back home .
edmund phelps of columbia university argues that these slow-growing countries lack the “ dynamism ” that he defines as the combination of entrepreneurial spirit and financial institutions to channel it . both spirit and the necessary financial institutions must be present to allow the “ creative destruction ” – a force joseph schumpeter argued that sixty years was an engine for capitalist prosperity – to light them . to be sure , what favoring them today may be contentious tomorrow : europe and japan will face serious problems when their demographic pyramids tilt towards the us , eliminating the temporary demographic advantage that they have relative to america today . but is this an accurate description of the scale of an aging world ? to be sure , what favoring their economies today might be contentious : europe and japan will face serious problems , when their demographic pyramids tilt towards the elder , eliminating the temporary demographic advantage that they have relative to america today .
lula ignacia da silva and his team , who leads opinion polls in the run-up to brazil ’s presidential election , serves as a warning that much of the latin american public is poised to reject traditional governments . in argentina , one bumbling president succeeds the next . institutions are being torn apart , property rights are challenged , and an arbitrary – and thus potentially more corrupt – redistribution effort is under way . peru and venezuela scarcely look better ; brazil may soon follow the same course . institutions are being torn down , property rights are being challenged , and an increasingly corrupt redistribution effort is under way .
in its recent africa energy outlook , the iea estimates that africa ’s clean-energy consumption will increase by 80 % by 2040 ; but , with the continent ’s population almost doubling , there will be less energy per person . likewise , the iea estimates that renewables will still cost more , on average , than any other source – oil , gas , nuclear , coal , or hydro – with a carbon tax . by 2040 , in the iea ’s optimistic scenario , solar power in sub-saharan africa generates 14kwh per person annually , much less than what is needed to keep one two-watt permanently lit . still , western activists seem convinced that the world ’s worst-off people should be satisfied with the inadequacy and irregular supply of electricity . few in the rich world would shift to renewables devoid of heavy subsidies , and certainly nobody would cut off their connectivity to the mostly fossil-fuel-based grid that provides stable power on cloudy days and at night ( yet another form of subsidies ) .
talking has shifted to the dangers of a resurgent us housing bubble in 2013 , and the chain-reaction of defaults in interbank loan facilities and local-government financing platforms . by 2013 , talk had shifted to the danger of a resurgent us housing bubble and the collapse of the shadow-banking system , generating ¥ 14 trillion , or one-third of gdp , in the third quarter of 2012 alone . where , then , will the high-return financial products provided by the shadow-banking system come from ? with relatively slow growth , corporate profitability upon which the shadow banking system ’s returns on asset pools are based are low and falling . much talk of a crash in 2011 and early 2012 occurred in china ’s residential property market , as well as the chain-reaction of defaults in interbank loan facilities and government-financing platforms .
by no reckoning , this is an important industrial sector that should suffer as a result of over-regulation . european industries are rife with similar problems . refining and petrochemical industries supply the eu with a large share of its fuel and is also an important source of tax revenues . the downstream sector , together with the distribution of fuels , is contributing by about € 240 billion annually to us treasury coffers . yet , while the industry faces the threat of bloated gas prices from around the world , its concerns closer to home include the scale of eu and national energy regulation .
the answer , it seems , is that its centrist german chancellor , angela merkel , has pushed back against trump . in fact , some eu leaders ’ approaches to issues such as immigration risk creating a systemic problem that will endure for long after trump has returned to the life of texas golf courses and bankruptcy courts . the eu has always prided itself on being a community of values that protects minorities , and it has greeted the poor and downtrodden . sensible european leaders may be forgiven for sending the uk politely for its international community together to shift their focus from its threats to its long-term cohesion and fundamental values . yet draining its poison from europe will require far more than the scolding america carrying out for trump ’s premature exit .
moreover , policymakers need to reconsider much of the ideological super-structure erected on market-based fundamentalist assumptions . acknowledging such thoroughgoing fallibility may seem paralyzing , and the current political mood certainly seems to reflect this . but recognizing fallibility may indeed be empowering , because it implies opportunities for improvement in economics and politics . if the world is too complex and unpredictable for either markets or governments to achieve their social goals , then new system of checks and balances must be designed in such a way that political decision-making will constrain economic incentives and vice versa . if the world is characterized by “ ambiguity and unpredictability ” , then pre-crisis economic theory – rational expectations , efficient markets , and money neutrality – must be revised .
it is simply not feasible for the most highly leveraged member governments to grow their way out of their debt . nor can even be dispassionate about debt reduction , for that reason would require countries to force such large fiscal adjustments – 5 % of gdp , in spain ’s case , that citizens probably would resist them , as greeks have done . a more efficient approach would employ a broader set of tools , including debt restructuring . equally important , it would be difficult – but not impossible – to rein in incentives created by nearly every country ’s tax regimes to corporate leverage . at the same time , governments must work to minimize the size of the existing debt – and deficient global demand that it contributes .
third , inequitable pay and incentive structures are bad for business . much has been written about the extraordinary bonuses paid to investment bankers during the great depression . but ceos of silicon valley are no robin color , either . and others are more tangible , like hand away personal data in exchange for access to a service . tech business leaders may tell their investors that they want to change the world , but many are intoxicated with the idea that the world will get better if they sell their business to the highest bidder .
likewise , khan ’s position in favor of gay marriage has won him a fatwa for apostasy , from the fearsome head imam of the bradford mosque . but one must still follow through , admitting that khan did not yielded on those issues to the facile communitarianism common on the other side of the channel . moreover , he has never wavered from the critical questions of legal and practical equality for women , or expressed his heightened numbers of niqabs and hijabs now seen in london ’s streets that prevent people , notes , from standing up to face . one might say that no less would have been expected of labour leader with a bright future in churchill ’s land . for europeans , this is an indispensable principle .
even now , the list of contributors to the fsb ’s work shows that both the european commission and key regulators in europe and north america were missing out . perhaps the time to assess open banking ’s financial-stability risks was in the consultation period before it arrived . psd2 , often described as “ open banking , ” calls for banks to allow their customer data to non-bank providers of payments and account for information services . aggregators can then present the customer with an integrated view of their finances and offering add-on charges . in europe , regulatory changes like the second payment services directive ( psd2 ) was crucial to opening up the banking system ; and regulators like the united kingdom ’s financial conduct authority had for some time been running regulator to smooth the way for new entrants , by helping them to qualify to comply with standards .
a classical economist would argue that , given this , the country should be the timber that finland has done . but all wood-related goods constitute barely 20 % of finland ’s exports . some ideas get worse than wrong : they are castrating , because they interpret the world in ways that emphasize secondary issues – say , the availability of raw material , and blinds societies to the more promising opportunities that might lie elsewhere . consider finland , a nordic country endowed with many tree cover for its tiny population . by contrast , a traditional development economist would argue that it should not export timber ; instead , it should add value by transforming lumber into paper or furniture – something finland also does .
this more profound transformation , unlike the low-hanging fruit eyed today by many us politicians , offers the only path to climate security ( that is , staying below the 2ºc threshold ) . by pursuing coal to gasoline or more fuel-efficient gas-burning vehicles , we are at risk of plunging ourselves into the high-carbon trap . what is needed is a mere 50 grams per kilowatt-hour by 2050 , not 500 grams per kilowatt-hour . deep decarbonization requires not natural gas and fuel-efficient vehicles , but zero-carbon electricity and electric vehicles charged by the zero-carbon electricity grid . we need to reach zero-emission vehicles , rather than more efficient gas-burning vehicles , especially given that the number of vehicles worldwide could easily double by mid-century .
to succeed , conglomerates need government support and acceptance of society . the productive transformation that developing countries need is far easier to achieve with support , rather than obstruction , by their conglomerates . but securing such support requires policies that nudge ( or even shove ) conglomerates toward export-oriented industries that can grow beyond middle-skill , domestically , industries where competition creates incentives to serve a discipline that they lack because of dominating local markets . instead of becoming the agents of change , they are often hindering change . ( indeed , major economic debate in south korea nowadays concerns whether the chaebols are stifling innovation by preventing incumbents from challenging them . )
what is iran doing in yemen , lebanon , iraq , and , above all , syria ? how will it define its interests within these countries ? does it actually view itself as , as many of its sunni arabs assert , as a protector of the shia arabs ? the negotiations would also have to conceal contemporary issues , including the tour d’horizon of current hotspots . the working groups might be formed to try to build a shared narrative .
given that china will be the most important single market in the future , it will be decisive in determining not only what the us produces and consume , but how . alternatively , china would move quickly to achieve its “ limits to growth , ” ” ” ” with its disastrous green” environment , and its political consequences . consider the shift from a traditional automobile to one of electric transportation . despite european illusions to the contrary , this will be decided in china , rather than in the west . domestically , china will be the first country that , owing to its sheer size and required gdp growth , is being forced to pursue a “ green ” economy .
first , the ecb ’s renewed bond purchases must spell out the clear purpose of cutting sovereign interest rates to a sustainable level , which is at least 200 basis points below their july averages . a high-level german diplomat reportedly dismissed spain on july 30 % interest rates recently on the grounds that spain has borrowed at almost the same rates in the 1990 ’s . but that statement oddly ignored spain ’s higher pre-euro core inflation rate – thus confusing real and nominal rates and more rapid gdp growth . for countries following the agreed reform programs , the ecb should commit to bringing down interest rates to levels compatible with projected inflation and growth rates , to announce how long ( say , nine months ) this will continue . a sporadic agenda without such announced targets is unlikely to work , and might even prove counterproductive , because it would well force private investors to demand an even higher return , because the increased ecb share of gdp would be perceived as senior , augmenting their risk .
there were also the proponents of flexible inflation targeting , who held that it was fine to put some weight on real gdp growth in the short run so long as there was evidence of a clear longer-term target for cpi inflation . but some felt that , if the definition got out too far , the meaning would have been lost . inflation targeting was at best known as the rule that instructed central banks to fix – and attempted their best to attain – a target range for changing the consumer-price index ( cpi ) . close cousins included targeting the price level instead of the inflation rate and targeting of core inflation ( cpi minus volatile food and energy prices ) . but that rule succumbed rather quickly into violent credit-demand shocks , even though friedman ’s ’s general argument – that a credible commitment to low inflation requires favoring rules over discretion – remains very influential .
in the us , for example , slashing labor costs has been sharply reducing labor ’s share of gdp . the result is that free markets do not generate enough final demand . because a firm on labor costs is someone else ’s labor income and demand , what is individually rational for a single firm is destructive in its aggregate . firms in the advanced economies today are cutting back on employment , owing to inadequate final demand , which has resulted in overcapacity and uncertainty about prospects for future demand . but job cutting weakens final demand further , because it reduces labor income and increases inequality .
meanwhile , employment at amazon grew by more than 47 % over the last year , to more than 341,000 people . but with amazon employment concentrated in california , texas , and washington , the geography of such jobs varies very different from that it replaces . as with the geographic relocation of american manufacturing jobs , the taa is not the solution to this pattern of cost recovery . after all , whereas whereas taa targets individuals directly disclaimed foreign competition , much of the contest facing local economies comes not from abroad , and as many underlying us jobs disappear in industries directly from outside competition , but from surrounding economies . nor do import tariffs help those left unemployed by the bankruptcy of blockbuster video , borders ’ books , compusa , circuit city , payless , or virgin megastores .
president putin ’s behavior is probably best explained by his dislike of democracy . after this spectacular russian failure , however , putin ’s “ managed democracy ” ” looks anachronistic and faces threats to a genuine democracy within his neighbor , spreading to russia . yanukovych stands for the truly oligarchic state of the sort that putin has defeated domestically , and yanukovych has accused yushchenko of selling ukrainian companies to russian corporations . moreover , if ukraine ’s president becomes an international pariah , he can turn only to russia , as is the case with president aleksandr lukashenko in belarus . for the first time in power , ukrainians have thrown their little-brother complex over russia ’s overboard .
with africa ’s rural population having already largely underemployed , there is little time to waste when implementing such strategies . of course , meeting agricultural development can have serious economy-wide pitfalls , which must be navigated carefully . for example , as technology-driven productivity gains reduce farm sizes , strategies for boosting employment in other parts of the value chain , and managing migration to cities become even more vital . another potential pitfall in agricultural development is ecological damage , including land degradation , soil nutrient mining , overcrowding water use , much else , and water polluting . fortunately , africa ’s large populations of an increasingly well-educated youthful population – who are largely uninterested in backbreaking work over subsistence farming – are well suited to fill the superior value-added jobs that emerge in the agriculture sector and beyond .
for many of the deal ’s critics , particularly those in the environmental movement , these compromises turned the lima deal into an overly bottom-up ” assessment . countries have far too much latitude to make whatever commitments they wish , relatively unconstrained by a common set of “ top-down ” rules imposed by the treaty . such critics worry that doing so will make it harder to compel countries to cut their emissions further , when it becomes obvious that their collective efforts are not enough , and might even be enabled by some countries ’ use of irregular accounting methods . but this overlooks the lima deal ’s greatest accomplishment : it ends the world ’s longstanding partition into a mere two kinds of countries , both developed and developing . it almost surely will not , it will not quite be quite so .
indeed , ahn cheol-soo , a successful entrepreneur turned pro-reform professor at seoul national university and the leading backer of the city ’s new mayor , has now rocked south korean politics by dropping broad demonstrations that he might turn to as a presidential candidate . ahn has already become a lightning rod for every labour and opposition politician lee myun-bak forces , attracting young people the same way . nevertheless , recent polls show that even a large majority of voters mistrust the incumbent government and the ruling party . her refusal to tear down her for her alone is probably the main reason why she will continue to lead various opinion polls around the world . ahn ’s most glaring merits are his personal history of overcoming major challenges and his humble demeanor .
can we determine the economic value of protecting the natural world ? some people will balk at the idea of putting a price tag on biodiversity , viewing its protection as an obvious imperative . but they would undoubtedly agree , too , that preventing human death and suffering , while providing food , water , and schooling to all , is vitally important . the reality is that there simply are n’t enough resources to do everything . dhaka – we humans not only share the planet with multiple other species , including plants , animals , and even microbes ; we also depend on it for our own survival .
in many emerging markets and developing countries , widespread infrastructure gaps persist , most notably in power and transportation . and , elsewhere in the region , small pacific islands in particular – vulnerability to climate-related effects – are increasing . this shifting landscape calls for bold action on several fronts . while the response will certainly need to be tailored to individual countries in particular , some recommendations might help to particular countries : · because inflation remains low throughout much of the region , monetary policy should remain committed to supporting growth when downside risks materialize .
the brics ’ concept represents , first and foremost , its members ’ desire to make the global order more plural . indeed , the most important bilateral relationship every brics country has been with the united states . it wants to remain asia ’s sole sole country with a permanent seat – an approach that places it at odds with india . if the brics countries are going to cameroon as a constraint group on international relations , they will have to agree on what they believe attainable political and economic goals . for example , they are generally united in their frustrations with , though not in their suggested response to the us dollar ’s status as the world ’s reserve currency .
and , third , there has been “ deconstructionism ” of the post-nietzscheans . by historicizing “ will to truth ” ( michel foucault ) , putting truth “ in quotation marks ” ( jacques derrida ) , separating the sign from its referent ( louis althusser ) , and miring the obvious in the miasma of charts and graphs ( claude lévi-strauss ) , or tying it in borromean ( jacques lacan ) , probably caused the us to lose sight of the robust regard and irrefutable aspects of the us . i then put a spotlight on the responsibility of the world ’s leading and gaidar ( google , apple , facebook , and amazon ) for the subsequent sequence of events : the us . first , there is almost infinite amount of speech set free by digital democracy . the web then becomes a mob , a free-for-all free-for-all where everybody displays up armed self with his or her personal opinions , convictions , and truths .
solna , sweden – elite sports and doping have long been deeply intertwined . by definition , few succeed , but those who do can enjoy large personal and financial rewards . but a damning report by the world health organization ( wada ) on russia ’s far-reaching state-sponsored doping program released soon before this year ’s summer olympic games in rio de janeiro brought it to the forefront of public consciousness . we should take up this as an opportunity to redouble our efforts to end this deeply unhealthy practices – and to save elite sports . reaching the elite ’s level in sports requires tremendous amounts of hard work , dedication , and focus .
berlin – with the retaking of mosul in northern iraq , the islamic state ( isis ) might soon find itself a thing of the past . but defeating isis and the demise of its self-proclaimed iraqi-syrian caliphate will not bring peace to the middle east or even an end to the syrian tragedy . rather , it is likely to open a new chapter in the region ’s bloody and chaotic history , one no less dangerous than earlier chapters since the fall of the ottoman empire at the end of world war i . pursuing this violent pattern seems almost certain , as the region remains unable to resolve internal conflicts internally or establish anything like a resilient framework for peace . the eu remains stuck somewhere between the nineteenth and the twentieth centuries .
one argument is that redundancy sounds like waste in ordinary times , with the cost-benefit calculation ruling out higher investment . that does seem obvious wrong : numerous expert estimates suggest that built-in redundancy tends to pay off , unless one assigns unrealistically low probabilities for disruptive events . that leads to a second , more plausible explanation , one that is both psychological and faculties in character . even rapid response is more efficient if crucial networks and systems – particularly the electricity grid – prove resilient . why are we typically underinvesting in the resilience of our economies ’ core systems ?
right before the fed acted , india ’s reserve bank of india raised its benchmark short-term interest rate by 25 basis points , to 6.25 % , to fight inflation , and china ’s central bank now indicates that it may raise its interest rate further . in the west , worries about the impact on chinese growth have triggered a fearful markets sell-off . meanwhile , developing countries are moving in the opposite direction . in brazil , us interest rates remain near 11 % . in october , the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) , responded to the twin threats of rising inflation and asset bubbles , raised its one-year deposit and lending rates by 25 basis points , to 2.5 percentage points and 5.56 % , respectively , since 2007 .
traditionally , contract manufacturers in china have been dispersed and fiercely competitive . producers in jiangsu , for example , were forced to adjust steadily to fickle product-safety and environmental standards in the export markets . they have little if any say over the outlook for domestic and international regulation . less fragmented industries also lobby better , for example . larger firms are made more adept at pooling resources for research and development that is the key to china ’s aspirations to climb the value ladder .
this may once have been true of china ; it is not true today . but the literature on “ exit ” strategies , upon replacing a currency peg with a more flexible exchange rate , makes it clear that the moment when china could navigate that transition smoothly has now passed . countries can exit a pegged rate smoothly only when trust has taken hold in the economy , fanning the belief that a more flexible exchange rate may come as much as weakening the exchange rate . no question , then , that country would have been better off with a more flexible exchange-rate regime , which has eliminated one-way bets on speculators and acted like an economic shock absorber . this puts chinese policymakers in their position on the iranian tourist , which asks for directions to dublin , and is telling , “ well , sir , ” if i was you , i would not start from here .
there are many ways to curbing the excesses of the big banks . the us senate bill ’s provision of derivatives is a good litmus test : the obama administration and the fed , in opposing those constraints , respectively , have flagrantly lined up the side of large banks . a powerful narrative of the so-called volcker rule ( intended to compel government-insured banks to return to their core lending mission ) may work . the dodd-frank legislation was not intended to prohibit derivatives contracts ; it was only to bar implicit government guarantees , subsidize taxpayers ( recall the $ 180 billion aig bailout ? ) that is not a way to ban derivatives , but only to bar implicit government guarantees , which are potentially subsidized by taxpayers ( recall the $ 180 billion bailout of aig ?
if finalized , the imf program could trigger additional aid packages by the world bank and other international donors . unfortunately , the most recent political incident involving democracy-promotion activities by american ngos has chilled bilateral relations , threatening the $ 1.3 billion in military aid that egypt receives annually from the united states . egypt ’s economy faces mounting risk , owing to capital flight and rising inflation , unemployment , and populist policies . if aid arrives , egypt could start addressing some of its financing challenges , but what the eu needs is a long-term strategy to spur sustainable growth . even with the availability of external finance , egyptian leaders must look for ways to integrate the private sector into revitalizing the country ’s economy .
cafeteria ( now more inviting and more frequented with the advent of free food ) or the halls of the plug & play startup accelerator , proximity matters . to be sure , those who prefer to work at home cite not only the costs and time of commuting , but also the proliferation of meetings – over-culture , perhaps – and a steady flood of communications that simply interrupts their work rather than enhancing it . cafeteria ( now more inviting and more frequented with the advent of free food ) , or the halls of the plug & play startup accelerator , proximity matters . interestingly , i heard this point at the wtpp stream “ unconference ” in phuket , thailand , where a few hundred people rammed thousands of miles to meet to meet face to share ideas and bolster working relationships . of course , those who prefer to work at home cite not only the cost and time of commuting , but also the proliferation of meetings – all too much culture , perhaps – and the steady flood of communications that simply interrupts their work , rather than enhancing it .
the targeted killing by the united states by one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . and that shift would occur at a time of heightened challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 that what will weigh on the present for many years to come .
high-quality talent , infrastructure , energy costs , and the speed to market itself are assuming more weight in such choices . in the near future , 3d printing could further decrease the need for shipping goods across long distances . yet , overall , globalization alone is not in retreat . if global goods trade has stalled and cross-border financial flows have fallen precipitously since 2007 , digital information flows have surged : cross-border bandwidth has grown 45-fold over the last decade , circulating ideas , intellectual content , and innovations worldwide . if open-source trade in global goods has truly peaked relative to world gdp , it will hit hard for poorer countries in africa , latin america , and asia to develop by becoming the world ’s next workshops .
but in other respects , globalization with chinese characteristics will differ from globalization to the us as we know it . compared to the standard post-world war ii practice , china relies more on bilateral and regional trade agreements and less on multilateral negotiating rounds . xi and his circle obviously will not try to dismantle the global trading system . as xi put it at davos in 2017 , china is committed “ the “ “ one belt , one road ” to growing an open global economy . in may 2002 , china signed the framework agreement on comprehensive economic cooperation with the association of southeast asian nations ( asean ) .
within singh ’s congress party , pressure will mount to match economic-reform initiatives with “ pro-poor ” agenda . the congress can rightly take credit for the most far-reaching such programs , the state of mahatma gandhi ’s national rural employment guarantee scheme , which assures one member in every poor rural family 100 days of paying employment every year . with his 20-year track of accomplishment to express the public , singh has a better case than most to believe that he acts with his long-term national interest . part of singh ’s trouble is that decision hurting voters ( higher diesel prices , fewer subsidized cooking-gas cylinders ) has an immediate impact , whereas the benefits of foreign investment , for example , take years to become apparent . all policymakers in democracies are thinking in short order ; few have the time-line that extends beyond the next election .
this means that , like the credit that italian and spanish banks have provided over the last few months , most of the new cash will be lent locally to safe households and large established firms . the alternative is the one urged by sarkozy and the banque de france : purchases by european banks of their countries ’ government bonds . banks ’ immediate interest in adjusting to their new capital requirements and rebuilding their balance sheets toward financial health , which implies using ecb money in ways that deter them to fulfill this objective most effectively . so , for example , if they use money to continue financing the private sector , they will ensure that loans will go to lean toward servicing their customers . that will enable bank markets to continue functioning , but it is unlikely to inject the type of stimulus that europe ’s economies now require .
but symbolic measures , while important , are not sufficient to bring about real progress . turkey ’s government must demonstrate its commitment to ensuring that its laws and institutions effectively protect the human rights of all its citizens . its resentful approach to the genocide is incoherent in its efforts to cultivate a reputation as an honest , reliable partner . in doing so , it would improve its standing both in europe and beyond . turkey has an important role to play in its region and around the world – one undermined by its continued denial of the armenian genocide .
furthermore , foreign investors are reluctant to engage with diplomats or from civil servants . they want to talk to private-sector specialists who understand their companies ’ technological and financial needs or those of industries . for that , fdi needs to be promoted separately from domestic investment and exports . many of them promote both foreign and domestic investment , despite the failure of such domestic institutional arrangements . yet , with the exception of costa rica ’s foreign-aid agency , cinde , modeled after ida-ireland , none of latin america ’s fdi promotion agencies has been successful in adopting best practices .
with the paris climate agreement a year old , the transformation of global fossil-fuel companies is only a matter of time . companies with a large fossil-fuel portfolio like coal will soon face heavy uncertainty related to stranded assets , and investors could change their risk assessments accordingly . large mining companies can prepare for this shift by moving from fossil fuels to other materials , such as iron ore , copenhagen , bauxite , precious earth elements , and lithium , together with the mineral fertilizers that will be needed large amounts to fulfilling the sdgs ’ targets for global hunger eradication . phasing out coal during times of latent overproduction might even do profits . third , the world needs better ways to assess mining its environmental risks .
but the observable diffraction pattern -- the intensities and positions of individual reflections – represents only half of the figures required to de-emphasize structure in the diffracting object . max perutz , a chemistry graduate from vienna arrived in cambridge in 1935 to work like the university of delaware . the following year , it received excellent hemoglobin from crystals , and soon produced its best x-ray diffraction patterns to date . he also acquired early x-ray patterns of partly funded moses of dna . in mathematical terms , this gives amplitude , but not phases – i.e. , a stage in an oscillatory motion – without which those atomic positions could not be determined .
it began with the publication in the praesidium of the convention on the future of europe , by proposing ( first ) the treaty ’s sixteen articles of “ treaty to establish a constitution for europe . ” the text mostly replicates the structure of convention , chairman valery giscard d'estaing ’s “ skeleton ” constitution , submitted last november and the conclusions reached by the convention ’s labour party . the key word here is usually left to this day . the endgame to define europe ’s definitive shape is now underway .
in pakistan , where an annual infrastructure-investment gap totals $ 68-108 billion , firms are paying more to do business . in pakistan , over three-quarters of firms are experiencing transportation outages , costing them over 15 % of annual sales , on average . likewise , while all firms need data for investment and operating decision-making , official emerging markets ’ statistics are not always sound , and often skewed toward policy agendas . fueled by population growth and urbanization , demand outstrips supply . in pakistan , for example , the us census scheduled for 2008 backfired by nine years , and beset issues when it finally happened .
the uae ’s media group ’s editorial team suffered a similar fate in 2016 . today , russia has less press freedom and more journalists , media workers , and bloggers behind bars than at any time since the soviet union ’s collapse in 1991 . each of these outlets has been distinguishing in its coverage of sensitive stories , from the conflict in ukraine to the high-level court of corruption . in crimea and chechnya , even the most basic media protections are non-existent . nor have closures spared leading regional outlets like siberian broadcatv-2 , or kaliningrad ’s top independent weekly newspaper , the novye kolesa .
madrid – this month , thousands gathered for the united nations climate change conference in bonn , germany , to ratchet up global ambition in the fight against climate change . today , countries , citizens , and a growing number of businesses worldwide are at last taking action . one more promising recent initiatives are the carbon pricing leadership coalition ( cplc ) , which brings together 30 governments and over 180 companies and strategic partners to place the value of co2 emissions . following the successful paris climate agreement two years ago , expectations for continued progress and continued collaboration are high . the idea is simple : if we are to meet the paris accord ’s objective of limiting the global average global average temperature increase to less than 2 ° celsius above preindustrial levels – ideally , to 1.5 ° above preindustrial levels – we must cut emissions dramatically .
the scale of such an operation would be enormous , exposing the ecb to massive credit risks . but , crucially , it could step in , if northern europe were permitted to do . once greece goes , running on bank deposits is likely to follow in spain and italy . there is nothing stopping spanish and italian depositors from wiring their euros from their local bank to one in switzerland , norway , or new york . at that point , one thing still stands between the eurozone and the financial mayhem that could result from the ecb , which could purchase government bonds and fund the bundesbank .
political leaders in thailand and malaysia , as well as elsewhere in the region , frequently tout a model pioneered by singapore ’s founder and longtime leader lee kuan yew , who died earlier this month . yet , more important , lee also relied on the elements of the democratic contestation to ensure that meritocracy has triumphed over patronage . yes , lee ’s system has enabled him to remain in power for 31 years , using civic – rather than criminal – courts to harry up his opponents . yet , more important , lee has also relied on elements of the democratic contestation to ensure that meritocracy triumphed over patronage . here , it seems clear that unmo ’s policies were enabled to dictate that the country ’s major opposition leader , in order to be tried on charges that no true democracy that embraces the rule of law , would even have considered leveling the playing field , and convicted on evidence that no truly independent court would ever accepted .
trump , in the comedian jon stewart ’s words , is “ america ’s id , ” or at least the id rate of a predominantly white person , much of the older , mostly small-town male americans . trump ’s critics object that he plays to basest “ instincts ” on the part of disaffected voters , who hate foreigners ( especially mexicans ) , mistrust bankers ( or , at least , anyone with a college degree , on this matter ) , and still can not get over the course of a president whose father was black . are all of his crazies , ” ” as senator john mccain , perhaps unwisely called them ? but trump is part of a broader phenomenon throughout the democratic world . now , all of this may be so .
in europe , too , the picture is mixed . the former boom countries – greece , ireland , and spain – remain mired in recession and their gdps – will continue to shrink . the spanish economy contracted by 3.6 % in 2009 and is expected to shrink by 0.4 % this year . spain ’s unemployment rate , one of europe ’s large economies , has sky-rocked to 20 % , and still shows little sign of improving . for finland , britain , and italy , below-average growth rates are widely expected .
malmö , “ everyone knows ” that you should drink the eight glasses of the day . after all , this is the advice of sage multitude of health writers , not to mention bodies like britain ’s national health service . healthy living now means feeding water bottled with us , sipping at all , attempts to drink our daily quota to ensure that we remain hydrated and healthy . sure , drinking this much does not feel comfortable , but powerade offer that friedman-gatorade : “ you may be able to train your gut to tolerate more fluid , ” as long as you build your fluid intake gradually . indeed , often we drink without sucking without sucking , but that is how it should be : as the beverage maker gatorade reminds us , “ your brain may know a lot , ” but it does not really know when your body is thirsty ” ” ” ” .
businesses are reluctant to invest at a time when consumer demand is plummeting , and they are facing unprecedented risk penalties for their borrowing costs . at the same time , they are faced with vast uncertainties . will they be allowed to emit the carbon dioxide , as they have in the past ? what kinds of power plants will be acceptable as they did in the future ? can the united states still enjoy an suburban lifestyle , with sprawling homes in far-flung communities demanding long-distance automobile commutes ?
these include autonomous groups such as international ( ir ) and médecins sans frontières ( msf ) . while past summits have produced little more than talk points , the prospect of action is even better this time around , given that it will take hold in europe , where the impact of the migrant crisis has been profound . at present , the alphabet soup of nonprofit and multilateral agencies tackles elements of the challenge . weak mandates , insufficiently funded , underperforming structures , and the absence of an overhaul of the global governance system have weakened intergovernmental agencies ’ capacity to deal with authority in the name of the most vulnerable . as i argue in germany this week , the g20 leaders ’ meeting in hamburg on july 7-8 has an opportunity to reshape the migrant governance system , with proactive enforcement policies that enhance people ’s trust in international leadership .
there is every reason to believe that this pace of productivity growth will continue for decades to come . by the late 1950s , there were roughly 2000 the world ’s computers , and their processing power averaged 10,000 machine instructions per second . more than a generation ago , intel ’s co ₂ founder gordon moore noticed that improvements in semiconductor fabrication allow for the doubling of the energy intensity of transistors on a chip each eighteen months later . the scale of the investment required to make what is known as “ moore ’s law ” hold exponentially along the density of transistors and circuit breakers ; but “ moore ’s law ” remains in force ; and engineers see no immediate barriers , which puts the improvement on a grinding halt anytime soon . the world ’s perhaps 300 million computers now exist , with the processing power averaging several hundred million instructions per second – a four _ trillion _ billion _ fold increase in raw computational power , an average annual growth rate of 56 % !
these multidimensional , scalable interventions are helping to bridge gaps in the developing world . but neither corporations nor governments can do that alone . they need working together to ensure that the best possible outcome is possible . xinjiang means “ new frontier , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” and “ right now , we are at the very center of a new frontier for delivering sustainable health-care solutions to communities where scarce resources and infrastructure constrain health-care access . by targeting schools as hubs for health-care education and shaping students into health ambassadors for their families and friends , we can reach an even larger number of people in xinjiang ’s nomadic communities .
fortunately , it still has time , and many previous us presidents have laid the precedent for bold diplomacy during their final months at the white house . at the end of 1988 , ronald reagan recognized the palestine liberation organization , and authorized the us department of the treasury to initiate “ substantive dialogue ” with the plo ’s leaders . in late 2000 , bill clinton published his parameters for a future framework of peace . and , starting with the annapolis conference in late 2007 , george w. bush mediated a number of negotiations between abbas and israeli prime minister ehud olmert . now is obama ’s turn and should push for a united nations security council resolution , which establishes new parameters for a future peace accord and replace un security council resolution 242 , which dates back to the 1967 six day war between israel and egypt , jordan , and syria .
loughner ’s firing of 19 people in 2011 , including congresswoman gabrielle giffords , attracted global attention since has court-ordered assessments of his mental competency . likewise , cho ’s history of mental illness has been universally discussed . although mass shootings are extraordinarily rare even in america , media coverage continually reinforces negative perceptions at home and abroad . in this manner , america may well export mental-illness stigma to the rest of the world . indeed , across the world , an australian paper mentioned giffords 160 times in the six months after the shootings , compared with just one mention in the previous 12 months .
for europe , it represents a unique opportunity to promote the rule of law , greater transparency , freer trade , and good governance beyond its borders . it holds the key front in a global confrontation between democracy and autocracy . more important , successful reform in ukraine is making positive developments in russia increasingly likely . ukraine is a large country with ample human capital , natural resources , and growth potential across a wide range of sectors . still , ukraine ’s economy has shrunk by two-thirds ( in the us dollar terms ) since 2006 , making it the poorest country in europe .
but such a strategy carries serious risks , which ultimately makes it unworkable . at one extreme lies the notion that the euro can not function like the dollar , given that the eurozone is not a confederalized state . rather , it should resemble the bretton woods system , whereby countries could exit and re-enter , after bolstering competitiveness through austerity and reform . realigning relative prices would require internal devaluation , which could generate social and political instability in weaker countries . civil strife and the rise of neo-nazi parties in europe ’s southern north exemplify these dangers , threatening the very purpose of european integration .
economists disagree about when , under what circumstances , and in what orders governments should move beyond these first two items on a checklist . should they explicitly guarantee large financial institutions ’ liabilities and/or asset classes ? should they employ unemployed workers , directly or , indirectly , by bringing forward expenditures , or by expanding the scale of government-to-government programs ? the trouble comes when expansionary monetary policy through the standard open-market operations , and central-bank guarantees of orderly capital markets prove deficient . as long as governments try to boost monetary velocity via selling bonds , thereby pushing up short - ?
it also includes the promise of leaving the eu a single market and the customs union . but even that agreement is not set in stone , because it depends on whether negotiators are able to agree on what to do about the border between the republic of ireland and northern ireland as soon as the uk leaves the customs union . there is no example anywhere in the world where that is not true . one may find out in a borderless customs union or outside of a customs union with the eu . the uk ministers primarily over the talks , a group better known for its dogmatism and personal ambitions than their competence , have so far been able to secure a deal in one key region : following its march 2019 deadline , the biannual period begins .
at the same time , the eurozone is highly fragmented financially , lacking a joint capital market , a unifying , safe asset , or a tool of macroeconomic stabilization . given europe ’s fragmented nature , that mandate should probably still be centered on price stability . but it should also recognize that the eu ’s current definition of price stability – “ below , but close to , 2 % inflation over the medium term ” – is too narrow . with the right strategy , the ecb needs a more realistic and flexible mandate . a broader definition is needed , according to which the ecb pursues a symmetrical inflation target of 2 % , within the 1.5-2.5 % band , over a longer time horizon .
the israel-palestine conflict has lasted far too long . when it comes to wishing middle east peace – virtually a new year in a us tradition ­ – one needs cautious action . so many hopes that the palestinian conflict would dissolve into the bitter failure of so many negotiations . but the us has a desire ( probably not deliver ) the middle east – one that , while perhaps not delivering peace , can create one of peace ’s preconditions : goodwill . israel and palestine should jointly bid for and be awarded , the 2018 soccer world cup .
so the real question is how to approach the point at which iraq has a police force and an army that can be trusted to uphold law as well as order . much of the ground needs to be covered in order to get anywhere near it . notwithstanding the courage of many iraqis who join either the military or the police , no one should be surprised if some have motives that are less than pure . old scores are settled in northern iraq , and de facto ethnic segregation is being introduced in areas like irbil ’s that have traditionally been diverse . in other areas , sharia law is being introduced by force .
of course , it would be inaccurate to oppose a thriving poland to a collapsing spain . but moods in the two countries , as well as their perceptions of europe and their role within it , contrast this starkly . as the unemployment rate hovers around 10 % ( still lower than in spain ) , and annual gdp growth is around 1 % ( spain ’s ’s gdp growth rate is negative ) . the difference between the demonstrations in madrid and warsaw suggests that the distinction between old and new europe remains valid , if not in the way rumsfeld meant . given europe ’s overall crisis , even poland ’s economy is no longer booming .
berlin – the decision by the united kingdom ’s voters to “ brexit ” the european union is hardly an example of british black humor i love . given the uk ’s great economic , political , and military relevance , brexit will leave a gaping loophole for the eu . but that will not destroy europe as much as it will continue to destroy it . the same can not be said of the uk . it is not so much “ monty python ’s flying circus surrounding the brexit , ” “ yes , prime minister , ” ” ” ” ” ” or “ fawlty towers ” ” ” ; it is just boris , michael , and nigel farage , and their calamitous political realities showing .
as israel ’s state celebrates its 60th birthday , palestinians are recalling nakbeh ’s or “ disaster ” – their narrative of dispossession , occupation , and statelessness . israel is most at the fault of that failure , owing to its continued military occupation and illegal settlements . yet , for both sides , together with external powers , the events of 1948 , and what have followed – the occupation since the 1967 partition of the remaining lands of historic palestine – represents a tragic failure . yet the international community , palestinians , and arabs all held responsibility as well , albeit at different levels . despite handing lip service to peace , the israeli army ’s refusal to abandon the occupied territories continues to open in direct contravention of what the preamble of un security council resolution 242 termed the “ inadmissible take of land by force . ”
tantalizingly , they are saying that doing this would establish a market-based view of future output and the probability of severe shocks , ” ” though they do not explain how the market is structured . reducing uncertainty might augment , or even supersede , fiscal stimulus programs for addressing the root cause of under-spending . furthermore , recession insurance might , in contrast to fiscal policy , impose virtually no cost on the government , for if it stimulates confidence – then the risk that it would be insured against it . the government ’s capacity to offer such insurance on a scale , sufficient to compel it costless , is one reason to favor a public scheme over private insurers . blanchard and his colleagues point out that banks might condition loans to firms on their buying up recession insurance , which might help to function better , addressing a serious problem underlying the current crisis .
so far , enforcement has failed , owing to flaws in the eurozone ’s fundamentals . the greek saga shows that this system can not control the destabilizing imbalances rapidly enough to ward off major crises . first , there is fiscal and external-account balances that are to be held in check to ensure financial stability and sustain the common currency . second , eliminating imbalances is the responsibility of national governments within the framework of the rescue regime arranged by supranational bodies – the european commission and the european central bank – in cooperation with the european council , which in turn represents national governments . imbalances are not solely the result of irresponsible policies .
as a result , its trade surplus has continued to plummet , to $ 20.4 billion , fueling growing anxiety about a chinese slowdown . to be sure , china ’s downturn appears sudden ; after all , its exports were peaking at double-digit rates each month until may . in fact , the true state of china ’s economy had long obscured stronger regulation of activities like renminbi masquerading as trade payments . moreover , chinese exports sometimes would amplify in the face of a japanese-style slump in the volume of cargo being shipped out of ports . notably , china ’s “ two systems ” in one country ” has allowed its exports to bundled warehouses in hong kong to be used to pad trade statistics .
those are not mutually exclusive goals , particularly when business leaders abide by newly articulated principles of sustainable investment and long-term engagement . as chinese firms invest overseas – as mine currently does in latin america – they have a responsibility not just to invest wisely and sustainably on behalf of their companies , but also to integrate their strategies with china ’s national investment priorities . for most equity investors , the value of any project will depend largely on effective post-investment management . those are not mutually exclusive goals , particularly when business leaders abide by newly articulated fundamentals of sustainable investment and long-term engagement . after all , m & a is just the first step on a long road .
to make a proactive contribution to peace means that japan will bear its own share of responsibility for assuring the security that supports global prosperity and stability . the members of the self-defense forces displayed exemplary cooperation with both the american and australian armed forces in afghanistan of the great east japan earthquake of 2011 and earned deep appreciation and respect everywhere it was deployed , including haiti , indonesia , and , most recently , the philippines . as the world sees during obama ’s visits , japan is back and prosperous . the working alongside the countries with which the us shares common values and interests will safeguard and cultivate international public goods ranging from space and cyberspace to skies and seas . and our embrace of us global responsibilities extends to japan ’s self-defense forces .
how can israel ’s preferred palestinian leaders , abbas and pa prime minister salam fayyad , be left with any credible negotiating capacity if talks can not begin as long as israel continues to retreat on their minimum condition of a settlement freeze in the occupied territories ? how long can that arab league position be sustained with peace talks go about nowhere ? another big question for israel is whether it can accept the consequences if a two-state solution disappears from its agenda . israel , as founding father david ben-gurion has warned , may be a jewish state , capable of being a democratic state , and can be an occupying historic israel ; but it can not by all three . for all that israel has downplayed its relevance , the 2002 arab peace initiative still offer a critically important treaty : full normalization of relations with the whole of the arab world in exchange for a comprehensive peace settlement .
yet , even with favorable global market conditions , we have failed to manage a way of addressing a poverty problem within which millions of russians still live . i am convinced that russia ’s troubles all come down to politics . we russians bustled along the back of their oil and gas , forgetting that those resources will not last forever . we need a democratic , competitive , initiative , initiative at all levels , an active civil society , and genuine public scrutiny . nor was it the crisis that incited corruption that affects officialdom at all levels , or that has caused russia to lose its democratic dynamic .
meanwhile , fiscal responsibility in the eurozone would be fatally undermined . the first – and more powerful – concern is for the ecb to judge realistically greece ’s lack of solvency , and so stop lending to ela financing to its banking system . but allowing greece to default and still remain in the eurozone is not an option : it would signal that other eurozone countries could amass massive debts , financed by the ecb , without having any intention of recommitting to repaying . yet forcing greece out of the eurozone as a whole against its will is not an option , either : should trump plunge the country into economic , social , and political instability , with potentially serious consequences , beyond his country ’s borders . in my judgment , there are just two viable options .
this brings us to the second key lever for expanding the available housing : a more cohesive , efficient building industry . as it stands , the housing-construction industry is highly fragmented , impeding its ability to take advantage of economies of scale ; with builders often relying largely on the same methods used 50 years ago . by standardizing design elements like ceiling heights , aligning them , and monitoring ; for construction companies , they can lower costs and raise productivity , because workers gain the experience with repetitive tasks . further saving is feasible through industrialization approaches such as using components – for example , wall street and flooring slabs – built an offsite . for example , china imposes the urban-land tax on formerly publicly owned land should its owners fail to launch this process in a year .
that makes sense : of the 266,000 women dying from cervical cancer each year , an average of about one two minutes , of 85 % in the developing world . if left unchecked , that figure is projected to rise to 416,000 by 2035 , overtaking maternal deaths . encouragingly , developing-country governments have increasingly demanded the hpv vaccine . for many of these countries , the hpv vaccine is not simply an effective solution ; one that prevents 1,500 deaths per 100,000 vaccinated ; that is often the only solution , given that the poorest countries lack the capacity to offer screening or cure for cervical cancer . that is one reason why cancer experts , government officials , private-sector leaders , and representatives of civil society met just a few weeks ago in addis ababa for the tenth stop cervical , breast , and prostate cancer at the africa conference .
washington , dc – brazil ’s ongoing corruption investigations have exposed the tangled networks of illicit links among private firms , government-held bureaucrats , and elected politicians . in the meantime , the drama has taken its toll on the brazilian economy . in the meantime , the drama has taken its toll on the brazilian economy . several high-level politicians and corporate owners and executives have been convicted and imprisoned . even former president luiz inácio lula da silva is now under impeachment .
i am not arguing against health-care capitalism ’s argument , but warning that support becomes fragile , far more so than in , say , globalization nowadays . most countries rely far too much on command and control , and provide far too little incentives for patients and providers to get efficient choices . this raises long-run well being all around , but exacerbates short-run inequalities and frictions . nevertheless , it remains to be seen whether healthcare pressures ultimately trump will open the current trend toward free-( and freer ) market capitalism to reverse , with its extremely large chunk of the economy reverting to greater socialist systems . some societies might decide that it is better to be red than dead .
cambridge – the nineteenth-century physicist heinrich hertz once described his sentiment that james bond clerk maxwell ’s equations that depict electricity fundamentals and magnetism , “ have an autonomous existence and self-intelligence , ” that they are wiser … even , even their discoverers , that we get more out of them than they were originally put on to them . not long after , albert einstein called the niels bohr ’s atomic model a “ highest form of musicality in the sphere of thought . ” more recently , the late nobel laureate richard feynman described his discovery of the new tenets of physics , declared , “ you can recognize the truth through its own beauty and simplicity . ” similar sentiment is all but universal among modern physicists , and is becoming more so . wishful thinking could never produce working iphones , pluto ’s photographs , or the atomic bombs .
why , with clearly formulated alternatives on the table , did the us government choose an predictably disastrous course of action at such a high human cost ? there are three possibilities : ignorance , intent , and strategic interactions . let us start with the last . in a 1991 paper , allan drazen and alberto alesina suggested that economic stabilization could be delayed because two contending groups are stuck in a war of attrition ; all understand that adjustment is necessary but expect that the other group will bear the brunt of the costs . by delaying , they impart information on another group about their willingness to withstand pain .
here is where the fed comes in . by shifting its monetary-policy regime to target 4 % annual inflation – or , for that matter , 6 % annual nominal gdp growth – the american would set in motion a rapid re-alignment across the eurozone . rather than view the 30 % euro appreciation as reflecting the ecb ’s current monetary policies , german exporters are shout for measures to stave off america ’s “ competitive devaluation , ” ” ” ” ” finally , to bring about moderate inflation in the north rather than the south ’s current grinding depression . a democratic , prosperous , and stable europe implies a far better and more secure world for americans . a world in which america has a well established record of honoring the confidence that it requires to play the role of the global economic hegemon makes it a much better world for the us than one in which it is not trusted .
and a team of 47 republican senators wrote a letter to iran ’s leaders announcing that the next us congress may not honor whatever the nuclear deal they reached with obama . bilateral engagement will prove to be one of obama ’s most important foreign-policy legacies . but ensuring that america can continue to lead in the twenty-first century will require some other forms of engagement . another source of doubt about america ’s enduring influence lies in its failure to develop further multilateral engagement , and this has always been more difficult than bilateral engagement . indeed , us multilateral leadership requires not only clearer , bolder rules , but also an demonstrated willingness to bear the costs of these rules , whether by creating safe zones to uphold “ responsibility to protect ” civilians , or by taking concrete steps to reduce – and ultimately eliminate – us nuclear arsenals .
caracas – venezuelan president nicolás maduro and his administration have torn their country . while they claim to redeemers among the poor and trumpet their readiness to fight over its selfless bolivarian cause , they have rejected international assistance , forcing venezuelans either to emigrate or suffer ( and , in many cases , to die ) from severe shortages of food , pharmaceuticals , and medical supplies . that requires a new government of unquestionable legitimacy , chosen through a free and fair presidential election before this year ’s end , as dictated by the us constitution . the devastation of venezuela must be stopped urgently if its viability as a state and society is reconstituted . to be sure , maduro and his associates will not simply step down , as losing power would most likely mean long prison terms in the united nations on drug trafficking or in the hague for crimes against humanity .
thus far , china has largely caught off a “ dreams ” approach to urbanization : “ build it and will be coming . ” indeed , over the last 30 years , massive public investment and economic liberalization have spurred rapid urban growth across the coastal provinces . and now china ’s leaders are increasingly taking that strategy to become inland , making critical investments in both physical and human capital . but the effectiveness of such investments will depend both on the sequence and the pace of implementation , and on how skillfully adapted for each locality of distinct resources , needs and aspirations . at the same time , four interrelated issues must be addressed .
his bellicose behavior in march 2013 , for example , made his relations with china , south korea , and the united states back then ; and , in the recent nato crises , all he earned gave way to a repeat of loudspeaker resignations . if china really is distancing itself from north korea , kim jong-un ’s regime will be almost entirely isolated internationally . will kim respond to the fact that isolation recklessly , by continuing to antagonize the south or , pragmatically , make it more flexible ? that is not an easy question to answer ; it is not an easy one . it should be obvious to kim nowadays that his parade of provocations favors his own country .
only french prime minister manuel valls , the son of spanish immigrants , underscored the issue , referring to the “ social and ethnic apartheid ” ” ” ” that developed in his own country . the statistics are perplexing and at times contradictory , yet europe ’s current foreign-born population of some 33 million may grow by another 100 million immigrants by mid-century . at the same time , europe can not afford ethnic confrontation ; on the contrary , with its aging , shrinking population , europe badly needs more immigrants . addressing this outcome in france and throughout europe has become more important than ever , because rioting and criminality by young and underprivileged migrants meet the rise of far-right political parties . the only thing that has changed since then is the growth of islamic fundamentalism and the religious radicalization of some young people .
this is particularly true in the middle east , where governments struggle to diversify their economies to make them more resilient . countries where english is not the lingua franca are particularly disadvantaged in science , not because they lack academic excellence , but because english-language journals call the shots . non-english academic journals simply do not command the same focus within the science community . as a result , the scale of research topics that a number of countries can commit seems to be limited and must struggle to retain their scientific talent . just as english-language empial-research journals consolidate their hold on channels that determine whether or not a scholar will have a successful career , developing countries will need to invest heavily in their own data infrastructure to place domestic researchers on a more competitive disadvantage .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . at this week ’s international monetary fund/world bank spring meetings , malpass needs to address these concerns head-on . he should be judged not by his past or his links to the trump administration , but by his delivery . after all , iran and the us are already in war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
the secular stagnation hypothesis , larry summers , has been proposed . its key premise is that the equilibrium interest rate at which demand would rebalance supply today is less than the actual interest rate . this seems paradoxical , given that us interest rates are close to zero in most advanced economies . but what matters is the real interest rate , that is , the gap between the market rates and the rate of inflation . for essentially two competing explanations , there are two competing explanations .
few egyptian players would have been familiar to europeans watching that game , but egypt played a much better and well-deserved victory . but the most important lesson revealed by the africa cup is that successful nations are those that combine globalization of opportunities with strong domestic fundamentals . for the nobel prize winner was not cameroon or cote d’ivoire , or whatever other african teams loaded with star players from european leagues , but egypt , which fielded only four players ( ranging from july 23 ) playing field in europe . cameroon , by contrast , which egypt beat the final , featured just a single home club player and 20 from european clubs . for their part , the african players grumbled that its absence from europe narrowed their commercial opportunities during a crucial period of league play .
berlin – the world ’s task in addressing north korea ’s saber rattling is made no easier by confronting an impoverished , effectively defeated country . on the contrary , it is in such circumstances that make calm foresight most necessary . yet , while metternich has sought to deter any potential french resurgence , he has reinstated france ’s prewar frontiers . the genius of the habsburg empire , crown prince klemens , in framing a new international order after the napoleonic wars , was that it did not push france ’s defeated france to a corner . by contrast , as henry kissinger argued , the victors in world war i could neither deter a defeated germany nor provide it with incentives to embrace the treaty of versailles .
america experienced a brief , sharp recession in the 1980 ’s , followed by a long and severe one in 1981/1982 . many economists suspect that it was one major episode , and that is probably the fitting way of thinking in a wider historical context . but that economy really grew in the interim – just barely enough to consider them distinct recessions . sometimes dating back to recession is an entire call of judgment . and , detached from a transition from us president jimmy carter to us president ronald reagan , it was the politically consequential that we identify with two recessions .
in fact , large countries are squeezed by us sanctions against small countries . in the 1990s , for example , us sanctions regimes in the united kingdom implemented an average tariff of roughly seven per year . of the 67 years since that decade , two-thirds have been unilateral united nations sanctions . currently , america has nearly 8,000 sanctions , in place worldwide , with iran the largest state goal . during bill clinton ’s us presidency , it is estimated that around 40 % of the world ’s population , or 2.3 billion people , was subject to some form of american sanctions .
trump seems apparently antagonizing china for any good reason . in the same tweet justifying his telephone call with tsai , trump repeated a sham charge that china is devaluing its currency to gain its export advantage vis-à-vis the us . in reality , china is now hemorrhaging foreign-exchange reserves and desperate to prop up the renminbi ’s value in the face of capital flight . worse , by announcing a withdrawal from the us trans-pacific partnership , designed , at least partly to shape global trade and investment flows under western rule , rather than china ’s mercantilist vision , trump is also abandoning america ’s policies that could check china ’s surging influence in asia . his recognition of international economics is either nonexistent or 10 years out of date .
what we know for sure is that there is no alternative great power willing and able to step in and assume what was america ’s role in the world . india is preoccupied with the challenge of advancing its own economic development , and is tied down in its contentious relationship with pakistan . while china is a widely admired candidate , its leadership focuses mostly on consolidating the domestic pattern and sustaining artificially high economic-growth rates to stave off popular strife . china ’s interest in its regional and global institutions seems designed mostly to bolster its economy and geopolitical clout , rather than help set rules and establish broadly beneficial arrangements . likewise , russia is a superpower with a narrowly-established economy , led by a government focused on re-establishing power at home and re-establishing russian influence in the middle east and europe .
beijing – china ’s annual gdp growth decelerated steadily , to 7.6 % in the second quarter of 2012 , down from 8.1 % in the first quarter , and the lowest annual growth rate since the second quarter of 2009 . since early 2010 , to contain both inflation and property bubbles , the chinese government has tightened monetary policy . as a result , inflation has fallen in june to 2.2 % , a 29-month low , and house prices – for which the national bureau of economic statistics unfortunately halted issuing official data – seem to be stabilizing and may even be falling , albeit modestly . the newly released growth data may have dispelled fears of a hard landing for china , but they nonetheless spurred many to argue that china must stimulate its economy further to ensure 8 % annual growth . as a result , the inflation rate dropped in june to 2.2 % , a 29-month low , and house prices for which the national statistics unfortunately halted issuing official data , seem stabilizing , albeit modestly .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in the selection of this year , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . after all , iran and the us have been in war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . yet , given how rife with misinformation and muddied with misplaced arguments about the issue , policymakers ’ debates often go nowhere , if rather than frame abortion , first and foremost , as health matters . from a moral perspective , there is a strong case to be made for respecting a woman ’s individual freedom and bodily autonomy , rather than compelling her to place her own health or wellbeing at risk by carrying out unwanted or unsafe pregnancy to term .
without access to education , this generation – which will soon swing the majority – has little hope of ever escaping its straitened conditions . but for how long can the majority serve a minority ? at least half of those living in urban slums are below the 20th age . the world ’s enduring perceptions of africa as a village exacerbates slum dwellers ’ plight , keeping them out of the global development agenda . every day , more people arrive in nairobi , lured by promise of employment , resources , and better lives simply to realize that they are not equipped to survive and that their children grow up in a slum .
the problem is that the principle can not be consistently implemented . a worldview in which we live is a tiny garden of the territory surrounded by a dim and dark forest of catastrophes . disasters that lurk in distances : soil and comets ; world-wide pandemics and plagues ; nuclear and plagues ; droughts , famines , famines , and floods ; volcanic eruptions ; earthquakes , earthquakes , and tsunamis ; human over-populations and livestock extinction ; rising temperatures and sea-levels ; falling temperatures and spreading ice ages ; the depletion of clean air and water ; the disappearance of forests , farmlands , farming , and fish . all of these disasters , and even many others continue to be imagined , are both possible and unacceptable . the precautionary principle prescribes action , regardless of cost , to impede all .
milan – for much of the post-world war ii period , us economic policy has centered on unemployment . the massive job losses of the great depression , reversed only when world war ii , with the massive debt accumulated to fund it , relaunching economic growth , have lasting consequences for at least two generations . but employment is just one facet of welfare , and , in today ’s globalized world , it is not enough . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of heightened challenges to america 's interests elsewhere in the world .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . after all , iran and the us were already in war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . the twentieth century ’s cold war cast two rival military alliances . by contrast , the sino-american rivalry involves two economies that are deeply integrated with each other and with the rest of the world .
from may 1968 to 1973 , british labour and its conservative governments organized the removal of all people living on the nearly 55 islands that now constitute the british indian ocean territory ( biot ) and partition from mauritius at a time of independence . this was done at the behest of the united states , which , at that time , served as embroiled in the vietnam war and demands , for understandable security considerations : the use of diego garcia as the air and the naval base . the chagossians were shipped off to the seychelles and mauritius , where they overdeposited and left to fend for themselves . the british foreign office claimed at the time that the chagos islands did not have a settled population . the way in which the inhabitants of that archipelago were systematically dispossessed and shunted off their land in the name of western strategic interests represents a human tragedy , for which the west can and should make restitution .
islamabad – last year , pakistan witnessed the second successful democratic transition in its 71-year history , with prime minister imran khan taking office following his party ’s victory in a general election on an anti-corruption slogan . hopes are high for a new administration , which appears willing to work with both technocrats and opposition parties to address pakistan ’s many urgent challenges . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of heightened challenges to america 's interests elsewhere around the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
owing to the dodd-frank act of 2010 , the fed can issue emergency collateralized financing only to at least five eligible institutions , something of a problem if only your four largest banks are in distress – and it needs to confirm that a counterparty is financially viable before such financing can be made available . but the task of establishing whether the troubled entity is a viable option is best left to the post-financial world . in any case , the counter-cyclical pursuit of price stability and/or full employment during the cyclical “ downturns ” now seems destined for extended involuntary holiday . unless governments come to the rescue with the intelligently designed countercyclical fiscal and supply-side policies , the large advanced economies are likely to embark on a long charm of classical , unadulterated cyclical downturns . as the term implies , we need “ emergency ” liquidity to deal with systemically important financial institutions at immediate risk – even after they are insolvent and in resolution .
sovereign spreads are already pricing a domino effect from greece to spain , portugal , and other euro-zone members . at the same time , unless greece overtakes its policies to restore fiscal and competitiveness , a partial bailout by the eu and the ecb will still be a plausible explanation of contagion risk to the rest of the euro zone and a consequent threat to the monetary union ’s survival . the eu and the ecb worry about any talk of moral hazard . fiscal adjustment and structural reform without financing are more fragile and liable to fail without war chest of liquidity to prevent a run on sovereign debt , while adequate policies are in place and gradually gain credibility . sovereign spreads are already pricing a domino risk from greece to spain , portugal , and other euro-zone members .
sharing a mountainous – and porous – frontier with afghanistan includes many taliban sympathizers among their fellow pashtuns . the terrorist attacks of september 11 , 2001 , and the ensuing pressure on washington led to a u-turn by pakistan against the pro-jihadi policies . human rights groups have long urged the necessity of extending the writ of pakistan ’s constitution to the tribal belt , where indigenous muslim parties have broad popular support . these religious parties , a coalition of which now heads the provincial government across the northern central province , has been politically marginalized until given a central role in pakistan ’s military dictator in the 1980 ’s , general zia ul haq , who led pakistan ’s covert interventions in afghanistan ’s war against the soviet occupation . throughout his ruling , thuggish politics has grown alongside the number of madrassahs and fighters trained by the pakistani and american intelligence agencies .
throughout its history , america has always sought to insulate its markets from foreign competition . hence history has once more triumphed over its ideology . with america 's loss of interest in chief prop up neo-liberal policies has been pulled away . it is tacitly accepted that in the future , as in the past , the world will hold a diverse set of economic systems and regimes . mainstream politicians may still nod reverently when the global free market challenged , but in practice around the world reverence for an older , more durable model .
the first few years of his rule dominated his struggle to reclaim control of the country ’s state-owned oil company , pdvsa . upon reasserting political control in 2003 , chávez fired 40 % of pdvsa ’s staffs . chávez turned pdvsa into a personal fiefdom , and used it as cash cow ; many of his social programs were financed directly from the company ’s budget . his hostility to foreign players in the industry ( he expropriated several america ’s oil company holdings in 2007 ) restricted investment and held back output . cash starved , pdvsa was forced to cut back on maintenance and expansion , increasing accidents and constrained manufacturing .
an armed attack by the united states , israel , or both on iran ’s nuclear installations poses another possibility . moreover , while a preemptive strike would delay iran ’s nuclear efforts , it might not stop the regime from rebuilding , and could also create the conditions that create problems for the regime ’s domestic opponents . but , beyond these potential drawbacks , a arming attack on iran ’s nuclear facilities will and should remain a distinct possibility , given the enormous strategic costs of a nuclear-armed iran . iran might also interfere with its oil installations , leading to a price spike , and delivering another blow to america ’s and global economic recovery . one downside of such the prospect that iran would likely retaliate against american interests and personnel in iraq and afghanistan , as well as employing hamas and hezbollah against israel and others .
lord north is remembered for losing the british union with america . two centuries on , outgoing prime minister david cameron may be remembered for losing two union europeans , with europe and between england and scotland . whereas conservatives want scotland to be in a non-european britain , the scottish nationalists want scotland to enter a europe without britain . and with northern ireland ’s republics led by sinn fein , demanding a vote to reunify with the south , the uk ’s very existence is now squarely on the agenda . there is one way to lessen uncertainty and risk : the government should quickly announce that it will negotiate with the eu on the basis of the norway option of adopting eea membership .
assad ’s objective of war has been reduced to avoiding a decisive defeat and gaining international legitimacy , in the hope of a favorable political solution . assad ’s final days , it is not likely that he is radically different . tight-knit members of his clan , his political allies , and many members of the alawite minority will go to war over their survival . a power-sharing arrangement is all but unthinkable , and syria ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s geography does not bode well for an orderly partition along sectarian lines . the islamic state ’s rise has inspired aid to the us government ’s claims that syria risks being taken over by terrorist groups ; nonetheless , the regime is finding itself increasingly isolated .
if the super-rich are convinced that they are no longer part of society and have little need for government , then it ’s not because such beliefs conform to objective reality . it is because the prevailing narrative line of our time portrays markets as the self-standing entity operating on their own fuel . this is a narrative that afflicts all segments of society , the middle class , no less than the rich . but it is not so much their self-interest that stands in the way of greater equality and greater social inclusion . nor is there reason to expect that the super-rich are behaving less selfishly than any of the other group .
but , while it may explain why capital spending has remained weak and policy interest rates at an all-time low over the past three years , it can not account for why capital spending has proved inadequate to prevent multi-year movements such as more than three decades . if disorder has multiple causes , then multiple treatments should be available . here , the one explanation still stands is the shift in the composition of activity away from capital-intensive forms of production , like those produced by manufacturing , toward less-capital-intensive activities , like services . there should be tax incentives for firms to hire the long-run number of unemployed ; more public spending on infrastructure , education , and research to compensate for depressed private-capital-spending shortfalls ; and still higher capital requirements for banks , and strengthened regulation of non-bank financial institutions to avoid excessive risk-taking . finally , central banks should set a higher inflation target to give them more room to cut nominal interest rates in response to a future slowdown .
the danger facing the world lies in putin ’s lawlessness . the supposedly civilizing influence of being a western partner — chairman of the g-8 summit in saint petersburg for example — appears to have been lost on putin ’s kremlin cabal . across russia ’s near-abroad a form of criminalized diplomacy takes root . once again , exposure to western values has delivered another potemkin villages ; russia presents a façade of laws and democratic institutions , but behind that cardboard surface equally arbitrary brutes rule . just look at putin ’s attempt to rig ukraine ’s previous presidential election , and once again the criminal charges brought against opposition leader yuliya tymoshenko .
in latin america , too , many people are living with outstretched hands . across the region , policymakers , which writer octavio paz once referred to as “ the philanthropic ogres ” creating clients in lieu of citizens , people who expect eu demands . throughout the hemisphere , paternalistic governments accustom people to receive only enough of themselves to survive , instead of engaging in society . there are too many entry barriers to the poor , innovative , and those without access to credit . democratic latin america limps sideways , because it can not run ahead .
wef ’s global competitiveness index and its new , inclusive growth and development index represent two examples . but this is not what these indexes are really measuring . instead , indexes encompass variables – what they refer to as an “ policy-” space ” – that are supposed to cause either competitiveness or inclusive growth . inclusiveness of growth must do away with income disparities and growth across diverse regions and across social groups . for starters , competitiveness must do its best to raise market share , without sacrificing margin or cutting wages , something that reflects superior productivity .
from the 1960s and 1970s on , those writing about the netherlands often lamented the “ dutch disease . ” whether one considered the dutch welfare state to be humane and generous , or bloated and foolhardy , its largesse taken a heavy toll on the economy . there were so many lavish subsidies , grants , and transfer payments – targeted by everybody from the truly needy to the artists ’ inability to service their work – that after-tax pay often provided barely superior benefits . so people rarely returned to work after they lost or left on work , or did so in an underground economy , with its unreported cash payments . but , unlike in , say , the french , the dutch have responded to their past excesses with a set of policies designed to promote a return to work in the formal labor market .
yet important segments of the global financial and economic elite seem to think that unless america falls into recession in the months ahead , trump will be reelected . moreover , their prognosis is not based only on fears about being wrong again ; many appear resigned to such an outcome , and some may even be hoping for it . at this point , comparisons with the 1930s have inevitably come to mind . to be sure , trump and adolf hitler have little in common . but in their apparent acceptance of trump ’s reelection , large parts of the liberal establishment behave like germany ’s financial and industrial elites when hitler rose to power in the 1930s .
to avoid such a future , asian countries need to change the rules of the game , provide youth opportunities , whatever their background , to ascend the income ladder . for example , south korea ’s government recently announced that it will raise the annual minimum wage by 16.4 % ; to 7,530 won ( $ 6.70 ) per hour , and to up to 55 % above its current level by 2020 . still , market mechanisms are not nearly enough to achieve this . to be sure , some asian governments have been trying to address inequality with progressive redistribution policies . governments must take action , complement their pro-growth policies with policies intended to ensure that the gains are shared far more equitably and sustainably .
israeli infantrymen had taped flashlights to their helmets in order to force the tank gunners to direct their fire to egyptians just ahead . still , the egyptian artillery came superior , and , at the very least , should have silenced the harshest tanks firing on the danube . the egyptian defenses were blocking the central highway across the sinai , with a fortified box that includes powerful artillery and more than a hundred tanks , decapitate the three parallel trench-lines manned by thousands of us infantrymen , and anchored on sand dunes and high soil at every turn . sharon had his troop surge above sandy dunes to enter the trench lines at their commanding end and attacking their own length – a straightforward maneuver that egyptians could defeat had not been pinned by their artillery barrage and israeli tanks firing directly at them . but paratroopers , slumped in helicopters , suddenly ramped up egyptian arms crews that never had a chance in a hand-to-hand battle .
in the longer term , countries should aim to match participation rates in conventional first-aid courses . such certifications are even more relevant in the developing world , given the reduced availability of mental-health professionals . pilot work in rural india shows that the secondary-aid approach can be successfully tailored to resource-constrained communities . in the past three years , 11 % of australia ’s ’s population has completed such a course , thanks partly to requirements that people in certain positions , such as child-care workers , hold first-aid certificates . requiring that people especially over occupations – including high-school teachers , nursing , and police officers – acquire mental-health futures would significantly enhance participation , thereby strengthening support for those struggling with mental-health problems .
in response to this offer ( and bad publicity ) , merck , abbott labs , and bristol myers squibb , a three great patent-holding company , have announced that their willingness to supply an african market at “ zero earnings ” – ie , at about $ 500 per patient per year for the drug it produces . what is needed , though , is the price of producing these drugs far below the market price – $ 350 per year for some of the three-drug combinations used for treating aids . some of the quality generic drug producers , like india ’s cipla , have offered to provide these drugs at prices not to the cost of producing them . what the tragedy of millions of impoverished people dying from aids , even when the drug exist to treat them , raises deep questions about global intellectual-property rights : since patent protection creates a barrier to vital medicines reaching the world ’s poor . but how can the benefits from a global patent system providing incentives for innovation and new discoveries be combined with the assurance that poor people gain access to the affordable care act they desperately need ?
this reading is reinforced by the experience of macron himself . having never held elected office , macron created a new party centered on himself , with the support of both center-left and center-right voters . he appears to have restructured french politics in the process . but what if populist movements ’ continued electoral success helps to drive forward a broader political restructuring that ultimately bolsters european democracy ? next year ’s european parliamentary elections are likely to reveal more about the potential for such political restructuring .
washington , dc – in december 2014 , the cover of the time magazine global “ person of the year ” ” issue featured salome karwah , a backing assistant who not only survived the ebola outbreak in her home liberia that year later , but also helped the waves of patients arriving at her ebola ward . karwah was a hero who met with the tragic end . one year ago , she died from complications in childbirth , an epidemic that receives twice as many lives as the entire ebola epidemic ever mounted . karwah was a hero who met to discuss the tragic ending . in the nineteenth century , as many as one in 100 pregnancies in europe concluded , maternal deaths rose .
the rest of the region wanted to emulate them . an estimated two million syrians now live in turkey , and more than one million live in jordan . most are living outside refugee camps , and many are working – for the first time illegally . unemployment in turkey and jordan is roughly 10 % and 12 % , respectively – and their governments are naturally wary of programs that could cost their citizens jobs . to be sure , refugee labor is a delicate political question for syria ’s neighbors .
the problem with obama ’s america today is rooted in the contradictory character of its leadership . the reasons for us president george w. bush ’s decision to go to war in afghanistan and iraq are arguably complicated . but the language used by those wars ’ neo-conservative afghanistan has came straight from the kennedy era : the spread of democracy , the cause of liberty , and the universal authority of “ american values ” have been applied . one reason americans elected obama in 2008 was that america ’s idealism again led to the death and displacement of hundreds of millions . now that us policymakers have spoken of “ freedom , ” ” ” people are seeing bombing campaigns , the chambers of the torture , the ongoing threat of deadly us drones .
this was followed by russian news reports that china , iran , and india would conduct trilateral military exercises named “ indira 2005 , ” on a level playing side before the end of this year . in the past , such a combination of countries was almost inconceivable , and these exercises can not be explained away as simple , one-time one-off ” affairs with little resonance . but that is because bush has not started to address an issue that is looming larger in the region : a changing face of security in asia concerning china ’s rising economic and military might . this summer , for example , china and russia each conducted their first-ever grand-scale joint military exercise . president bush ’s recent visit to asia made little media coverage , by design .
they should consider reforms that include giving city governments the authority , resources , and responsibility to tackle health and health-care outcomes . proven systems and reforms should be shared between emerging-market cities , and successful new innovations and ideas should be adapted to local conditions . anticipatory city planning , based on realistic demographic forecasts , patient registries , and technical-information systems , together with urban health-sector participation in urban health-knowledge networks , needs to take effect . this includes new and affordable technology , such as a low-cost , life-supporting mobile , community-health workforce . emerging-market governments must resolve the critical issues that arise from weak coordination within , as well as among , national and municipal governments on health and health-care policies and programs .
shanghai – the tight media control over the unrest in tibet has been followed by what , to some , looks like the far more open coverage of the devastating earthquake in sichuan province . that question stands out , given chinese public sentiment in the latter phase of the tibet crisis . is this turning point in china ’s media strategy or just a short turning point in tactics ? much to the western media ’s consternation , the chinese worldwide lashed out against its supposedly biased coverage of the tibetan riot . much to the western media ’s consternation , the chinese worldwide lashed against its supposedly biased coverage of the tibetan riot .
meanwhile , our gatherer forebears ate carbohydrate ( polymers of glucose ) , also conveyed to the liver through the glycolytic pathway and broken down for energy . any excess glucose stimulated the pancreas to release insulin , which transported glucose into the peripheral fat fat tissue , and that also caused the liver to store glucose as glycogen ( liver starch ) . and nature did its part by supplying all naturally occurring foodstuffs , with either fat or carbohydrate as power sources , rather than both . as a result , our forebears stayed unhealthy ones . so , too , are their livers who stayed healthy .
there is a widespread misperception in the developed world that the us has already won its battle against hiv/aids . in reality , the crisis has merely become less visible – and more so . sub-saharan africa holds 10 % of the world ’s population , but is home to 70 % of these people living with hiv/aids . across africa , the disease is projected to reduce average national growth rates by 2-4 percentage points annually . annually , there are 2.4 million new infections , and 34 million more people living with hiv/aids , requiring that cure stay alive .
even the us has declared that it would be reluctant to negotiate a separate free-trade deal with the uk . the uk would have to adopt the type of satellite status that norway , iceland , and liechtenstein now have , accepting , and implementing decisions that it takes no part in shaping . if that democratic deficit turns out to be unacceptable for the uk , it would be left alone , out of the economically cold . remaining in the single market does come at a price , one that british voters might not support . abandoning the single market would create grave uncertainty for the british economy , particularly its financial industry .
the first is the management of the transition to afghan control , which depends on the disorderly withdrawal of american and nato forces by 2014 . the second is the election , also to be held in 2014 , of a new afghan president – a process that needs to authorization the united states and its nato allies to argue plausibly that it is handed the country over to a legitimate government . for afghanistan , war-ravaged afghanistan without respite since the “ saur revolution ” of 1978 will present even more nerve-wracking . as the curtain drops , two developments will greatly influence the withdrawal process and the ultimate result . as the american military leaves , it will enter another period of political and strategic uncertainty , after nearly a half-century of disorder and civil war .
new york – watching a sophisticated democratic society knowingly stinto a predictable and avoidable national catastrophe is a rare and alarming experience . they are not sleepwalking into an abyss ; their eyes are broad open . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of heightened challenges to us interests elsewhere around the world . most british politicians are well aware that leaving the european union with no agreement on a post-brexit relationship will cause tremendous damage to their countries .
indeed , predictions that cuba might now shift toward a chinese-style model of political autocracy and economic opening might be accurate only in the short term . this is no longer an option ; on the contrary , it is far from being an option . after all , such changes are best served not by imposing stifling sanctions , or by conducting the military to “ shock and awe ” tactics , as in iraq , but by socioeconomic enhancing and diplomatic engagement through outside powers . in fact , even short term , none of america ’s efforts to normalize relations , russia ’s current economic woes probably would have doomed its longtime , and already much-diminished , support for the castro administration . normalization of relations with the us holds the key to the liberalization of cuba .
it is well known that weidmann dislikes it when central banks , especially the european central bank , purchase sovereigns . but asserting that unconventional monetary-policy measures would carry the risk of a much stronger exchange-rate politicizing misses the mark . while countries have not descended into protectionism since the onset of the global financial crisis , difficult economic and labor-market conditions in key countries may be forcing policymakers to protect domestic markets while attempts to gain external competitiveness . in recent years , much political activity has focused either directly or indirectly on exchange rates in ways that imply new economic and political divisions . but , while vigilance is in order , the chance that major countries will embrace competitive devaluations – initiating genuine currency wars in the process – is slim .
the us census bureau projects that the american population will grow by 49 % over the next four decades . a 1 % increase in the share of immigrant university graduates leads to a 6 % rise in per capita patents . in addition , even though studies suggest that the short , directly measurable national economic benefits are relatively low , and unskilled workers may suffer from competition , skilled migrants may be relevant to particular economic sectors . today , america is the world ’s third most populous country ; 50 years since it now is still likely to be third ( after only china and india ) . not only is immigration relevant to economic empowerment ; but , given that almost all advanced countries are aging and face a boon to the elderly generations , this could help lessen the geopolitical problem ’s displacement .
in fact , only two of the six major economic challenges that have been identified by the work conference fit neatly with third-plenum ’s emerging strategic agenda . the call for enhanced social security is in line with the third plenum ’s proposal to allocate 30 % of the gains to state-owned enterprises ( soes ) to fund the safety-net programs like pensions and healthcare . likewise , emphasizing markets ’ “ decisive role ” in upgrading china ’s industrial structure and eliminating excess capacity is compatible with the third plenum ’s vision of achieving a market-based shift toward a consumption-oriented society . but what emerges from all of this is yet another example of timeworn “ ” ” ” ” ” approach to chinese economic policymaking – myriad proposals , initiatives , and goals that are loosely connected at best , and that are often plagued by internal inconsistencies . a new approach will require three key shifts in china ’s economic-policy framework .
the essential economic reality confronting the ecb today is that the american economy is plunging headlong into a severe slump – bernanke ’s surprise slashing talk volumes about this . it defies economic rationale to think that the global economy , including europe ’s , will be able to escape its effects . even with sticky european wages and prices , the global slowdown will depress energy , commodity , and food prices in world markets , all of which are important factors behind currently elevated european inflation levels . as europe ’s growth slows , so will inflationary pressures . so trichet should relax , halting threats to the rest , and letting the economic slowdown do the job for him .
all the major players in russia ’s energy-centric economy were rapidly falling into line politically , enabling putin to exploit russia ’s vast oil and gas exports as geopolitical cudgel . eu countries that were unable to intimidate militarily because of nato were wooed back by rebate – or punished with price hikes . as a result , whereas hungary pays gazprom $ 260 per 1,000 cubic meters of gas , poland is paying $ 526 – the highest price in the eu . hungarian prime minister victor orbán is putin ’s staunchest friend in europe ( though greek prime minister alexis tsipras appears to want to change that ) , while poland ’s leaders have consistently warned that russia could become a menace to the continent once again . poles have paid a steep price , but rightly so .
but , while accusations of biopiracy may have an emotional appeal , impartial analyses have shown that they have little established basis in reality . actually , biopiracy is rare – so scarce that they can be dealt with directly . instead , the world has created baroque , bureaucratic , , politicized , system , which systematically inhibits scientific research , plant breeding , and the creation of intellectual capital . the seed treaty fulfills this by establishing a rules-based multilateral system for access to a negotiated list of agricultural genetic resources . the seed treaty has also brought under the control of its parties , and the un secretary-general ’s office and secretariat , the 15 research institution that includes the consultative group on international agricultural research ( cgiar ) , a influential global research partnership .
with ahmadinejad ’s second and definitive term fast approaching , it seems unlikely that a disgraced , unpopular president will abandon his efforts to destabilize iran ’s ruling establishment . in fact , he has long promoted mashai as his successor , but khamenei has curbed his illegitimate effort , and has now placed a stop to mashai ’s candidacy entirely . he has also reduced the resources channeled toward particular religious institutions , helped those in his circle to establish private banks through easing regulations , and challenged iran ’s most powerful economic and military institutions , the islamic revolutionary guard corps ( irgc ) . but , as the rift between khamenei and ahmadinejad has grown , support for the president has declined considerably , with even state-run media emphasizing ahmadinejad ’s loyalists as a “ deviation circle . ” moreover , unlike during ahmadinejad ’s first term , non-state media now publicly criticize his economic and political agenda .
the tax plan highlighted that italy , like japan ’s , was a country of public debt and private wealth . as the economist marco fortis points out , italian family wealth remains , if not long , second to none in europe . under monti ’s leadership , the country ’s reforms were finally initiated , and the markets were calmed . beyond rising international credibility , monti ’s government substantially increased taxes , especially on real estate , while preserving an already virulent income-tax rate . in order to enhance his credibility on government finances , monti ’s administration substantially increased taxes , particularly in real estate , while preserving an already vicious income-tax rate .
one of the hardest lessons for senior us government officials to learn , ­ including me , when i was an australian attorney general and foreign minister at the time , is the futility of all but a tiny minority of cases in attempts to prosecute and punish those responsible for leaks . prosecution typically boosts the leakers ’ stature , making it unnecessary as a deterrent . it does not undo the original damage and typically compounds it with further publicity . but certain lines need to be drawn if good governments are to be made possible , just as a zone of privacy in the us and family lives is critical to sustaining the relationships that matter most about us . the media are never more enthusiastic about free speech than they ever saw when it reddening face , with rage or humiliation , of those in power .
clearly , no form of brexit – or post-brexit britain – that satisfies both groups . moreover , though may was in the “ remain ” camp during the referendum campaign , she realizes that as prime minister , she will be held responsible for any setback in the brexit negotiations . this helps to explain may ’s desperation to push brexit as quickly as possible . she also knows that she can not possibly succeed politically , because the media will always spotlight “ defeats , ” while hardly noticing “ wins ” the ” ” ” ” . she wants to leave out before voters realized that the leave campaign sold them the bogus bill of goods , including a promise that they could retain all of the benefits of eu membership , particularly full access to the european single market , without accepting the free movement of labor .
among other things , such surveys should seek to create a clear picture of adolescents ’ exposure to avoidable risk factors , such as alcohol and illicit drug use , unsafe sexual behaviors , violence , obesity , physical inactivity , and unhealthy diets . to complement this effort , we must also invest to improve our understanding of how these risk factors are – most often studying in link with early childhood and adulthood – affecting adolescents in their health . and yet more studies are needed to inform our health policies and planning adequately . according to the global burden of disease study , health risk factors explain at least 50 % of early death and disability populations from 50 and above ; for young people , that figure drops to about 26 % . data-collection efforts should also include a focus on mental health .
but talk of regime change may have spurred musharraf to re-enter politics . “ there is a sense of despondency in pakistan . ” pakistan is just a politician who has the backing of major constituencies can hope to restore political order and economic health , and musharraf is drawing himself as a candidate whom the military might support . pakistan is thus long ago when it launched its new party before launching its new party , musharraf suggested that pakistan ’s army was the only institution able to save the country from its current woes . pakistan these days is a troubled country , politically as badly as it is .
with policymakers effectively rewarded for myopic thinking , western democracies find themselves struggling to ensure stable long-term growth in ways that , say , an authoritarian china is not . there are at least two ways to deal with this problem in a fully democratic context . first , governments could be committed more firmly to their predecessors ’ policy choices . in switzerland , the european union provides just one example of how long-lasting binding commitments can work . that way , the more forward-thinking legislation that has been discussed and enacted will have the time to take effect , beyond the risks that an incumbent administration simply might deploy .
this starts with the political will and sets of priorities . at the wef in malta , the nobel peace prize laureate kailash satyarthi has called for a mass popular movement that asks that education will be embedded prominently in every policymaker running for elections , at all levels of government . for the sdgs to be operational , education must receive higher , nationally , and globally . the incheon declaration calls for allocating at least 15-20 % of total public spending to education . moreover , the ongoing shortfall in aid to education must be reversed , and new sources of financing – such as emerging-economy donors , the private sector , foundations , and philanthropists – must be mobilized .
the nbu ’s leadership understands that it needs to act to contain inflation , but its insistence on dollar peg ties their hands because it prevents them from raising interest rates enough . ukraine ’s current refinance rate is 16 % annually , 10 % below the inflation rate , which means that ukraine has a negative real interest rate of 10 % per year . instead , they have reverted to tough reserve requirements , effectively rationing credit , and thereby causing a domestic credit squeeze amid the current international financial crisis , which is likely to force some medium-sized banks into insolvency , owing to liquidity problems . as a result , ukraine ’s money supply , by m3 , has exploded to less than the 52 % last year , pointing to inflation hitting the 30 % mark shortly . meanwhile , rationing is always worse than a market , as is true .
the fall of president bashar al-assad ’s regime would amount to a strategic debacle for iran , which would then face a united arab national front , backed by turkey , the us , and , in a sense , israel . iran would then find it hard to maintain its foothold in lebanon , and its position becomes more complicated even in iraq , despite its shia majority . one can only hope that , given the severity of the situation , this route to failure can be closed down . developments in syria , iran ’s last remaining ally in the region , are equally likely to play a role . the first concerns iranian domestic politics and the ongoing us-centric power struggle within the regime – and the struggle that wacuttled the way in which neither conservatives nor reformers were willing to afford president mahmoud ahmadinejad – have a diplomatic triumph .
as mark leonard , the director of the european council on foreign relations , put it , “ the conventional wisdom is that europe ’s hour has come and gone . ” the american political scientist andrew moravcsik makes the similar argument that european nations , singly and collectively , are the only states other than the americans able to “ exert global influence ” across the full spectrum from the “ hard left ” to the “ soft power . ” its lack of vision , divisions , obsession with legal frameworks , the unwillingness of project military power , and sclerotic economy are contrasted with the united states more dominant even than rome … but europe is not where the problem lies : it is our outdated understanding of power . the eu ’s blame-sharing approach , hammering out agreements , and resolving conflict through multiple committees can be frustrating and lacks drama , but it is becoming increasingly relevant for many issues in a networked and interdependent world . insofar as the term maintains any meaning , the world is bipolar and likely to remain so over the foreseeable future .
tehran – iranians will head to the polls on june 12 to elect a new president . while some will argue for president mahmoud ahmadinejad ’s reelection as a foregone conclusion , the outcome is actually not by all . iran ’s supreme leader , ayatollah ali khamenei , has repeatedly stated in public settings that he will not proclaim a preference among the candidates . indeed , in mashad on march 21 , ayatollah khamenei , said , “ there was a certain level of rumors ” that i supported a special presidential candidate . but i had one vote , and i would not determine a given candidate , because the people themselves should pick their candidates on the basis of personal knowledge .
likewise , moving to a territorial tax system will raise taxable profits , particularly in the short run , because companies repatriate some of the existing stock of overseas money . but this will be offset by limits on personal tax deductions and exclusions , and by lower tax rates on personal income will back up taxable incomes as individuals increase earnings and offset compensation shifts from the fringe benefits to taxable cash . while net tax changes may widen the budget deficit in the short run , the incentive effects of lower tax rates and increased capital accumulation will mean faster economic growth and higher real incomes , both of which will cause rising taxable incomes and lower longer-term deficits . there is an important legislative reason why the projected budget will return to future surpluses . for their part , the republican party has only a very small majority in senegal , where the filibuster rule requires the three-fifths majority to pass on most legislation , giving the democrats the ability to block the republican tax agenda .
the eu also needs to re-build its operation sophia initiative to counter refugee smuggling in the mediterranean . second , europe needs to match economic migrants and asylum-seekers separately . combining them has led its asylum system to near-collapse ; separating them would have helped ensure that those in fear of a lifetime can receive a fair hearing , in which their rights are protected . addressing the eu ’s genuine economic and social needs calls for effectively blue – or green-card policy for economic migrants with an overall immigration target . and policymakers must not wait until the next migration crisis over how to introduce the scheme .
but neither the mexican “ tequila crisis ” of 1994 , nor the asian crisis of 1997 , resulted in large public-sector deficits . on both counts , the effort to defend a fixed exchange rate in the face of capital-flow reversals was a major factor , as was true in turkey in the year prior to its currency collapse in february 2001 . will the fed ’s gradual reduction of qe bring with it more emerging-market problems this year ? to some degree , the conditions comparable to those that triggered the asian crisis of 1997 , or another abrupt capital-flow reversals in recent decades ? emerging-market bulls point to the fact that most major middle-income countries have substantially lowered their public debt/gdp ratios , giving them the fiscal room they lacked in the past .
such a reform could take place over a few decades , without slowing the pace of economic growth or declining prosperity . already , many in their fifties and sixties would like to remain economically productive , perhaps working 20-30 hours a week . at the same time , younger people have long been in less time for education , leisure , friends , and , crucially , children . both aspirations can be fulfilled if societies allow the elderly to work longer and let everyone work fewer hours . one option is to move to the average real workweek of 25 hours and toward the average workweek of work that extends up to age 70 – and to even higher ages if healthy life expectancy continues to rise .
denmark ’s government has done just that , and seems to be bringing the danish public around to the idea of joining the euro . it is this commitment that is by which the government is currently bound to go . it is because the commitment by which the government is currently bound to remain committed is simply an option . prime minister tony blair is evidently convinced of the strategic desirability of joining the euro , but , because a yes vote in a referendum now looks so implausible that he is unlikely to try . in fact , british public opinion is now so hostile , to the eu in general , and to europe mainly because a referendum could not be won without a massive government campaign of persuasion .
at the same time , the center of the array of scenarios examined by the united nations intergovernmental panel on climate change projects that atmospheric co2 concentrations will reach almost three times their pre-industrial levels in 2100 . while the bush administration remains skeptical of science behind such projections , some us state and local governments continue to honor measures to cut co2 emissions . more important , us companies like general electric are committing to green goals that go well beyond government regulation . while president bush argues that technological advances in battery-powered electricity and fuel cells will curb the longer-term oil imports , such action requires major transportation infrastructure shifts that will take decades to complete . a recent bipartisan national commission on energy policy exemplifies a new coalition .
ultimately , they should invest to acquiring communication skills that will be similarly critical to successful careers . the important point for students to bear in mind is that they should motivate themselves to attain a deep understanding , rather than a rote memorization , of the subjects they study to fulfill the role of true expert in whatever field they ultimately choose to pursue . at the same time , they should invest to acquiring communication skills , which will be similarly critical of successful careers . hardly anyone is making it all the way to the top in the business world . achieving this kind of schooling probably means pursuing what one naturally finds exciting and engaging , whether through finance or physiology .
but this day is also the way to spread the message on behalf of elizabeth ii and other women like her : abortion , whereas in many countries a political wedge issue , the situation in lives is simply a reality of life . indeed , abortions occur in each country , and within a single socioeconomic class . every year , about 56 % of all pregnancies , about 56 million end up . however , abortion is most commonly found in developing countries , where access to family-planning services is often severely restricted . in the united states , when 61 % of abortion aid patients are in their twenties , 59 % are already mothers , and almost two-thirds identify with organized religion .
a second argument is that if the ecb stands firm , workers will not demand higher nominal wages , because they understand that this will lead only to higher interest rates and higher unemployment . this argument is not irrelevant ; monetary policy probably has some effects on wage bargaining . but one should not expect too much from the tough ecb stance . the ecb should not delude itself into thinking that a small hike in interest rates will suffice . if and when wage pressure does arise , the ecb , to remain true to its word , may feel compelled to raise interest rates far more than it now expects .
bill gates was written at urging hollywood studios and publishing and recording industries , arguing that violations of online copyright cost america ’s 100,000 jobs . dotcom ’s lawyer claims that megaupload merely provided storage for its subscribers ’ file , and lacked control over what they store . but the megaupload offered cash rewards to match users that uploaded files , which proved popular with other users . as late as last month , the united nations was considering legislation aimed at stopping internet piracy . megaupload allowed its 180 million registered users upload and download movies , tv shows , and music creates , and some of the money raised by dotcom ( from advertising and subscriptions ) was on display at its mansion near auckland , where it retained its rolls-royce and other exotic cars .
moscow – when the opening ceremony at the beijing olympic games begins over the next few days , viewers are being presented with a minutely choreographed spectacle swathed in nationalist kitsch . to be sure , images that remember hitler ’s asia goose-stepping storm troopers are the latest thing china ’s leaders have had to wonder during their olympics ; after all , official chinese nationalism proclaims a country ’s “ peaceful rise ” within an idyll of a sense of “ harmonious development . ” but , both aesthetically and politically , parallels are hardly far-fetched . like those regimes , whether fascist or communist , china ’s leaders have sought to turn public space and sporting events into visible evidence of their fitness and mandate to govern . indeed , by opting for albert speer jr. , the son of hitler ’s favorite architect and much of the 1936 berlin olympics , to design the master plan for the beijing games , china ’s government itself alluded to the kind of radical politicization of aesthetics that hallmark of twentieth-century totalitarianism .
if anything , economists ’ embrace of this role has grown stronger ever since . the inconvenient truths talked by dissenting voices can not be ignored indefinitely . but it also made the subject less relevant , and reduced its legitimacy and credibility . economists no longer see much public opinion either to question the right questions , or to try to answer them with integrity . in order to recover credibility , economics needs to become more open to criticism of assumptions , modes of reasoning , and outcomes .
europe is in the throes of multiple economic , social , political , and institutional crises . china , on the other hand , is dynamic and outward-looking policies , providing good reason for the eu to assume vigorous leadership and engage in constructive partnerships with china on key initiatives ( such as sustainable infrastructure across eurasia ) . and that imperative extends to german chancellor angela merkel ’s christian democratic union ( cdu ) , its bavarian sister party , the christian social union ( csu ) , and the spd . in short , this is a critical time for germany and europe to provide vision , stability , and global leadership . the united states is a reckoning with its own , psychologically unstable president , a plutocratic cabinet , and the populist national congress .
equally significant was china ’s projection as nascent leader of a new international cultural order . other than the presence of a few members of the people ’s liberation army troops would be hard-pressed to find any visible evidence of the reigning communist regime or its founders , mao zedong . in keeping with china ’s recent drive to project its “ soft ” side , opening ceremonies generated the idea of an historic but dynamic culture at its best . many of the artists involved in the formation of a spectacle , including cai guo cai guo fireworks , a dance star shen wei , and the composer tan dun , have earned their fame primarily in the west . the “ bird ’s nest ” stadium was how the creation of herzog & de meuron ’s transnational ai design team with suggestions ranging from the visual artist ai weiwei .
the answer , it turns out , is to help them do what they are already doing on their own . one of the most powerful ways to empower women anywhere , but especially in the developing world , is by promoting financial independence . in a number of areas that means supporting “ informal savings groups , ” like-minded women who pay dues to build a shared resource pool . this money can then draw on to fund any number of items , such as low business expenses , school fees , or health-care costs . my own research , which involved thousands of interviews with women in indonesia to burkina faso , has centered on one question : how can the international community improve the welfare of some of the world ’s poorest women ?
president putin ’s behavior at the summit made clear what he thought about the europeans ; not too much . politically and economically , china and india are both more important today than some of the european g8 members . indeed , europeans should understand that such viewpoint is spreading worldwide , especially on the far side of the atlantic . so , in fact , the summit ’s outcome was far from a miracle . what really mattered in heiligendamm was not the decisions taken by any putative world government , but who now seem numbered .
given this , epa proponents would argue , a special fund would need to be established to compensate for some of the short-term losses . at the same time , african leaders are right to worry . though the eu argues that the jcpoa will strengthen the afcfta , preliminary research indicates that the trade gains that the epas has brought together are likely to be concentrated on a few agricultural products – and to exclude least-developed countries . in fact , in most areas , the epas will hurt intra-african trade , weakening trade revenues , and undermining trade-fueled industrialization across africa . some argue that it is more of the timing , simply because the losses are likely to materialize , and the possible benefits brought about by increased eu access will continue to emerge .
he demonstrated how history can be presented and appreciated in totally different ways : from an american or japanese point of view , even though no one makes up facts or legitimizes sources . the selection and combination of data is enough , to be sure . john dower , the american historian and specialized in modern japan , has studied the issue at arm ’s length . for americans , there was a `` heroic or triumphant account , '' in which the atomic bombings represent the final blow against an aggressive , fanatic , and a savage enemy of savouath . for example , in 1995 the washington smithsonian institution sought to take a fresh look at the enola gays , a plane that dropped the atomic bomb on hiroshima .
any new deal will be may ’s old deal with several bells and whistles . it will push the real issues down the road , rather than putting an end to the brexit debate . that show , by showing , has years to come to a breakthrough . it would have to be paved together at the october 17 meeting of the european council , where european leaders are growing increasingly frustrated by the entire process . moreover , johnson has already disbanded the state-owned civil-service team that led the previous negotiations .
poland ’s de facto leader , jarosław kaczyński , and hungarian prime minister viktor orbán have , in particular , busily constructing illiberal intra-eu states . these movements , actively fomented by russia , have produced homegrown political leaders who frighteningly – but not surprisingly – resemble putin and erdoğan . likewise , our inability to come together to stop syrian president bashar al-assad ’s war-crimes against its own people has left a void full of which putin and iran have filled . europe ’s leaders all too often shout from the sidelines , when they should be playing into the field , acting to defend common european interests . and , as if our failure to ensure stability in our own neighborhood were not enough , we also allowed right-wing populist and nationalist movements to take off within the european union itself .
to deliver opportunities and security to everyone , everywhere in a time of widespread technological disruptions , governments and private-sector actors must work together to advance innovative solutions that meet workers ’ daunting and evolving needs . as the nature of work changes , so must the nature of benefit structures . a common framework also must be built , so that such programs can be scaled up and implemented in diverse contexts . for example , delivering benefit “ points , ” ” ” ” rather than money denominated in a particular currency , would enable regimes to operate across borders at a time when workers increasingly need to be done to work . and standardized educational credentials would retain value as they move with those that earned them .
on the surface and beneath , brazil has made a dramatic turning point : inflation is down to insignificant levels . ultimately , brazilian policymakers are concerned with their own well , not with foreign investors ’ prosperity . moreover , even without an early correction , brazil will respond to a crisis very differently to mexico ’s . rightly or wrongly , mexican policymakers were in awe of wall street ; brazil has no such hanging . if and when the latter ’s two ends , brazilian policymakers will shed few tears for international investors .
but do n’t despair : there is still time for the us to save its climate . transforming how people acquire and consume power , and then use land will require powerful incentives and policy frameworks to set the course for success . by integrating carbon-mitigation strategies into farming and land conservation , more heat-trapping gases can take over into our forests and soils . but , while techniques already exist , success will require increased reliance on no-till farming operations , adopted the permaculture of the principles , better management of wetlands , and use rotational grazing techniques , among other measures . empowering markets to drive radical shifts in energy and land use is immense ; but , as global storms of 2017 should remind us , a climate emergency we face calls for vigorous , urgent action .
but , after former us president barack obama made his attempts to mend an american health-care catastrophe with halfway measures , arguably the most politically feasible at that time , those vying for the democratic nomination make clear more ambitious schemes . many democratic candidates have called for a major expansion of government-funded health care . but their proposals , a single-payer system ( “ medicare for all ” ) , the us national health service , or something else , do not all of these things . several contenders – including bernie sanders , elizabeth warren , kamala harris , and bill beon o’rourke – disagree completely on the specifics of such regimes or have simply failed to invent them out . warren , meanwhile , proposed introducing universal childcare , to be financed by a wealth tax of skin-house above $ 50 million .
but there is another explanation , one that fits fully with rationality and self-interest . when mainstream politicians lose credibility , it is natural for voters to discount many on the promises that they make . in the language of economists , centrist politicians face a problem of asymmetrical information . they claim to be reformers , but why should voters believe leaders , who appear no differently from the earlier crop of politicians , who have oversold them from globalization and pooh-poohed their grievances ? voters are attracted to anti-establishment credentials and can safely expect to depart from prevailing policies .
today , leaders in rwanda , widely viewed as an african success story , have improved stability by moving away from the washington consensus approach to governance . though kagame remains popular , his government has been widely criticized for stifling free speech and human rights in the run-up to the ballot . the landslide reelection of president paul kagame last year had more to do with power than with democracy . politically , rwanda is strong , disciplined , and organized . the revelation i draw is not that human rights do not matter , but rather that political discipline and imperfect forms of democracy are acceptable when the tradeoff is sustained progress on economic and institutional governance .
the provision of cross-border flows of goods , information , people , and capital that is its lifeblood relies on threshold levels of safety , stability , and predictability . it is this threshold that seems likely to come under threat as well . arguably , g-20 governments are more important than g-20 governments to bolster core systems that enable global flows than they are to address strictly economic issues . moreover , there is a clear , shared interest in doing just that : no one ’s advantage from expanding systemic risk . continued economic progress throughout the developing world and the resurgence of advanced countries require preventing local and regional conflicts from delivering large systemic shocks .
washington , dc – participants in the occupy wall street movement are right to argue that large banks never adequately investigated the mortgage-origination , aggregation , and securitization behavior that were central to the financial crisis , and losing more than eight million jobs . but the run up the banks is also accused of illicit behavior , cautioning people to borrow , for example , by deceiving them on the interest rate that they actually pay , while misrepresenting the resulting mortgage-backed securities to us investors . talks among state officials , the obama administration , and the banks are currently centered on reported abuses in servicing mortgages , foreclosing on homes , and evicting their residents . if those charges turn out to be true , bank executives who have been involved can fear that civil lawsuits were uncover evidence that could be used in criminal prosecution . but , thanks to the efforts of new york chief executive , eric schäuble , and others , serious discussion has begun in the united states about the interest rate that was central to the mortgage settlement between state attorney general generals and prominent financial-sector firms .
“ over rivers and down their highways and along the innumerable jungle path , east pakistan ’s population continues to hemorrhage into india : the never-ending unorganized flow of refugees with few tin kettles , cardboard boxes , and ragged clothes piled onto their heads , bearing their sick children and their mothers . they pad along barefooted , with a mud sucking at their heels in the wet . they keep silent , except for a baby whimpering now and then , but their faces are telling the story . many are the sick and , if they die by the roadside there is nobody to bury them . others have cholera , and as they die by the roadside there is no one to bury them .
at stake is the sputtering franco-german engine , which fueled european integration and kept it at the heart of the post-war multilateral system . charges of currency manipulation , as well as threats of protectionist measures , have started to deepen . with the uk giving way to world free trade in the 181940s , now having opted for it on its own , the ancient atlantic charter allies are putting national sovereignty ahead of global public goods . now the global spotlight is transforming france and its looming us presidential election . a victory for le pen in early may would spell the end of the eu , leaving german chancellor angela merkel as the final pillar of the crumbling world order .
new york – when i was the bright-eyed eighth grader in my homeland , sri lanka , i could not wait for my first-ever sex education class . in our early teens , my classmates , and i had been as curious as we were clueless to their sex and sexuality . yet , instead of receiving just reliable answers to pressing questions about our bodies , relationships , and sexuality , we were simply being given a book , told to read a specific chapter , leaving things out on our own . millions of young people around the world have similar experiences , often with severe side effects . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . after all , both iran and the us have already spent decades in war , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . regardless of how facebook ’s own moral digital-currency moonshot , libra , fares have already provided a wake-up call to firms and policymakers around the world . “ if a revolution does occur , let us rather commit it than undergo it , ” ” ” ” otto von bismarck once
four decades after the “ nixon shock , ” ” ” ” no one disputes that china benefited enormously today , an impoverished , autarkic country that nixon visited is history . global reintegration has turned china into an economic powerhouse . it is the world ’s largest exporter in absolute terms , and it is the world ’s richest economy . as we reflect on china ’s spectacular progress since 1972 , it is also an opportune time to reflect on how china continues its long decline in overcoming the systemic impediments to its long-term success . china ’s presence is felt worldwide , from mining in africa to apple shops in the united states .
america ’s president donald trump ’s trade war has shaken confidence , but that is merely downward shove to an economy that was already slowing as it secures the shift from exports – and investment-led growth to more sustainable domestic consumption-led growth . how much of the chinese economy will slow is an open question ; but , given an inherent contradiction between an ever-more-centralized party-led political system and the desirability of a more decentralized consumer-led economic system , long-term growth could come down quite dramatically . unfortunately , the possibilities for avoiding a consumer-led transition and continued support for exports and real-estate investment do little to inspire , either . china is already the dominant global exporter , and there is neither market space nor the policy tolerance to allow it to maintain its prior pace of export-led expansion . a significant china slowdown may already be unfolding .
the second arab report of human development , issued in 2003 , underscores the close relationship between the arab world ’s educational shortcomings and its lack of democracy . the arab world faces major challenges , one that can be met only with a more flexible , democratic political system . for example , democracy demands an informed citizenry that it is able to question its government . a well-educated citizenry is also essential if it is so that young men and women gain the skills needed to perform the type of job that today ’s globalized , competitive world demands . alas , rather than advancing what we are seeing tends to be a cycle of under-education opportunity that results in inadequate economic opportunity .
the us president threatened to destroy turkey ’s economy if it did what it allowed it to do . with kurds – fleeing turkish bombs , for example , the united nations security council – it remained typically silent while the europeans denounced everything and all involved . as foreign-policy disasters go , this is one for a record-breaking books . but the seeds for this bigger conflagration were being sown long before the now-infamous trump-erdoğan call . absent any coherent policy , the conditions were ripe for a crisis .
it is well documented that europe and the united states have under-invested in infrastructure . but a <UNK> ter-money scheme , when milton friedman proposed it back in 1969 , would also mark a radical departure for policymakers , requiring an abundance of caution against citizen and investor perceptions , confidence , and solid governance structures . and such an approach would advance the notion that a central banker ’s policy is “ the only game in town , ” rewarding elected government leaders of their responsibility for pro-growth policies and the fiscal choices that they control . a less risky and time-tested route to stimulating demand would be a major increase in debt-financed public-sector investment . from a macro perspective , the benefits of from infrastructure investment are a “ twofer ” ; they boost productivity and competitiveness in the long run , and , where unused capacity is available , boosts demand , output , and short-term employment .
and , if all of this were n’t bad enough , india ’s leadership seems unable to recognize the challenges that the railways present . as a result , rail is running out of money before it runs out of plans . with the government losing $ 4.5 trillion each year by subsidizing its passenger fares , it has little money to spend either to support upgrading infrastructure , improve its safety standards , or hastening its trains . in the last 30 years alone , just 317 of the 676 projects , sanctioned by parliament , have been completed , and it is hard to see how the railways will acquire the estimated $ 30 billion needed to fill the remaining 359 projects . in a country where rail travelers may not even expect a clean toilet , much less on-time arrival , prime minister narendra modi talked about imposing bullet trains , the latest in a amid a mixture of irrationally grandiose aspirations .
cities , for their part , often lack the information and resources needed to develop and implement effective policies . under federalism , whether cooperative or “ uncooperative ” patterns , it is often assumed that state and local governments pursue the same goals . in fact , there is a deep divide between left-leaning blue ” cities and right-leaning “ red ” states where many are at the helm . a number of organizations have now emerged to bolster the policy-making capacity of city governments including michael bloomberg ’s administration ’s innovation program , fuse corps , results for america , social finance , a third branch of industry capital , and usafaction . and there are many ways that state governments can thwart progressive federalism at the municipal level .
we need to look beyond such figures to determine who really is responsible for fomenting a political climate , where blatant lies and explicit racism and bigotry have stepped into the mainstream of public discourse . only when we identify the sources of the odious virus now afflicting our democracies can we take practical steps to quarate them . let us start with the “ patient zero ” in this political plagues : rupert murdoch . for decades , this impresario of the right-wing political-entertainment complex has coarsened politics in the uk and the us – not to mention his indigenous australia in terms of profit and political influence . murdoch ’s newspapers and television networks may , just as well , have patented a recipe for deceit , the dog-whistle politics fueling trump ’s rise and the brexit vote .