do the region ’s crises stem from israel ’s lack of peace ? another aspect of the pivot involves a shift away from the middle east . unlike east asia , the middle east remains a region in turmoil , the complexity of which defies an analytical consensus . the middle east will remain the central pillar of the world ’s energy resources for decades to come . but no amount of fancy footwork , whether pivoting or pirouetting , can reduce that region ’s relevance .
with russia and america holding 18,000 of the world ’s current stockpile of 19,000 nuclear weapons , it is proving impossible to persuade any of the other nuclear-armed states to reduce their own ( much smaller ) their arsenals until the big two are making any further drastic cuts to theirs . in fact , china shares russia ’s concerns about america ’s conventional and missile-defense superiority , and is increasing and modernizing its estimated 240-weapon stockpile . with china assuming that course , india – outside the npt , but with 100 weapons of its own – feels the need for its own arsenal . and pakistan then becomes even more determined to try to keep ahead of india . this deterrence logic generates the snowball effect .
two centuries later , that was no longer the case : by the late nineteenth century , the median standard of living in britain and other countries around which the industrial revolution spread was , for the first time in recorded history , light-years above any neo-malthusian benchmark of subsistence . how , exactly , did those accomplishments occur ? after all , what did the small differences that had been proved to matter so much ? the early industrial-era economic scams occurred despite a loss of a substantial share of national income to support a corrupt , decadent , and profligate aristocracy . they occurred despite a tripling of populations , which impose extraordinary malthusian pressures on the economy underlying natural-resource base , and despite the mobilization of an unprecedented share of national income for almost a century of a intensive war against france , a power with more than three times britain ’s population .
the referendum ’s outcome has had little impact on the broader global landscape , and the impact on eu institutions is just another crisis to be managed , not the existential implosion that london-centric british newspapers envisioned . may , who is as tight-lipped as cameron was an open ( if empty ) book , has already created the institutional skeleton of her political strategy . her administration has created the department of international trade to hold political , judicial , and constitutional negotiations with the eu . the referendum ’s outcome has had little impact on the broader global landscape , and the impact on eu institutions is just another crisis to be managed , not the existential implosion that london-centric british newspapers represented . another new cohort , the so-called brexit ministry of state , manages political , judicial , and constitutional negotiations .
venezuela has tried to finance itself with the help of the imf and the china development bank , which does not impose the type of conditionality that the imf bashers dislike . in fact , the chinese have not required venezuela to do anything to increase the likelihood that it regains creditworthiness . instead , the cdb lends secrecy terms , for uses that are unpublicly-undisclosed and corrupt , and with built-in privileges for chinese companies in areas like telecommunications ( huawei ) , appliances ( haier ) , automobiles ( chery ) , and the oil drilling ( ictv ) . whatever the imf ’s faults , the cdb is a embarrassment . they simply continue to demand more oil as collateral ; the cdb is a embarrassment .
moreover , the comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty ( ctbt ) to replace a fragile international moratorium may not have come into force without america ’s senate ratification . one televised advertisement argued it all about the low-rent cynicism of the tea party-driven campaign . it featured two clips of obama saying ; “ i ’ve worked with republican senator dick lugar to pass legislation , ” ” ” ” ; ” it featured two clips of obama ; “ “ i ’ve worked with republican senator dick lugar ” to pass legislation , to secure and destroy some of the world ’s deadliest , unguarded arms ; and it ’s “ what i had gotten off ” to senator dick lugar , a republican , to help lockdown loose nuclear weapons . the context was n’t to be explained , but what obama said in full was that : “ i ’ve worked with republican senator dick lugar to pass a law that will secure and destroy some of the world ’s deadliest , unguarded weapons , ” and it was there , “ what i was to senator dick lugar , a republican , to help lockstep down loose nuclear weapons .
the soviets , with their fragile legitimacy , always fear a betrayal . they have called their crime izmena rodine – the betrayal of the motherland – and married this high moral language to minor transgressions , such as the departure of the country illegally . in the face of world war ii , insecure states are being quicker to sense acts of betrayal . perhaps he imprisons the assisting terrorists , but his betrayal generates little resentment . in their own fragile legitimacy , secure states tend to forget about treason .
like antipsychotic drugs , antidepressant drugs and tranquilizers , ect has an immediate organic effect . but , while ect rarely , if ever does it cause clear clinical evidence of the damage from brain damage , and has not shown to do so in animal studies , the antipsychotic drugs regularly do so , in the likes of tardive dyskinesia and other syndromes . like antipsychotic drugs , ect has an immediate organic effect . but , while ect rarely , if ever so , causes clear clinical evidence of the damage to brain damage and has not proved to be done in animal studies , the antipsychotic drugs regularly do so , in the form of tardive dyskinesia and other syndromes . and , whereas few people are now getting ect involuntarily and , in all cases , consent seek a grand and growing number get antipsychotic drugs under false pretences , including children , vulnerable adults , alzheimer ’s patients , and host for others whose lives are shortened by treatment with no effort to pursue their consent .
new york – trade negotiators in singapore recently failed to finalize an agreement on the long-awaited trans-pacific partnership ; they will soon have another chance to complete what would go to the world ’s largest regional free trade agreement . but , given serious concerns that the tpp will fail to consider important human-rights implications , that is no cause for celebration . whether trade liberalization generally helps or hurts the most vulnerable is a complex question . the tpp talks involve the united states , canada , and the ten other pacific ocean rim countries with a combined annual output of around $ 26 trillion , or some 40 % of global gdp . their economic clout is matched by their ambitions ; talks go far beyond traditional trade issues that account for just five of the $ 29 proposed chapters to consider a wide range of investment and regulatory issues that will influence many millions of people , not always positively .
open education promises to transform the current textbook generation of manufacturing pipelines to a vast dynamic learning ecosystem that is in perpetual state of creation , utilities , reuse , reuse , and improving . and open-learning promises new approaches to collaborative learning that influence social interaction among students and faculty worldwide . the exciting thing about open education is that free access is only the beginning . late last year in cape town , we joined delegates from around the world to build on the consensus to open education ’s ideals and approaches , pledging ourselves to them in cape town to open education declaration , which was formally released on january 22 . open-education promises to bring children with learning materials tailored to their individual needs in stark contrast to today ’s “ off the rack ” materials – combined with accelerated feedback loops that match learning outcomes more directly with content development and improvement .
what , in his view , are the boundaries for us engagement ? almost 70 years ago , when george orwell examined the tendency toward ambiguity , he offered the rather simple explanation that “ “ political speech ” and writing are largely the indefensible defensiveness . in other words , the hazy language is needed to obscure unsavory realities . massive violence against civilian populations is “ pacification , ” ” ” and ethnic cleansing is “ the population transfer . under what conditions would the us be using its capabilities ?
brussels – to many people in the west , china appears to have gone from a country that “ keeps a cool head and keeps a low profile , ” in deng xiaoping ’s formulation , to one that loves a good international bust-up . nor is it reassuring to remember that , up to now , china has been stubbornly watering down sanctions on iran , investing in major offensive military systems , and pillorying western leaders for irresponsible financial policies and protectionism . but the point in reciting this litany of problems is not so much to stress china ’s wayward behavior as to demonstrate the dilemma in which the country finds itself : if it does , say , a “ normal ” power , the world will forget the many hundreds of millions of people that it still needs to wreak out poverty . for its part , the chinese leadership seems to be acknowledging this dilemma , and not actually anxious to draw in fierce competition with the west or its neighbors . putting the australian mining executive behind bars over ten years , squeezing out google , keeping the european union at bay for an important dialogue , and letting a middle level america off the finger at us president barack obama ’s climate summit is not , after all is the best way to convince partners of your own constructive intentions .
the international situation at that time was no less dangerous than it is today . yet we have succeeded in ameliorating it – not just normalizing relations but ending the cold war confrontation itself . if this continues , europe will lose its clout in world affairs , and it has gradually become irrelevant . fortunately , the experience of the 1980s suggests a way forward . this was accomplished mainly through dialogue .
and , as the economists david autor , david dorn , lawrence f. katz , christina patterson , and john van reenen show , american industries with the fastest-growing market concentration have also seen the largest drop in labor ’s share of income . these factors help to explain why the digital economy has given the rise to large firms that are in a reduced need for labor . and , as the economists david autor , david dorn , lawrence f. katz , christina patterson , and john van reenen show , american industries with the fastest-growing market concentration have also seen the largest drop in labor ’s share of income . this heightened market concentration is widening the gap between firms owned by robots ( capital ) and those held by robots ( labor ) . but countering it will require the us to reinvent antitrust in the digital age .
do we owe it to the wisdom of europe ’s political leaders , especially that of the supposedly “ merkozy ” odd couple of merkel and french president nicolas sarkozy ? unfortunately not : progress has resulted almost entirely from strain in much-maligned financial markets . that , in fact , is no cause for celebration ; we all know that . and whom will we need to thank for all of this europeanization ? just as former italian prime minister silvio berlusconi was brought down not by political opponents , but by jittery investors , it was markets , not european leaders , that opened the door to a european fiscal and political union .
forecasts for us economic growth for january 2016 are revised downward significantly . depressed equity markets and falling bond yields worldwide in january 2016 thus illustrate the global nature of the problem that we are facing . as a result , demand remains depressed by the debt overhang that was accumulating in the summer of 2008 . and if multiple currencies all depreciate against the u.s. dollar , the resulting impact on america ’s manufacturing sector could slow the american economy , undermining its import demand and thus hurting the word of us exporters . indeed , this entire pre-2008 debt has not gone away ; it has simply been shifting among sectors and countries .
paris – us president donald trump has shaken the transatlantic alliance , which has long seemed unshakable . in a january interview , he labeled nato “ an obsolete ” ” ” and the european union a “ vehicle for germany . the eu will soon crumble , he predicted , with the succession of countries after the united kingdom ’s exit . with trump , the world becomes accustomed to shocking declarations and shameless reversals . with trump , the world becomes accustomed to shocking declarations and shameless reversals .
those that survived did so only barely , with the greatly reduced output going primarily to the ex-soviet market . russia has the know-how , skilled engineering , and natural-resource base to become a global competitor in a wide range of major high-tech industries , including nuclear energy , commercial aviation , commercial space-enabled hardware and software , ict hardware and software , electric vehicles , high-speed railway , petrochemicals , and heavy equipment for mining and the hydrocarbon sector . all of these industries will benefit from the potential to sustain enormous growth in large markets like china , africa , africa , and india . but achieving long-term growth led by high-tech industries requires a commercial environment that encourages private-sector investment , including openness to foreign players . moreover , the global social and political environment needs to be conducive to a high-tech labor force , provide an attractive quality of life , ensures civil liberties , and fosters entrepreneurship and creativity .
yet , in an environment of low long-term interest rates and deficient short-term aggregate demand ( which implies that there is little risk of crowding out the private sector ) , it is a mistake not to relax fiscal constraints on investment . in fact , the right kinds of public investment would probably spur more private-sector investment . a return to public investment affects the presence or absence of complementary reforms , varying from country to country . of course , the situation is not cut and dried up , either . and there is some potential for abuse , with expenditures being miscategorized as investment .
outside the united states , women have already reached the top echelon of power . in germany , chancellor angela merkel , having won three general elections , is being respected or resented by her austerity policies , rather than her gender . the central issue in these tv programs is not that the main roles that women play in playing for them . character , not gender , drives the narrative . argentina ’s president cristina fernández de kirchner is under assault for mismanaging the economy and america ’s banking interests in forcing debt restructuring on her country ’s creditors , not because she is a woman .
the federal open market committee ( fomc ) , comprising fed governors and presidents from the regional federal reserve banks , has agreed that the federal funds rate would remain at its current near-zero level until the us unemployment rate drops to 6.5 % , and could be expected to stay there or decline even further . with the unemployment rate now at 7.6 % and falling only slowly , the fed might not be prepared to raise the federal funds rate until 2015 . the fed warns that it might raise the federal funds rate if the fed forecast annual inflation rises from its current level of just under 2 % to above 2.5 % . but there are caveats that guide this forward guidance ambiguous , and thus uninformative . bernanke has stressed that the two policies are on separate tracks , and will react to various indicators of the us economy ’s performance .
according to prokhorov , productivity in russia today is just 6-10 % that in the us , which is why the economy struggles even as the oil price , its main export , dries up . and , with housing , health care , and education less accessible now than in the late 1980 ’s , his policy agenda focuses on what should be done to improve russia ’s human capital , the key issue holding back russia ’s economy . russia , prokhorov concludes , is a “ feudal society , ” with putin ’s political monopoly and economic mismanagement exacerbating the so-called “ natural-resource curse ” afflicting many oil-exporting countries . most recently , two million educated professionals have emigrated from russia . according to prokhorov , productivity in russia is just 6-10 % that in the us , which is one reason why an economy struggles even as its oil price , its main export is waning .
what is significant is that the united states ( ideally joined by other countries ) let iran know that any us action to field nuclear weapons after 15 years , though not explicitly precluded by the accord , will not be tolerated . harsh sanctions should , at the first sign , be scrapped that iran is preparing the post-jcpoa breakout ; this , too , is not precluded by the accord . iran should likewise be informed that the us and its allies would pledge a preemptive military strike if it appears to be working again to present the world with a fait accompli . meanwhile , a major effort must be made to assuage iran ’s concerns among its neighbors , several of which are tempted to hedge its bets against iran ’s potential breakout in 15 years by pursuing its own nuclear programs . the world erred in allowing north korea to pass the nuclear-weapons threshold ; it should not make the same mistake again .
short-term exchange-rate movements are , in fact , no way to judge the currency ’s underlying strengths . for starters , the dollar has shot up since the election merely because trump has pledged to unleash deep tax cuts and ramp up spending on decaying infrastructure , and america ’s supposedly “ depleted ” military . this will boost near-term economic growth , and will inevitably push interest rates up . the longer-term trends in how money is used internationally – especially as a store of value for foreign investors or central banks – are far more telling . in the years ahead , rather than just the coming weeks , trump ’s election will almost certainly be bad for greece .
european leaders could easily neutralize may ’s threat of a no-deal brexit , and thus eliminate any need to offer the concessions that they are demanding . to do that , they need to comprehend the method behind may ’s jdening strategy of indecision and delay . throughout her political careers , may has used the procrastination of a winning strategy . as home secretary , she has often won battles against other ministers , simply by refusing to articulate her views , or even appearing at meetings until minutes before a final decision needs to be reached . but that happy outlook for may rests on one crucial assumption : that the march 29 brexit deadline will remain unchanged .
externally , south korea remains highly vulnerable to an escalating north korean nuclear threat . and it ranks 58th on institutional quality , owing to excessively tight government regulations , opaque corporate governance , and political instability . finally , service-sector productivity amounts to just 45 % that of the us manufacturing sector , on average , compared to the oecd average of more than 90 % . in recent months , north korea has fired a series of ballistic missiles and conducted its nuclear test ban , encouraging the exchange of incendiary rhetoric among north korean leader kim jong-un and us president donald trump . the problem is most acute in finance , real estate , business services , and local governments and government services .
second , continued imperialism in near-abroad and chechnya strengthens the reactionary forces confronting liberal democracy . the history of colonialism in western europe and japan , of slavery in the us , shows that , as liberal democratic ideals take root in one society , citizenship rights can not be denied to members ’ colonial subjects or particular groups . as long as russia continues along an imperialist line , its democracy is likely to be at stake . this is not sustainable for a people of smolensk oblast to live under a constitutional democracy , while the citizens of grozny and sukhumi are the victims of wanton shelling and destruction . the political and military elements that lament the demise of the soviet state feed on resources devoted to expanding russian influence in the non-russian republics .
neither the japanese government ’s responsibility for maintaining and continuing a war , nor the inhumane treatment that war prisoners or subject civilian populations suffered under japanese rule , is adequately acknowledged . from the japanese perspective , an `` account of victimization , '' in which `` atomic bombs have become a symbol of a particular type of suffering -- rather like the holocaust for the jews . '' at the hiroshima museum itself , the role of the victim has been exploited in ways that similarly distort memory . whether we identify with the heroes or the victims , with the airplane pilots who put the end of wwii , or with the passive population approaching the infertile of atomic annihilation , we are always rooting for the `` innocents '' and `` good guys . '' from the hiroshima museum itself , the victim 's role has been exploited in ways that similarly distort memory .
accountability mechanisms must be established , allowing the victims to hold governments accountable for their failure to take action . the intended beneficiaries of such actions should be defined as rights-holders . this removes the stigma of charity and blocks victims . instead of helping to do so , because uneveryone ’s needs are granted remedies , because their rights are violated . the framework also should incorporate a requirement of non-discrimination , ensuring that we focus our attention on the most vulnerable groups , not just the well-connected , the literate and the regime ’s constant ites , and not just the groups on which quick triumph can be made .
first , u.s. firms that want to do business in china are obliged to have the chinese partner and to share technology with that firm . that compulsory technology sharing is explicitly forbidden by the world trade organization ’s rules . the most important problem that the us needs to resolve is not america ’s massive bilateral trade deficit with china . it is that the chinese steal us firms ’ technology from the us , and use it to help chinese firms compete against these same firms in china and around the world . the chinese do this in two ways :
but the battle within islam is neither a satisfactory nor sufficient explanation for the state of anarchy that we see in a place like the south sudan , whose 11 million people gained its independence just in the past three years . yet today 1.5 million of its citizens are uprooted , which has nothing to do with islam and all to do with a struggle along the ethnic lines for control of the country ’s resources . though the world ’s newest country emerged from the bitter civil war between christians and muslims , the independence referendum received 99 % of its support . it is ripping countries and regions apart , holding people to travel halfway around the world to join jihad and threatening to unleash more violence against muslims , as well as against christians , jews , and elsewhere . this struggle within islam pits pluralism in the face of purification .
in the us , the troubled asset relief program ( tarp ) – which former president george w. bush signed into law in october 2008 – began out as a program by the us treasury department to buy problematic , mostly mortgage-based assets from financial institutions directly . but that turned out to be a more complicated matter than originally thought , and in a matter of weeks , the us government simply recapitalized us banks in the eu . other bad decisions , as a result , were not as easily reversed . in the us , the troubled asset relief program ( tarp ) that former president george w. bush signed into law in october 2008 began out as a program by which the us treasury department bought problematic , essentially mortgage-based assets from financial institutions . with that one unilateral decision , iran destabilized the rest of europe .
in contrast , it demands a fundamental rethink of business models that will facilitate and even reward hate speech . hate speech and other types of dangerous and illegal content must be attacked at the source . on one hand , an increased media literacy must be raised on the part of consumers that must be taught , from the young age , about the real-world consequences of online hate speech . on the other hand , and this is what netzdg attempts to ensure – and social-media platforms – must ensure that their products are designed in ways that encourage responsible use . but this is no quick fix ; on the contrary , we need a comprehensive fix ; and we can not act .
independently of what we tend to think of britain ’s departure from the eu , we may ask two other questions , one general and one specific to brexit . first , to what extent should the citizens of a democracy make decisions directly , in a referendum , rather than through their elected representatives ? on the general question , the strongest argument for direct democracy is that it follows from the idea of democracy itself , subject only to a feasibility constraint . in earlier times , the small city-states might be direct democracies ; but in the larger ones , once communication was sluggish , it took representatives to decide the many questions that need to be debated and voted upon . and , more precisely , should british legislators weigh themselves against the result of the june 23 referendum ?
aside from the “ undermining ” of every american cybersecurity and the country ’s economic security , ” signers have argued , “ creating new vulnerabilities to weaken encrypted products in the us would also undermine human rights and information security worldwide . ” the american government will not object , given its own policies . a major coalition of technology firms and civil-society organizations has recently sent a letter to president barack obama arguing against his backdoors . they regard a backdoor request in the same way that the automobile manufacturer would view request for a defective engine . what encryption supporters recognize is that “ if american companies retain the capacity to unlock their customers ’ data and equipment on request , governments other than the united states will demand the same level of access and will also be shunted to demand the same capabilities from their home companies .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . kuala lumpur – malaysia ’s year-old government , led by prime minister mahathir mohamad – suddenly finds itself mired in a policy scandal following the online circulation of a sex-video involving a cabinet minister and another people . weaponized sodomy charges are nothing new in malaysia , twice resulting in imprisonment for people ’s justice party leader , anwar ibrahim . unfortunately , the latest drama , like those that preceded it , risks obscuring more fundamental problems .
but is politics really setting the page on its traditional left-right cleavage ? in fact , macron has taken a leap into the unknown to the west ’s “ new politics , ” ” ” ” terrain no longer defined fully by competition among the large center-right and center-left parties . at a time of much hand-wringing over liberalism ’s decline , the future of social democracy , the rise of nationalism , and the backlash against globalization , macron ’s unapologetically internationalist stance is notable . at the same time , macron has signaled that he is pursuing a pan-european campaign for the 2019 european parliament election . like a democrat , he is convinced that europe ’s deepening must go hand in hand with the evolution of a genuinely european political space .
london – most pundits agree that the least wrong way to deal with north korea ’s nuclear saber rattling is a continued combination of tight containment and aggressive diplomacy . fewer have yet to recognize that the least bad military option , the one implied by us president donald trump ’s insistence that china take responsibility for its dangerous neighbor is a chinese invasion , or regime change enforced through china ’s threat to launch one . that outcome , which would sharply shift east asia ’s strategic balance in favor of china , is not as unlikely as most people think possible . in trumpian terms , this represents a “ china first ” choice that could help “ make china great again . ” in fact , its very plausibility is one reason why it must be taken seriously , including by china ’s military planners .
spiekermann , the global authority for trafficking of us online identities for the purposes of targeted advertising , political propaganda , public and private supervision , or other nefarious purposes , stresses the need to crack down on “ personal data markets . ” “ ever since the world economic forum began discussing personal data as a new asset class in 2011 , ” ” ” she told me , “ personal data markets have prospered on the idea that personal data might be the ‘ new oil ’ of the digital economy in the same way – as it now looks – of politics . as a result , “ more than one thousand firms now participate in the digital information value chain that harvests data from any online business and delivers targeted content to online or mobile users within the roughly 36 seconds of their house entry into the digital domain . ” nor is it “ just facebook and google , apple , or amazon , which harvesting and use us data for any purpose one might think of , ” ” ” spiekermann says . “’s ‘ data management platforms ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ such as those operated by acxiom or oracle bluekai possess thousands of personal attributes and socio-psychological profiles of hundreds of hundreds of millions of its users .
it gives poor access to a wider variety of commodities , while giving firms a more diversified selection of the inputs . but increased trade can also eliminate low-skill factory jobs and reduce agricultural prices – outcomes that disproportionately harm the poor . given the constraints of cross-sectoral labor mobility – stemming from skill acquisition and rigid labor-market regulations – perhaps the poorest workers have few options when such transitions occur . in india , for example , poverty has declined more slowly in regions where farmers face increased foreign competition . as a result , increased trade can demand difficult adjustment in the short run .
for kenya , the nation ’s very public decline has come at a high cost . but it has also shown that press freedom means far more than letting journalists do what they want when they want and how they want . and yet , just when a country ’s democratic institutions might most benefit from such a mirror , those who have historically held it up now believe that they have no alternative but to put it down . in doing so , kenyans need similar means of reflection today . it also means that holding media owners accountable for their contributions .
the us recession of 2001 combined an inventory downturn with an investment downturn . the first is thus over ; the second -- the result of overinvestment by high technology and telecoms , sectors that were so important during the boom of the late l90s -- may last considerably longer . it was merely lowering interest rates did n’t and will not , leading firms to invest more in those industries . the good news -- and the bad ones -- is that the pace of technological change in these sectors was fast enough that much of the machinery could become obsolete well before it was being worn out , or even used , allowing new investment to start faster than it otherwise would . still , there remains a considerable capacity overhang -- such as the fiber 's optic lines , which remains murky , have yet to see any light pass through them .
once the bureaucracy and the broad parameters for talks are established by early next year , may will formally launch the withdrawal process by invoking article 50 of the treaty of lisbon . two years of negotiations ( longer if the eu approves ) will follow . by that time , the next general election will not be far off , providing a second stamp of approval for brexit . by that point , the next general election will not be far off , providing a second stamp of approval for brexit . the three brexiteers , after fighting one another like rats in sack , will have had to come up with a package .
warsaw – in paris , west berlin , london , italy , and rome , the spring of 1968 was marked by student protests against the vietnam war . young poles took to the streets of warsaw not to chanting “ ho , ho , ho , ho chi minh ” in solidarity with the viet cong , but rather to stand up to defend their own country ’s freedom and culture against smothering communist rule . instead of chanting ho ’s name , young poles shot dead under the monument of adam mickiewicz , a nineteenth-century poet whose drama forefathers eve , written in praise of the struggle for freedom , had recently been declared subversive and anti-soviet , and its performance at the national theater in warsaw closed down . these are only a handful of distinctions between west and east european students in the springtime of forty years ago . these are only a few of the differences between west and east european students in the springtime of forty years ago .
crucially , the figures are comparable across a large set of the middle – as well as in low-income countries , as well as with the data that are available for the advanced countries as well . preliminary conclusions emerging from these studies will illuminate political debates , and possibly annoy ideologues of both the right and the left . consider the gini coefficient , the most common measure of inequality that runs from the value of zero to perfect equality for perfect inequality ( one person receives all of the income ) . beginning with lustig , the most recent paper argues , with no rise in global income inequality . average gini score ( rather than weighted population ) in countries for which there is evidence , on the 2000-2010 trend , declined slightly , from 39 to 38 .
likewise , while policies encouraging firms to raise wages will raise household incomes and domestic consumption , raising wages can erode the competitiveness of exports and choke off inflows of foreign direct investment . the final piece of the puzzle for china is realism . as it stands , the chinese government is keen to maintain a decent growth rate of about 7 % annually , while pushing for rebalancing and reform . as it stands , the chinese government is keen to maintain a decent growth of some 7 % annually , while pushing for rebalancing and reform . the risk is that until reform measures take effect , the authorities can rely on a short-term stimulus to fulfill their growth objectives , aggravating resource misallocation , and structural vulnerability .
and , by closing off such a prominent us-supported institution , he can send a message that no one who oppose him has won . in fact , despots throughout history have used the same tactics . it is worth recalling that , to join the eu , hungary had to fulfill stringent accession criteria , including credible democratic institutions and adherence to the rule of law . but orbán does so in the eu in 2017 . the fact that those high standards are being systematically dented has introduced a paradox for the eu .
soros : the ecb is a well-functioning institution . so long as it acts within its power , germany does not find itself in a position to veto it . question : does one believe that the current economic crisis is possibly the final step in a general philosophical crisis in the west ? soros : i discussed this in 2000 in my book the crisis of global capitalism . this is why i am hopeful that something really significant might emerge from the deliberations currently taking place behind closed doors .
moreover , it is not as though a flat capital-gains tax will impede social mobility or improve poverty reduction . indeed , since sweden adopted the same tax system in 1991 , its average annual rate of increase in productivity growth has increased by a factor of four . social mobility in france has experienced no major change since 1991 . by moving away from the universal eligibility system at the university level to one that finds more suitable fit for all post-high school students , france stands to reap the benefits of greater genuine equality and greater social mobility . macron ’s revolution , for his part , is on the move ; it is far from clear that the country is on the sidelines .
aside from individual firms , every value chains that contribute heavily to a country ’s gdp have suffered a sudden operational and financial freeze . but , while many observers have focused on scandals ’ short-term political and economic fallout , it is worth recalling what brazil stands to gain by exposing corruption and punishing offenders . reforming the relationship between brazil ’s public and private sectors can improve the country ’s long-term economic performance . reforming the relationship between brazil ’s public and private sectors can improve the country ’s long-term economic performance . there is now a widespread perception that those who engage in illicit dealings have a higher probability of being caught and punished , regardless of their societal status .
yet , even in the new member states , enthusiasm for a european family of democracies is cooling . as the union races ahead , it seems that it has already lost europe ’s citizens along the way . apparently , many are turning its backs on the entire project . they are not feeling part of a great whole . they have trouble seeing what sort of europe is common .
these include trump ’s former national security adviser , michael flynn , who lied about his conversations with the russian ambassador during the transition ( presumably about the lifting of the sanctions imposed by us president barack obama on russian businesses ) . another prominent escapee from trump ’s special counsel , jared kushner , who is widely believed to have taken advantage of his white house role , especially in us foreign policy ( in which he got the us experience ) , to participate in his own family ’s need to pay off its huge real-estate debt . these include trump ’s former national security adviser , michael flynn , who lied about his conversations with russia ’s ambassador to the russian during the transition ( presumably about the lifting of the sanctions imposed by us president barack obama on russian businesses ) . trump himself remains vulnerable to investigations launched , or handed over to federal and state prosecutors outside of washington . another prominent escapee from trump ’s special counsel , jared kushner , who is widely believed to have taken advantage of his white house role , especially on foreign policy ( in which he had no experience ) to participate in his family ’s need of funds to pay off an enormous real-estate debt .
in fact , the us and its allies simply do n’t like the results of an arab democracy , which all too often produces governments that are nationalist , anti-israel , islamist , and dangerous consequences for america ’s oil interests . when the ballots go in that direction , the us simply ignores the election results ( as it did in 2006 , for example , when hamas won a large majority of the popular vote in gaza ) . backroom dealings , and the violence continue to rule the day . the us can not stem from the spiral of violence in the middle east . pundits argue that the arabs can not manage the region ’s democracy ; indeed , they can not .
cambridge : after a squandered decade , the world is wrestling with an aids pandemic sweeping through the world ’s poorest countries , particularly in africa and south-asia . whereas first identified in the americas in the early 1980s , aids is now concentrated in poor countries : 25 million people suffer from it in africa ; 6 million more in asia . in parts of southern africa , more than 20 % of adults live with the hiv virus that causes aids ; virtually all are marked for early deaths . in parts of southern africa , more than 20 % of adults live with the hiv virus that causes aids ; virtually all are marked for early deaths . the pandemic relief has claimed 19 million lives and created 13 million orphans .
the oceans belong to everyone but close to the landmasses , managed in a similar way to a country ’s land-bound borders . the oceans belong to everyone but close to the landmasses , managed in a similar way to a country ’s land-bound borders . as a result , the sky is usually conceptualized in terms of traffic . in most cases , the laws of skies mirror those governing the world ’s oceans . in most cases , the laws of skies mirror those governing the world ’s oceans .
and our current era is not really the fourth industrial revolution ; it is the start of the digital age and the end of the industrial age entirely . in fact , very few other trends pose a bigger threat to global stability . the digital age has introduced new vulnerabilities that hackers , cyber criminals , and other malign actors are already routinely exploiting . almost all societies have become heavily interdependent on the internet , the world ’s most important piece of infrastructure – and the infrastructure on which all other infrastructure relies . the so-called internet of things is a misnomer ; soon enough , it will be the “ internet of everything . ”
the same wto-induced sectoral adjustment underlies the decline of steel and textiles in advanced countries like the us . in china , most soes have survived , owing to central planners emphasizing economic autarky , regardless of the cost . wto membership will also force the government to cease discriminating in favor of the soes and the resistance economic sectors with high levels of private ownership , including agriculture . china ’s industrialization strategy in the pre-reform era rejected the notion of a “ comparative advantage ” – the principle that an economy generates some consumer goods more efficiently than others , owing to factors like natural resources , geography , and climate . jamaica , say , does not produce frozen salmon or hockey players , owing to investment in industries like citrus fruit and tourism delivers far more certain returns .
yet , even before the new government took office , italy ’s cyclically-adjusted fiscal deficit – unlike its underlying debt position – was often rather restrained in comparison with the rest of europe ( canada , france , germany , japan , the united kingdom , and the united states ) . still , the mainstream political parties that governed italy until this year did not deliver the nominal gdp growth that the country needs . as a result , italians elected an unconventional coalition whose agenda combines the populist left ’s policies with those of the populist right . while the league party is promising to slash taxes , the center-left five star movement ( m5s ) pursues some form of basic income . there is also some who believe that italy ’s fiscal and monetary framework has sealed italy into weak nominal gdp growth , possibly too-low inflation and high debt .
for that to happen , governments must deploy both the carrot and the stick . an effective strategy must accomplish two tasks : encouraging investment in unconventional areas and pot of projects and investments that fail to do so . learning what a country is ( or can be ) good at producing poses a key challenge to its economic development . a carrot is needed because there is huge social value in discovering , for example , that cutting flowers or soccer balls , or eating soccer software can be produced at low cost , because that knowledge can orient investment from the rest of the business of entrepreneurs . encouraging foreign investment or liberalizing everything , and then waiting for things to improve , does not work .
combining these conservative assumptions about potential gdp with the cyclical rebound underway – an estimated 1.2 % annual real gdp growth – would produce annual real gdp growth of about 2.6 % , up from the 1.9 % average annual rate that ended in the decade ending in 2009 . but not all of the excess output produced over the next decade will remain in america . the effect of the dollar ’s decline over the coming decade could be equally significant . if the real trade-weighted value of the dollar falls by more than 25 % in the coming decade , and the full effect of the dollar ’s decline in us import prices would reduce america ’s real incomes ’ growth by about 0.4 % annually . if the us trade deficit is to be reduced by a 3 % of gdp from now to the end of the decade , implied by a decline in us exports and a decline in imports , output available for america ’s consumption and investment would shrink by about 0.3 % per year .
the holdouts claimed that , when the new bonds are held in full ( as they are ) , the equal treatment required that holdouts should receive the full amount owed to them ( including not only interest but also principal ) . the us second circuit court of appeals ruled that argentina was bound to honor its obligations to holdout bondholders in a similar proportion ( namely , 100 % ) as holders of us exchange bonds . as a result , argentina would either have to pay the holdouts in full or default on its new bonds . under a court order , argentina might not repay the holders of its new bonds unless it also handed over the holdouts , and no american financial institution could serve as the intermediary to make payments for argentina . it was that the us treasury recently upheld .
zhou bo , a honorary fellow with the pla academy of military science , concedes that “ china ’s mega-projects “ will fundamentally alter the indian ocean ’s political and economic landscape , ” while presenting china as the “ strong yet benevolent ” power . yet china is treading carefully enough that it can continue to advance its objectives without spooking its intended quarry . that matters , because the new asian order will be determined less by developments in east asia , where japan is determined to block china ’s rise , than by events in the indian ocean , in which china is chipping away at india ’s longstanding dominance . to be sure , india is certainly suspicious of china ’s behavior in the future . but china has now embarked on a $ 1.4-billion project to build a sprawling , roughly the size of monaco on reclaimed land in colombo , a “ port city ” that will become a major suspend from china ’s nautical “ road . ”
many modi ’s media supporters have already begun to decry a series of policy abdications modi ’s handling of his campaign . indian citizens , who felt that they voted for change , are beginning to wonder if the bjp has simply reprised the upa ’s government ’s policies . yet sharif has been an acknowledged guest at modi ’s inauguration , exchanging gifts with india ’s newly affable leader . and it bolsters the national counterterrorism effort that modi had previously denounced as an assault on indian federalism . the modi government has also adopted the upa-proposed goods and services tax that had stalled on opposition from bjp-ruled states ( including modi ’s gujarat ) .
europe ’s contributions to the middle east have been great . with today ’s emphasis on military action in the so-called “ war on terror , ” ” the need for a conference to discuss security and military affairs , combined with the charter of stability , has become an urgent priority . in all conflicts , human rights rank among the first casualties , and in the middle east , degradation of human dignity has now undone international conventions that have been agreed over several generations . we should look to the helsinki process to show us how to retrieve what was lost . a regional agenda needs to be constructed to help identify priorities , based on a three-pronged strategy that includes energy and water policies , arms control , and debt reduction .
they did whatever could be done to ensure that no meaningful reforms occurred during the crisis , with the insight that post-crisis momentum , momentum for reform would dissipate . who , after all , might have predicted that president-elect clinton would follow in july the american president , who was committed to undermining the multilateral system in all his manifestation ? for example , when the imf correctly suggested , after argentina ’s crisis that a better route to debt restructuring was needed ( an international bankruptcy process ) , america vetoed the initiative . when the oecd proposed an agreement to limit bank secrecy , the bush administration vetoed that initiative , too . with the us having proposed an agreement to limit bank secrecy , the bush administration vetoed that initiative , too .
bangkok – earlier this month , the estimated 100,000 hong kong residents , who gathered in victoria park , should mark the 28th anniversary of china ’s violent repression of pro-democracy protesters in beijing ’s tiananmen square . as the south china morning post noted , the event in hong kong was the only large-scale public commemoration of june 4 , 1989 , authorized on chinese soil . on the surface , little has changed since the united kingdom returned hong kong to china 20 years ago . yet , in reality , china now exercises near total control of hong kong ’s governance . and , to the attendees , hong kong ’s showmanship reflected growing frustration , not only with china ’s leaders , but also with their own .
to select goals and articulate them in a vision , they need not just to solicit the input of their followers , but also to comprehend the context of their choices . and , to be sustainable , a successful vision must also entail effective diagnosis of the situation that the group faces . what plays well with one group might not sit well with another . leaders need to get the question right before proposing answers . and , to be sustainable , a successful vision must also be an effective diagnosis of where the group faces .
sixth , the sanctions are said to weaken targeted governments in the short term . if anything , power becomes more centralized and concentrated as governments increasingly control the supply of strategic commodities given the weaknesses that they cause . finally , sanctions are supposedly effective at containing nuclear proliferation . here , too , their record is demonstrably poor . but , in the process of wrangling over the business and investment climate , economic sanctions take their toll primarily on the private sector .
internally , almost all of these countries had a very clear idea on what they wanted : democracy , freedom , a market economy , and protection from the return of the russian empire . they wanted the west , and their accession to nato and the european union was a logical afterthought . central and eastern europe in the aftermath of 1989 , although a very interesting benchmark for analysts of the arab revolutions , is not a reasonable benchmark , for the region ’s new domestic and foreign order has resulted from changes in external conditions stemming from the collapse of soviet power . internally , almost all of these countries had a very clear idea about what they wanted : democracy , freedom , a market economy , and protection from the return of the russian empire . they wanted the west , and their accession to nato and the european union was a logical next step .
new haven – by now , it is ’s an all-too-familiar drill . after an extended period of extraordinary monetary accommodation , the u.s. federal reserve has embarked on a long march toward normalization . it has now taken the first step toward reversing its interest-rate policy – the federal funds rate – to a level that imparts neither the stimulus nor restraint in the american economy . in fact , it is a dangerous mistake , but one that is far from it . a majority of financial-market participants applaud this strategy as well .
higher leverage creates macroeconomic risk , not least fiscal balances , when implicit guarantees have to be honored . de gregorio ’s ’s views differ from that of many of his colleagues in other countries on the grounds that he sees clearly the risks in letting banks get bigger and apply what he calls “ smart ” strategies , which demand a lot of leverage . by keeping banks and other private-sector firms at lower debt levels , the vulnerability of shocks diminishes . the danger for central banks stems from the failure of the implicit subsidies afforded to major financial institutions in any given budget . moreover , the build-up of risk within a financial system that accompanies higher leverage is both hard to measure and likely to materialize only after several years ( for example , following the governor ’s term in office ) .
new york – there has been no shortage of scrutiny from what russian president vladimir putin stands for in syria , and why . what we do know is that putin has now decided to come to the aid of bashar al-assad ’s embattled regime . russia ’s bombs and missiles are now raining on the array of armed groups that have been fighting syrian government forces , giving the regime the breathing space that russia ’s intervention was intended to provide . as bad as the assad government is , and as much as it must answer for , that outcome is arguably preferable to a brief mention to the regime ’s collapse . as bad as the assad government is , and as far as it must answer for , that outcome is arguably preferable in the short run to a regime ’s collapse .
using data for 2017 , we find that the number of anti-dumping and countervailing ( anti-subsidy ) cases that take place by all the wto ’s member countries against exporting nations ( a log value that lies on the us exporter ’s vertical axis below ) tends to decline as the income level of an exporter increases ( a log value displayed by a horizontal axis ) . each blue dot on the graph represents a wto member economy , and the robust black line shows the international average ( drawn from all member economies excluding china ) . the data pattern is reasonably clear : as a country becomes richer , there are fewer anti-subsidy or anti-dumping cases against it . this could be because wealthier countries observe rules better , are less likely to draw grievances as their labor costs rise , or some combination of the two . this might be because wealthier countries observe the rules better , are less likely to attract grievances as their labor costs rise or some combination of the two .
most bets benefit britain formally abandoning the eu in march 2019 , but “ temporarily ” remain in the customs union , giving it two or three years to negotiate a final divorce settlement . if the brexit trajectory turns this way , the result will be a spectacular illustration of the dual character – and function – of eu politics . the referendum decision to leave the eu will be honored , but its stark economic consequences will be delayed : a triumph of pragmatism over ideology . john maynard keynes put the matter succinctly : “ “ “ words ought to be little wild for having been assault on thoughts , ” he wrote in 1933 . the brexiteers will be angry with such a “ soft ” exit , but they will probably be enough to secure parliamentary approval .
europeans and americans , israelis and iranians , egyptians and turks , palestinians and turks , palestinians and tunisians rubbed shoulders . nor could have been more tranquil : a former saudi royal castle in the rolling hills of the persian region near frankfurt , where statesmen and policymakers held annual meetings with the middle east . the new situation in iraq , together with the middle east highway map , was at the center of attention . on the opening night , a senior german government minister , himself deeply involved in middle eastern affairs , addressed both subjects , displaying great sensitivity both to israeli and palestinian concerns . the novelty this year was the presence of saudi representatives from post-saddam iraq , including the arab league official from the kurdish regional government , as well as the high representative .
observant muslims gather in sundown for iftar ( breakfast ) , followed by the evening prayers , tawarih ( longer prayers , including briefly sermon ) , social interactions , qiyyam ( another late-night prayer ) , suhur ( another collective food fodder ) , and then morning prayers . the final ten days of ramadan are i ‘ tikaf ( collective seclusion ) , during which worshippers gathering and spend nights in mosques and open spaces . after the sunset , a shared program exists in france . and ramadan – now underway – is mobilization-friendly . last friday , cairo was paralyzed , despite almost-complete lack of coverage by local media outlets .
no country or region can truly aspire to full , broad-based economic growth without pulling along all segments of its population and giving voice to all . as africa ’s leading development-finance institutions move , the african development bank will support our north african members , enhancing governance and institutions , strengthen social-security nets , and lay the foundations for a strong economic recovery . as the us finances infrastructure and other projects in the region , we will strive to integrate our disenfranchised regions and rural areas . as africa ’s leading development-finance institutions , the african development bank ( afdb ) , the african development bank , will encourage our north african members , enhancing governance and institutions , strengthen social-safety nets , and lay the foundations for a strong economic recovery . as the us finances infrastructure and other projects in the region , we will seek to integrate our disenfranchised regions and rural areas .
the property and stock-market contraction will no doubt dampen american household borrowing and demand , potentially triggering a downward spiral . the mounting need for measures to correct global imbalances has been met with disbelief by influential policymakers and market analysts alike : “ why change a victorious formula ? ” the fate of the rest of the world will depend on responses to the unfolding financial turmoil . while the numbers were never as rosy as market enthusiasts seem to have thought , they have diverted attention from the shaky fundamentals of newfound prosperity . even many in the poorest countries appear to have continued to go together at long last , posting robust growth on the back of rising energy and raw material prices , renewed mining investment from abroad , and boosting fiscal revenue .
manila – food shortages are a distant memory for many people in asia . but , as the region struggles to feed and nourish a booming population , they could once again become a painful reality of life . asia is already the world ’s largest food market , and its population is expected to grow to five-billion by 2050 – an increase of more than 900 million people . owing to its expanding middle class , the region will likely account for more than half of the global increase in annual beef and poultry consumption and more than the three quarters of the rise in fish consumption , from now to 2030 . and by that point , more than 60 % of total cereal demand in the developing world will come from south and east asia .
what the u.s. needs is a better explanation for its own people why america should engage more deeply with the middle east 's mounting problems . this is not to say that america should necessarily get involved in every problem . but , whether america engaged or not , it needs policy . syria is a case in point . every pundit around the world , it has metastasized , threatening to become a full-blown regional civil war .
london – cybersecurity is one of the defining challenges of the digital age . the scale of the challenge , then , should not be underestimated . everyone , from households to firms to governments , has a stake in protecting our era ’s most valuable commodity : data . london – cybersecurity is one of the defining challenges of the digital age . with attackers becoming increasingly nimble and innovative , armed with an increasingly diverse array of weapons , cyber-attacks occurring at a faster pace , and with greater sophistication than ever before .
integrating migrants makes a lot sense ; but , again , doing so is desirable to help create sustainable conditions in the troubled countries with the possible generation of emigrants to transfer resources first , and then turn back on each other . in this way , more gps and irelands can be created as the wealth of the already prosperous regions is sustained . this is not the only way forward ; the only way forward may be called . many consequences follow from such home truths about immigration , not least a more rational debate . viewed from perspective such truths provided , europe ’s eastward enlargement is , for example , quite desirable not because it might lead to migration from the new member states to the old one .
the cost is tiny : reaching an estimated 80 % of the world ’s 140 million or so undernourished children would require a commitment of about $ 60 million annually , whereas subsequent economic gains would , in the end , clear $ 1 billion annually . providing iron and iodized salt is another the top investment . we know that iran ’s inequities are leading the way in addressing cognitive and developmental challenges . for $ 286 million we could get iodized salt , and enriched basic food items to more than 80 % of these in dire areas , with benefits estimated to be roughly 9 times that sum . fortifying our products with their iron costs as little as $ 0.12 per year . fortifying their products with iron costs as little as $ 0.12 per person .
many projects , from airports to university campuses , benefit from returns over decades , which implies that weak demand in the short run will have only a limited impact on their overall viability . the largest scope for renewed private investment is in capital-intensive industries where the government has a significant presence like the regulator . even if european countries were to close just 10 % of the percentage of the gdp of capital per worker at the us subsector , the impact could be more than € 360 billion in additional investment , offsetting a € 354 billion gap in private-sector investment from 2007 to 2011 . even among the more near-term projects , some – for example , retrofitting buildings with more energy-efficient features – could become viable with action by policymakers . standardization and liberalization in the european telecoms have underpinned a 9 % growth in value added and productivity during this period , compared to a 6 % average of us growth .
those who believe that it will typically rely on three arguments , all of which requires some qualification . first , they argue that much convergence has already materialized in manufacturing . as a result , the differential between emerging-market and advanced economies ’ growth differential , aggregated from imf data , and include hong kong , singapore , south korea , and taiwan in the emerging group , has declined considerably . the question , then , is whether the growth differential will remain as low as it is today . indeed , after just three percentage points for two decades , and rising to 4.8 percentage points in 2010 , the percentage-point differential fell to about 2.5 percentage points , and is projected to amount to just 1.5 this year .
making matters worse , the sole focus on solidarity means that the eurozone ’s real problems have gone unaddressed . these include high levels of public and private indebtedness , weak institutions , over-regulated markets , and still-incomplete balance-sheet corrections on the part of corporations and banks . under the eurozone ’s latest reforms , the principle that those who assume risk should be liable for doing so has been replaced by a principle of common liability – implying financial transfers on an unprecedented scale – in the event of a crisis . in practice , the proliferation of new safeguards has put high levels of moral hazard and created perverse incentives for governments and market players alike . the current situation in italy should serve as a warning to all of those advocating risk-sharing .
but 2004 was also a bitter setback for russian president vladimir putin , who attempted to bring down his favored presidential nominee , viktor yanukovych , to power in kyiv by endorsing the massive vote of manipulation . then , in 2010 , the orange revolution ’s failure brought yanukovych to power in a free and fair election , selecting putin for a third presidential term in russia . the creation of a new eurasia union was a key part of his platform . the hoped-for break with the past did not materialize , because political infighting among the country ’s new leaders blocked implementation of any serious reform agenda . the hoped-for break with the past did not materialize , because political infighting among the country ’s new leaders blocked implementation of any serious reform agenda .
following the east asia crisis of 1997 , persisting even through the global financial crisis of 1997 . if history repeats itself , now is the time for a third , sudden stop of capital flows to emerging markets . perhaps , if we have some causal theory that could account for such periodicity to international capital flows . following the east asia crisis of 1997 , persisting even through the global financial crisis of 1997 set in . the third “ inflows ” occurred in 2004-2011 , persisting even through the global financial crisis . if history repeats itself , it is
they , in turn , would secure votes for the federal government to assume , and repay the states ’ defaulted debts . hamilton ’s task was both easier and harder than our problem today . despite an overwhelming cost , more than half of the fledgling government ’s expenditures in the early years went to debt service – the us economy shook off the 1980 ’s depression , and entered its growth boom . jefferson and madison did not want the country ’s capital , in the north , and hamilton reluctantly agreed to support moving it to an area carved out from virginia or maryland . a responsive fiscal state emerged from that grand compromise to a crescendo .
a digital id could even establish a means to control data and digital footprints in interconnected online ecosystems . digital id could play a much more expansionary role in the way individuals and institutions interact with one another . digital id could play a much more expansionary role in the way individuals and institutions interact with one another . as we devise in a new report , digital ids have the potential to reduce fraud rates , slashed customer onboarding costs , boost financial inclusion , and deepen the savings and credit for under-banked patrons . they can also spur development by allowing digital talent matching and mitigating worker verification , resulting in higher labor-force participation .
if the revolution continues apace , it disconnects into incompetence , disillusionment , frenzied witch-hunts , and recurrent eruption of violence . but if the revolution is aborted , however , its leaders will be unmasking as empty windbags . the first revolution of 1917 overthrew czar nicholas stern and created a tentative government , which , headed by the socialist leader , alexander kerensky , had turned out to be a transitional blip . but the second revolution , which brought both lenin and the bolsheviks to power , produced a regime that was no less vulnerable to accusations of betrayal . lenin described kerensky as the “ balalaika ” played by an old order to continue to deceive the workers and peasants .
beneath it is the opportunity to devise a unified banking supervisor , merging the functions of currency ’s comptroller , the office of thrift supervision , and regulatory roles of regional feds . this regulatory architecture would leave the fed free to talk openly about developing the financial system as a whole , without worrying about the implications for individual institutions for its diligence . moreover , such a solution would protect the fed ’s crucial autonomy in its monetary-policy role . in a perfect world , one would add to the sovereign banking regulators , but i recognize that at this point i began trample on the cherished features of the american constitution ! for one thing , the crisis demonstrated that we need this kind of simple spoken .
in india , for example , there is fear that small mom-and-pop retailers will be battered when wal-mart enters its market in the coming months . asian policymakers must remember how they successfully developed their manufacturing sector through competition . but policymakers must recognize that there are options for protecting small retailers without stifling competition . the government can , say , impose zoning regulations , help small retailers finding specialized niches in the market , or deliver skills training to displaced workers . the survival of artisanal retailers should not be used as an excuse to introduce or uphold business regulations that ultimately protect the incumbent wealthy .
toulouse , if history punishes those who fail to learn from it , the financial history inuses its punishing with a sadistic twist – it also punishes those who learn from it too enthusiastically . today , ’s crisis is no exception ; nor will the next one . the postwar system of financial regulation was forged on three supposed lessons from the 1930 ’s . first , we believed that the key reason why banks would fail is that depositors panic , not that the main reason depositors panic was that banks were in danger of failing . time and again , the financial crises reflected the vulnerabilities of the regulatory system , founded on lessons learned from earlier crises .
for china , the biggest prize is the bilateral investment treaty ( bit ) . such an agreement would be a near-term boon to xi , because it would represent america ’s confidence vote in china ’s struggling economy . but the prospects for some are uncertain , at best . the us congress is deeply skeptical , and the american business community needs convincing as much as it does . in practical terms , a us-china bit would force chinese entities to invest and operate in the us , and increase american firms ’ access to chinese markets .
this is particularly interesting given that it fundamentally refutes one of the most harrowing scenes from al gore ’s movie an inconvenient truth . in graphic detail , gore demonstrated how 20-foot sea-level rise would inundate much of florida , shanghai , and holland . the report also revealed the improbability of another gore scenario : that global warming might make the gulf stream shut down , turning europe into something of new siberia . the ipcc report makes it clear that exaggerations of this magnitude have no basis in any science , even though they clearly frightened people , and perhaps will win gore ’s academy awards . the ipcc simply and tersely tells us that this scenario , too , depicted vividly depicted in hollywood film the day after tomorrow , is deemed “ very unlikely . ”
it is important to note that china can still reduce the us bilateral trade surplus with any specific partner , even if its overall surplus with the us rises . for starters , lowering the us cost of imports will increase chinese households ’ purchasing power , and their access to products that can improve their quality of life . chinese firms , too , will reap the lower cost of foreign-made components and equipment to boost their global competitiveness , another channel through which lower import barriers can end up undermining us exports . finally , the us international import expo will supplement china ’s other market measures – including lower entry barriers for foreign financial firms – for another period . and even if import expo expands , rather than reduces , a country with a overall trade surplus , it might well have other benefits .
across the west , many are questioning whether russia will continue to exploit natural gas as a means to inject economic and political pressure into ukraine , georgian , and other countries into what the kremlin regards as its “ near abroad . ” putin ’s use of the “ energy weapon , ” however , is not only a tactic : it is at the heart of the prevailing doctrine guiding russia ’s foreign policy . russia ’s policies toward the post-soviet countries rest on the doctrine of the “ liberal empire ” under which russia , ’s large government-owned and private companies , should assume control over key economic actors across the territories of the former soviet republics by acquiring its assets . against this background , the word “ liberal ” should be understood to suggest that the empire of the “ new russian dream ” should be constructed using purely economic means , with the exclusion of all forcible action against other nations . naturally , a key role in this model is given to the post-soviet countries ’ energy supply .
cambridge – the united states congress is fast approaching enacting a major tax reform . yet i believe that the economic benefits resulting from a corporate-tax rate will outweigh the adverse consequences of the mounting debt . the plan ’s most important provision lowers the corporate-tax rate from 35 % to 20 % – from the top among all oecd countries to one of the lowest – and allows us companies to repatriate the gains from their foreign subsidiaries without paying additional us taxes . opponents of the us regulatory commission point to the resulting increase in the federal budget deficit , adding an additional $ 1.5 trillion to us government debt over the next ten years . i dislike the budget deficits and have long warned of their dangerous effects .
but , in today ’s unilateral world , other central banks would soon respond by injecting liquidity , inviting the bank of japan to act once again . to see why , consider the case of japan . japanese policymakers have good reason to strive to promote some of the inflation and even correct some of the yen ’s secular appreciation over the past six or seven years . typically , such actions are justified as policies to boost domestic demand , but they end up fueling a surrogate , low-grade currency war . we need a group of major economies , call it “ g the major ” – which announcements monetary policies in a coordinated fashile .
princeton university economists alan blinder and mark watson confirm this democratic dividend in a recent paper . their starting point is the observation that over the post-world war ii period ( from harry truman to barack obama ) , annualized gdp growth has averaged 4.3 % over the democratic administration , compared to just 2.5 % under republican presidents . if one goes back further , to include herbert hoover and franklin d. roosevelt , the disparity is even bigger . the difference in economic performance under both democratic and republican presidents is consistent and substantive , with disparities conspicuously over a statistical threshold . the results are similar even if one assigns responsibility for the first three months – or for the first few quarters – of a president bush ’s term to his predecessor .
indeed , one of the key opposition leaders , leopoldo lópez , was arrested on the ludicrous charges of inciting crime . it would have been preposterous to tell ukrainian protesters facing government storm troopers to the only grin and bear it without outside solidarity or support . it is just as preposterous to tell venezuelan demonstrators . venezuelans would like nothing better than to be those who will determine their own destiny , but democratic means to do so are being denied to them . terms in office have expired for the prosecutor-general , members of the national election commission and supreme court justices , but no successors have even named , because maduro is reluctant to negotiate with the opposition and lacks the two-thirds majority in the national assembly needed to appoint officials for choosing .
neoclassical socialism is the offspring of a liberal internationalism to say that it is a globalizing creed ; it certainly knows no national frontiers . yet , in the face of large-scale economic crack-ups , internationalism has become precisely the point at play . true , far-left parties have also made advances since a post-crisis slump . but history suggests that nationalists have the most to gain from political and social breakdown episodes . it is easy to see why .
london – “ what if that is ‘ as good as it gathers power ? ’” many are now wondering whether china ’s current growth rate will be as good as it has long to come . determining the validity of such fears will require an understanding of what drives china ’s economic slowdown . jack nicholson asks , as he walking through his psychiatrist at the waiting room at the eponymous film . at the g-20 finance ministers ’ recent meeting in shanghai , participants spent the same question , and not only on the medium-term expectations of weak global growth .
not surprisingly , people are using this technology in ways that indicate they have little interest in being cordoned off into conflicting and competing ethnicities , nation-building , or religious identity . it is a conflict that can be expected to heighten dramatically in 2012 , as protesters ’ agendas – from occupy wall street to occupy moscow – gain the further cohesion . likewise , the internet has disseminated the templates of what a true democracy would look like , inversely , and globally . that agenda is playing out in direct conflict with the interests of global capital and governments , which have grown accustomed to operating without citizen oversight . overwhelmingly , they want simple democracy and economic self-determination .
but the three of the european union ’s four largest economies , france , italy , and the united kingdom , all bear large debts and annual deficits , which point to even higher debt-to-gdp ratios in the future . when interest rates rise , as surely they must , the costs of servicing the debt will require higher taxes , hurting economic incentives , and weakening economic activity . that , in turn , is a worrying prospect for everyone . a rising level of government debt absorbs funds that otherwise would be available to finance productivity-enhancing business investment . firms now worry that rising deficits will drive higher taxes , further discouraging investment .
the economy ’s fastest growing sectors since the late nineteenth century have been those loosely classified as “ services-oriented industries , ” often involving the diffusion of information and amusement – activities in which jews have been especially prominent , from publishing to vaudeville , and movies to commercial sports . they have pioneered new retail institutions , from department stores to box stores . they have also tended to do disproportionately well in learned professions – like medicine , the rule of law , and accounting – that are so central to modern capitalist societies . the fact that jews have long been a minority of subject to discrimination is sometimes given as a reason for their tendency to dedicate themselves to commerce , finance , and professions . yet not all minorities long subject to discrimination necessarily succeed in market-competitive terms .
in order to help scale up the development and finance of sustainable infrastructure in low – and middle-income economies , we propose a new , holistic framework , developed by the one planet lab working group on financing sustainable infrastructure , of which one of us ( an déséglise ) is a member . the framework , called the vision for a environmentally responsible transition – vert-infra infrastructure ( vert-infra ) – aims to help unlock the project pipeline and develop sustainable infrastructure as the asset class , thereby opening the doors to large-scale investment by institutional investors worldwide . until now , sustainable infrastructure has been financed mostly by multilateral and national development banks ( mdbs and ndbs ) . crowding in private capital will thus be key to closing the investment gap . vert-infra initially covers four sub-sectors of sustainable infrastructure : power , energy storage , transportation , and buildings , with a special emphasis on projects in urban areas .
today , after the world financial and economic crisis ( and in sharp contrast to 2001 ) , america appears crucially weakened . moreover , the new superpowers with their own interests – namely , china and india – have come onto the international stage . without the support of china and india , american middle east policies can no longer succeed , but such support is given only half-heartedly , if at all . amid this muddled knot of regional wars , crises , and conflicts , iran ’s nuclear ambitions look like a ticking time bomb , and a huge new dynamite is entering the region . a success for american policy in this region holds very limited interests in beijing and new delhi , and europeans are neither willing nor able to contribute to substantial us support .
skeptics keep arguing that competition and technology wreak havoc on society ’s harmony ; that it generates inequality and the eviscerate the middle class . true , the new economy is harder for those sitting on its back sides and living at the expense of stockholders or taxpayers . yet this in the us is no longer the american story , and it is not yet . creative destruction ( intensified by economic openness and technology ) is sweeping the world . true , the new economy is hard for those sitting on its back and living at the expense of stockholders or taxpayers .
indeed , even mammogram ( almost 40 million are given annually in the us ) shows that detects a cancer do not necessarily save more . the next step in reevaluation of cancer screening took the us late last year , when researchers at the dartmouth medical policy announced that the costs of cancer-cancer screening had often been minimized , and that the benefits had been greatly exaggerated . the dartmouth researchers found that , of the estimated 138,000 breast cancers detected annually in the us , the test did not help 120,000-134,000 of afflicted women . either cancers were growing so slowly that they pose no problem , or they would be treated successfully if detected clinically later ( or were so aggressive that little could be done ) . chest x-rays of lung cancer and pap tests for cervical cancer acquired a similar , albeit less ending , criticism .
sub-saharan africa – persistently the poorest region – will be the main engine of demographic growth . providing contraception for an estimated 215 million women worldwide , a large share of them in africa that wants to avoid a pregnancy , will cost some $ 3.6 billion annually . a new study argues that there is now an additional 70 % chance that the world ’s population will not peak this century , with an additional 80 % chance that it will reach 9.6-12.3 billion people by 2100 . this is important , because a rising population may be an even larger problem than previously thought . fortunately , there is a cost-effective way to slow this growth engine : improving female access to modern contraception .
unlike the mexican , china , or the russian revolutions , economic disenfranchisement is not driving the current conflict . state-owned enterprises should also be free to offer , but they should receive little favors . and , unlike the mexican , chinese , or the russian revolutions , economic disenfranchisement is not driving the current conflict . the underlying causes are political , sectarian , and personal . this is a power struggle , not economic justice or a globalized life .
this was true even during the cold war , and remains true today , yet mccain appears unwilling to recognize it . on russia since his georgian invasion , obama , and his running mate , joe biden ( who was the first member of the us congress to visit georgia after the invasion ) , have emphasize helping georgia rebuild its economy and maintain its independence in the face of a continuing russian campaign against it . mccain , by contrast , wants to punish russia by actions like expelling it from the g-8 . such measures might ultimately be essential , but they wo n’t help georgian survive as an independent democracy . moreover , even after the outrage in georgian outrage arises from issues of common interest such as energy , climate change , and iran , on which the west and the kremlin must work .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime ; but it does not all-out war . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . and that shift would happen at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere around the world . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
the south ( aden ) and the east ( hadramaut ) are both on a trajectory toward independence , dragging yemen toward a different secession struggle almost 25 years after the country ’s fragile reunification . in libya , the collapse of colonel muammar el-qaddafi ’s regime threw the country into chaos and decimated central-government authority . the southern ( aden ) and the east ( hadramaut ) are both on a trajectory toward independence , dragging yemen toward another secession struggle almost 25 years after the country ’s fragile reunification . in yemen , meanwhile , the possibility of adequate central authority seems to be slipping away as the country confronts several seemingly intractable problems – from internal divisions and separatist movements to al qaeda ’s franchise in the arabian peninsula and a faltering economy . the southern remains lawlessness , while the east dominates in the benghazi regional council ; only the west remains subject to a poorly consolidated government in tripoli .
london – in the aftermath of the 2008 global financial crisis , a consensus emerged that the public sector had a responsibility to intervene to bail out systemically important banks and spur economic growth . but that consensus proved to be the short-lived , and soon the public sector ’s economic interventions came to be viewed as the root cause of the crisis , and thus needed a reversal of it . in europe , in particular , governments were lambasted for their high debts , even when private debt , not public borrowing , caused the bust . many were then instructed to introduce austerity , rather than to stimulate growth with counter-cyclical policies . that turned to a very grave mistake , one that we did not know what happened at all .
empowering citizens means giving them both the power to decide and the knowledge they need to make their choices . we must fight excluded from our own political parties just as we struggle exclusion in our societies . that means welcoming migrants and minorities , creating more opportunities for women and disabled people , and mobilizing citizens through education and participation . in pasok , the greek socialist party that i lead , the us firm is far-reaching reform in this direction . likewise , the socialist international ’s goal is a world governed not by free markets but by free people .
in sharp contrast with europe , the united states is emerging as the developed world ’s strongest economy . the us , for its part , has given the european union an important competitive advantage over manufacturing in general and petrochemicals , especially . us banking and the household sector have all made some progress in deleveraging . indeed , the euro , once again , could devalue the eu altogether . so , compared to europe , the united states is emerging as the developed world ’s strongest economy .
even as the chinese felt incensed by foreign interference and domination , many also came to admire america for its democracy , openness , energy , and willingness to extend their assistance . nothing became more tainted to china ’s new nationalists than to the idea of a weak and aggrieved china victimized by foreign exploitation . nothing provoked a more muscular reaction after mao came to power than a humiliating prospect of a feeling unable to resist foreign predation . still , by mid as i first went to china during the cultural revolution , hardly a public surface was unemblazoned with the slogan : “ down with american imperialism and its running dog dogs . ” this divided attitude meant that china had tended to respond in ways as conflicsioned as they had impassioned and unpredictable behavior , especially in the time that its pride was piqued .
third , the us is facing steeply rising prices for the fossil-fuel industry , as emerging-economy growth drives up demand and conventional supplies of coal , oil , and gas . even the much-heralded shale-gas revolution is giving us plenty of hype , similar to the gilets jaunes and stock bubbles of past experience . indeed , shale-gas wells deplete far more rapidly than conventional fields do . and they are environmentally “ dirty ” to boot ; very little , if any , can do . sure , we can find more fossil fuels , but at much higher cost and at much greater environmental risk from industrial spills , waste products , leaks , and other damage .
london – the united kingdom ’s just-concluded general election is a little more than a month , but already a campaign seemed with the us forever , rolling implacably forward , but with little evidence of any genuine agitation – or even major – movement in the polls . support for the two main contenders , the labor party and the country ’s ruling conservative party appears stuck in low-to-mid 30s . the conservatives are hoping that the government ’s track record on the economy will persuade undecided voters to break their favor late in campaigning . perhaps they are right ; they will merit to be . in the meantime , labour seems hoping for who-knows-to turn the tide , while keeping its collective fingers crossed that they will not eviscerated in scotland , where the scottish national party is threatening to sweep the eu board .
the second insight from psychological research summarized by bruce hood in his recent book the self illusion concerns the role of consciousness in decision-making . former us president george w. bush , for example , might have opted to invade iraq and topple saddam hussein for a multitude of reasons : strategic gains , humanitarian concern , and even competition with his father . is this really an american tradition not to look after what happens to others ? is it really an american tradition not to look after what happens to others ? in fact , recent laboratory research shows that our conscious thoughts devise , ex mail , compelling wales on the many decisions our brains tend to make unconsciously .
fiscal restraint , as reflected in low government consumption relative to income growth , also matters . protecting property rights , civil and political liberties , protections for random violence are among other important factors in promoting economic growth . other factors other factors other than trade policy also matter . geographic location also matters , because things like distance from markets , poor climates , and poor soil inhibits economic growth in the developing world . but this makes pursuing open trade policies all the more critical because they are the best tools available to compensate the bad cards that nature sometimes addresses .
durham , north carolina – my day begins with the cup of coffee , ending in a hot chocolate company . in between , i consume a variety of food and medicines , including my daily 81 mg of aspirin . in short , my life , like everyone , is enabled , fed up , and extended by a wide assortment of plants and their derivatives . a brightly colorful orchid enlivens my study and , through the window , seized a glimpse of my green garden . but the biodiversity on which the us all depends depends is under threat , owing to human activity devastates ’ forests and other plant-rich habitats .
ramallah – israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu ’s decision to approve new jewish settlements on the eve of a possible settlement freeze is the latest round in a cycle that has seen so many times over the past 40 years that it would seem mundane , had it never been so dangerous . the cycle goes about something like this : american or international pressure mounts to halt settlement activities in the occupied territories . israeli settlers and their supporters then assemble even more energy to expand onto more palestinian land , build more exclusively jewish settlements , and destroy more arab homes in the face of so-called “ freeze ” ” comes in effect . the peace process , not surprisingly , becomes a joke at the same time that this will happen . in the end , there is the world ’s pressure subsides , and the us can not materialize .
san francisco – there is a big difference between the us federal reserve ’s mandate to keep its prices stable – as enunciated in the us federal reserve act – and the fed itself has its self-selected target of 2 % annual inflation . the term “ stable prices ” is self-explanatory power : a bundle of goods will cost the same ten , $ 50 , or even a hundred years from now . after 100 years , that price tag will be a whopping $ 724 . by contrast , if a country experiences 2 % inflation over a ten-year period , the same items that $ 100 could buy today will cost about $ 122 , at the end of the decade ’s . so , how , then , is policymakers ’ ability to replace the latter for the former ? after 100 years , that price tag will be a whopping $ 724 .
skills-biased immigration delivers a similar dilemma . many in europe argue that this approach not only discriminates against the weakest group of migrants , but also leads to a brain drain from the countries in need of highly skilled workers . with vehemently anti-immigrant political forces gaining ground throughout europe , one must ask whether newcomers are desperate for a job serve by being admitted to a conditional basis ( including , potentially , a limited period ) or not admitted at all . but , again , one must scrutinize the trade-off . skills-biased immigration gives rise to a similar dilemma . with vehemently anti-immigrant political forces gaining ground throughout europe , one has to ask whether newcomers desperate for the job are better served by being admitted on a conditional basis ( including , potentially , for a limited period ) or not accepted at all .
we must recognize this and understand that it emerges not only when a public has become apathetic or frightened , but also when an obvious stable advanced guard , such as a powerful political parties that elect and control leaders . instead , the reforms have been decreed from high above , with no grassroots support – and thus with no lasting durability . such a direct method is the wellspring of authoritarianism . as a result , russia now faces a situation in which president-elect trump is the only political issue . all of us had been direct appeals to the street , and the masses , rather than urging a genuine social consensus . as a result , such a direct method is the wellspring of authoritarianism .
to be sure , a youth unemployment ratio of 13 % or 19 % reflects no preconditions for complacency . but , while the eurozone ’s youth unemployment rate has soared since 2009 , its gdp ratio has remained the same ( albeit both significantly above pre-2008 levels ) . during the uk student protests in 2006 , france , which experienced 22 % youth unemployment , first appeared comparing unfavorably to rates of 11 % , 12 % , and 13 % in the united kingdom , the us , spain , and germany , respectively . and italy ’s 20.8 % rate far exceeds its 8.7 % ratio . likewise , greece ’s reported gdp is 49.3 % , but its ratio is only about 13 % .
but there is a third possibility : global demand for america ’s reserve assets may subside . reserve status for the sdr is a long-held imf ambition , though the idea has never gained much traction . alternatively , china might end up becoming a new net supplier of reserve assets . such a connectivity could come straight to the extent that the renminbi acquires reserve-currency status ; or an indirect if the international monetary fund ’s unit of account makes special drawing rights , special drawing rights becomes a favored reserve managers ’ asset , because the renminbi is now in the sdr basket . in this scenario , the money supply would align with the world ’s fast-growing regions .
with america ’s economy already operating at close to full capacity ( unemployment stands at less than 5 % ) , higher imports , and a stronger u.s. dollar , that will be necessary to meet that demand . with america ’s economy already operating at close to full capacity ( unemployment is less than 5 % ) , increased imports , and a stronger u.s. dollar , that demand will be needed . all of this will be good for a eurozone for which the u.s. remains a leading export market . trump has committed to implementing sweeping tax cuts , including a cut in the corporate-tax rate from 35 % to 15 % . add to that plans to subsidize us infrastructure investment and boost us military spending , and he appears likely to face rapidly rising fiscal deficits and huge short-term demand increases . but it is the peripheral countries that will most likely benefit the most .
princeton – for the past century , economic-policy debate has cloiled itself in orbit around the respective roles and virtues of both the state and the market . does the us market control the state , in the sense that it sets limits on governments ’ ability to borrow ? or does the state take charge when a market fails to perform socially necessary functions – like fighting wars or maintaining full employment ? the same question is dividing american politics in the lead-up to november ’s presidential and congressional elections . this old debate is at the heart of today ’s profound divisions over how europe should respond to its sovereign-debt crisis .
british negotiators then react to eu negotiators ’ domino-theory by seeking to make the process as painful for the rest of the eu . indeed , the uk ’s “ leave ” constituency already firmly believes that the uk would be better off on its own , and that brexit hurts europeans far more than it hurts britons . this means that the leave camp has a powerful incentive to fulfill its own prophecy . the second doom loop applies to the uk ’s domestic political economy . britain can not simply start beating the europeans at their own game by revitalizing its automobile industry or by making its own wine to rival french and italian producers .
alternatively , the shortfall in domestic demand would reassert itself once the stimulus ended . when deleveraging in the household sector complete , domestic spending can rebound , but the savings rate will not and should not return to zero . the excessive domestic demand underpinning this evolution is now gone , permanently . in the form of backloading deficit-reduction efforts , a fiscal stimulus might help tide the economy over while its structural adjustment and broadening competitiveness in the tradable sector proceed . but , by itself , such a stimulus is not the answer , either .
for president putin , this makes sense to stay on the sidelines over iraq , at least for now , and be repaid later because of his helpful silence in the form of america 's influence over america 's successor regime concerning the repayment of russia 's russian debts . so the american objective of regime change in baghdad may not look too bad , even if it can not publicly support one . the contrast between russia 's manipulation of iraq and iran underlines not only putin 's famous pragmatism , but the sophistication and adroitness of his policies . this contrast also reflects a vital difference between iran , an historic nation state , and the artificial creation upon which iraq is . if america 's war in iraq fail , the situation will hardly look worse than it is now from its narrow perspective on russian interests today , while the resulting mess will pose to america 's and its traditional allies than to russia .
indeed , throughout the decade of yugoslavia ’s wars , serbia ’s attitude toward its minorities reflected a nationalist consensus in which the bulk of what was then an opposition took part . kosovo ’s skepticism about serbia ’s democratic credentials comes largely from knowing that a conflict between kosovo and serbia is structural , not based on one . no matter how badly milosevic exacerbated the tensions , his policies toward kosovo ’s ethnic albanians have been genuinely popular among serbs . so far , president kostunica ’s refusal even to discuss imposing an internationally indicted war criminals on trial is no hopeful serbs here . the majority of the kosovars to find talks to serbia concerning improved relations difficult when serbia does not undergo some kind of “ de-nazification ” process .
in the end , economic sanctions compelled qaddafi to distance himself from international terror and turn over megrahi – like another suspected lamin fhima that had later acquitted itself – to confront the “ scottish tribunal ” at the camp zeist in holland . but there has never been any conclusive evidence that megrahi was implicated in the lockerbie bombing . in fact , most experts still believe that he was convicted of using sham evidence and that the cia bribed witnesses . moreover , libya has formally accepted responsibility for the bombing , agreeing to pay more than $ 2 billion to victims ’ families and to abandon its weapons of mass destruction program . yet , despite qaddafi ’s hope for a warmer embrace from western leaders ( and a flood of investments ) , the relationship has remained mired in mutual suspicion and frequent backsliding .
that experience has motivated it to establish its dangote academy , a center for talent development that aims to help fill the industrial-skills gap in nigeria and beyond . by 2040 , africa will have 1.1 billion working-age citizens , more than either india or china today . with the right schooling , skills , and job opportunities in place , this immense workforce could deliver quick , sustainable economic growth across the region . without them , the continent has far more to experience rising unemployment , widening inequality , social disorder , and eventually conflict and chaos . such initiatives are crucial to aligning education with economic development – and enhancing prosperity .
in afghanistan , violence against women persists , for a number of reasons . first , the country has inherited a patriarchal tribal tradition that presupposes female inferiority . second , there is a strong political incentive to deprive women of their rights . first , the country inherited a patriarchal tribal tradition that presupposes female inferiority . as a result , women are deprived of their basic rights and freedoms in the country .
during greece ’s accession to the eurozone , from 1994 to 2001 , its economy stabilized . both inflation and the fiscal deficit fell fast ; firms and consumers became more confident ; investment picked up ; and the government imposed an ambitious liberalizing reforms package . but entering europe ’s economic and monetary union was intended to induce the political system to pursue longer-term goals , like productivity growth and enhanced competitiveness . initially , events played out as planned . annual gdp growth jumped from -1.6 % in 1993 to above 4 % in 1997 – and remained around that level until 2007 .
momentum toward a hfo phase-out in the arctic is building . the danish shipowners ’ association , along with the arctic expedigruten , is just two of the players calling for tighter regulations or outright prohibition . for its part , the european parliament has already backed such a move broadly . in january 2017 , ukraine hurtigruten joined the clean arctic alliance to initiate an arctic commitment . other us and european shipping companies have highlighted the need for regulations to maintain a level playing field .
in fact , he is one of the most charismatic and charming leaders i have met ; the other two , former united nations secretary-general kofi annan and former us secretary of state colin powell , also are either african or african-american . and his un gift for motivating peoples was unmatched ; indeed , it outperforms him , with his assassination cementing a powerful legacy . in africa , a big figure has not happened since the death of south african president nelson mandela , who brought together courage , authority , and magnanimity in graceful abundance . john f. kennedy gave him a bit of both . he did one big thing : resolving the cuban missile crisis . he did one big thing : resolving the cuban missile crisis .
sanibel – the restoration of diplomatic relations between cuba and the united states has stripped new prospects for israel ’s economy . some steps , including the dismantling of the american trade embargo , are forbidden by the helms-burton act , adopted by the us congress in 1996 . but restoring cuba ’s membership in the international monetary fund presents a real possibility . cuba was one of the imf ’s 40 original members , and the us expects its government to take office in january . it participated in much of its tentative planning for the 1944 bretton woods conference and has an active delegation there .
moreover , they have the credibility that comes with the lack of a desire to be re-elected , either because their term in office has been limited in front of time , or because they are recognized to prefer a quiet academic life . that goes without saying that academic or technological expertise is neither necessary nor sufficient for government officials ’ success . technocrats can play a useful role as honest brokers when traditional politicians have become disenfranchised or parties deadlocked . indeed , many of my harvard colleagues would make appalling policymakers , owing to a lack of leadership , managerial , or other interpersonal skills . and many excellent political leaders , such as george washington and dwight eisenhower , among us presidents , have not been intellectuals .
following the 2004 indian ocean tsunami , which devastated the 11 countries ’ coastlines , resulting in more than 150,000 deaths , infant injuries , and more than $ 10 billion in damages , the 168 governments agreed on the hyogo framework for action ( hfa ) , a comprehensive ten-year-old plan to reduce disaster risk . decision-makers must recognize that no such thing as a natural disaster ; there is only the catastrophic impact of natural hazards on infrastructure , including work , homes , roads , schools , and hospitals . indeed , failure to address these new economic assets , disaster-related costs will skyrocket in the decades to come . today , massive investment in critical infrastructure , industrial prevalence , and urban development , vital to accommodate an expanding global population , set to reach $ nine billion by 2050 , is being made without adequate regard for disaster risk . in this sense , climate-change predictions should challenge policymakers and business leaders re-calibrate their perceptions of exposure and disaster risk .
in september , nature-based solutions featured prominently at the un climate week in new york city . though that event did not live up to un secretary-general antónio guterres ’s call for “ clear steps ” to enhance nationally determined contributions by 2020 , it did offer the platform for a fresh generation of climate and nature-advocates . two years ago , researchers from the nature conservancy and its associates published new research showcasing nature-based solutions ’ potential to fight climate change . yet natural climate solutions have continued to receive relatively little attention – and even much smaller funding . fortunately , this may be starting to change , with the goal of now .
just a couple of weeks ago , in effect , the us administration was obliged to admit that rouhani is completing his component of the nuclear deal . to ensure that iran continues its path toward international engagement – thereby protecting the nuclear deal that trump is not seeking to defend , rouhani ’s government will need to work hard to improve relations with neighboring countries . moreover , he will need to adopt a more constructive position vis-à-vis the syrian conflict , thereby making it clear that iran does not spearheading the shia liberation movement . but trump will not make it easy for rouhani to do so much . indeed , iranians ’ show of popular support for rouhani provides his best guarantee that the spirit beyond the nuclear deal will remain unchanged .
but the damage done will extend far beyond the suffering of the hundreds of innocent individuals locked in under the false pretenses . the hope that turkey is finally upsetting its authoritarian vestiges and becoming a stable democracy will lie in tatters . ludicrous cases drag on , and more people are being pulled in them . those cases will ultimately collapse beneath the weight of their collective absurdity . but the damage that has been done will extend far beyond the suffering of hundreds of innocent individuals locked in under false pretenses . nor do mainstream independent media report on fear of provoking a government or gülen network .
but russia is unlikely to draw on this kind of emergency credit line in the current crisis . more recently , chinese foreign minister wang yi has pledged assistance to russia . likewise , in july , the brics created a sort of “ contingent reserve arrangement ” that will , it is argued , “ forestall short-term balance of payments pressures , grant reciprocal support , and further strengthening financial stability . ” in short , both western-dominated governance mechanisms and the brics countries ’ fledgling institutions have been turning on russia . but its vagueness language reflected a larger hesitation that will likely persist until the crisis has passed .
from the stymieing medium-term fiscal reforms to delaying needed overhauls in the labor and housing markets , congressional dysfunction would leave us economic performance below its capacity ; over time , it would , too , eat off potential output . in other countries , a vacuous direction will run mainly , from economics to politics . continued congressional polarization would perpetuate policy uncertainty , confound debt and deficit negotiations , and impedes economic growth . they will also try to lower japan , focusing on us exports , and rethink its bid for lower-income countries ’ production facilities . the economic impact of us politics , while important , will be a less dynamic : absent a more collaborative congress , politics will mute policy responses rather than fuel more activism .
paris – riots rampamp down throughout greece may have many causes , but one rarely mentioned is the fracturing of the greek left to george papandreou ’s traditional socialist party , pasok , and increasingly radicalized faction refusing all accommodation with either the european union or the modern economics . to varying degrees , this divide is paralyzing socialist parties across europe . that the traditional left is so inert in the midst of today ’s economic crisis is more than strange , instead of thriving on renewed doubts about capitalism , europe ’s socialist parties have failed to make any serious political inroads . in countries where they hold power , like spain , they are now deeply unpopular . where they are in opposition , as in france and italy , they are in disarray – as is germany ’s social democrats , despite being part of the ruling grand coalition .
the response to 9/11 and dominique strauss-kahn ’s recent encounter with african chambermaid in the new york hotel has little in common except one incident : once again , cultural conflict has been invoked in misleading ways . whatever happened between the international monetary fund ’s former managing director at the time and his accusers , the fact that he was arrested and then paraded before the press as a criminal suspect got much criticism in france . one allegation , made recently by a well-known french publicist view , is that having an arrest was typical of american puritanism . the french , supposedly from some latin culture , have a more liberal understanding of their sexual behavior . they are more tolerant of human frailties and have a more refined appreciation of the art of seduction .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime ; but it does not augur all-out war . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere around the world . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has interested in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
still , caught in the sights of a gun barrel , nobody , or even the courageous men and women who camped for their hundreds of thousands in the snow days before ukraine ’s parliament , knew with certainty whether these change had wrenched ukrainians from the grip of fear and apathy . at the same time , they have reason to be slated for pride . the success of their defiance demonstrates the strength of the idea that bewilders outgoing president leonid kuchma and his acolytes : that democracy means taking responsibility for one ’s fate into one ’s own hands . self-confidence among the governed and prudence among the rulers : these are the psychological springs of democracy and true liberty , and they can never be diverted again in our homeland . nobody ever doubted that ukraine was vastly altered in its twelve years of independence .
while previous prime ministers like menachem begin and yitzhak shamir were not averse to lecturing , they lacked strategic cunning . netanyahu ’s unwillingness to compromise the disconcerts , confuses , and often enrages americans . his relentless trespassing on israel ’s strategic environment , security demands , red lines , and jewish history merely compensates with conciliatory talk about reopening negotiations , which immediately rejects palestinians who , like him , fear of weakness . furthermore , netanyahu ’s unsentimental assessment of the middle east does not line up with that of the obama administration in thrall to its collapsing romanian with moderate islamists – and his devoted supporters among jewish americans . netanyahu ’s unwillingness to compromise the disconcerts , confuses , and often enrages americans . israeli prime ministers are supposedly to come across two broad varieties : heavily accented eastern europe ’s men and grizzled military officers who talk a good game before acquiescing to the latest american or international demands for concessions , talks , and aid .
followers are more likely to attribute charisma to leaders when they feel a strong imperative for change , often in a context of personal , organizational , or social crises . for example , the british public did not respect winston churchill as a charismatic leader in 1939 ; one year later , his vision , trust , and communications skills gave him charisma , given britons ’ anxieties after france ’s fall and its dunkirk evacuation . and then , after a public focus turned from winning the war to constructing a welfare state , churchill was voted out of office . and then , in 1945 , under a public focus turned from winning a war to constructing a welfare state , churchill continued to be voted out of office . his charisma did not predict defeat ; the changed adherents ’ needs did .
at the same time , the administration enacted the eu-wide agreement that , rather than cutting the size of the european commission , ireland would be allowed to hold permanent seats on the commission table . that negotiating success gave the government considerable breathing space in which to conduct a more effective referendum campaign . but the picture is far from clear-cut . opinion polls conducted in recent weeks indicate that the yes side commands a strong majority in both 62 % and 23 % , respectively , with 15 % of the electorate undecided . this negotiating success has given the government considerable breathing space in which to conduct a more effective referendum campaign .
the solution is not to meddle in competition rules , but to give those in charge of security , some say in decision-making . to this end , in a forthcoming paper that i co-authored with foreign-policy experts and other economists , we propose giving the eu high representative for foreign affairs and security guaranteed the right to object on security grounds to the european commission ’s proposed mergers or investment decisions . eu member states already have such practices , and so should the eu . finally , the eu needs to do more to develop its financing toolkit and to promote the international use of europe . a decision to reject mergers or enforce investment that benefits a politically motivated foreign competitor might make economic sense while raising eyebrows in foreign-policy circles .
whereas the west lost no time in imposing sanctions on president vladimir putin ’s russia following his annexation of crimea , it did nothing to punish israel ’s occupation of palestinian lands . in fact , ngos have focused on human rights and peacemaking are scrutinized as foreign agents . for israel , a “ democracy ” has always been a strategic asset , because a democratic israel is a nature fit for the western alliance . still , the more israel embraces the putin-inspired practice , the weaker becomes its connection to its strategic rearguard . the just-passed bill – aimed clearly at israeli arabs ’ interlocutors in the knesset ( parliament ) – would enable mbs to dismiss the state for disloyalty .
sir romano prodi , the eu commission 's president , and italy 's former prime minister , reacted against president bush 's most recent statements by saying that “ if one wants to become a world leader , one must know how to look after the entire earth , and in terms of american industry in general . ” this approach to the duties of a national leader , stated bluntly and candidly , forces the us to contemplate a fundamental ethical issue . to what extent should political leaders see their role narrowly in promoting their citizens ' interests , as well as the way extent to which people 's welfare will be concerned everywhere ? in kosovo , restricting intervention to aerial bombardment has made this strategy a total of success : nato forces suffered not a single casualty in fighting , but the fact that some 300 kosovar , 209 serb , and twelve chinese civilians were killed . yet the issue is not just one for those aspiring to be world leaders .
on both these fronts , the eu ’s lack of a strategic vision has created the impression that europe repeatedly is being out-maneuvered by russian president vladimir putin . indeed , the situation in ukraine represents a tactical victory for russia , with its fragile but enduring ceasefire , as well as its accompanying legislation that grants the donetsk and luhansk sizable political autonomy to enable russia to entrench the conflict near the eu ’s borders . in europe , the kremlin has , after all , been pursuing a successful divide-and-rule strategy , particularly with regard to hungary ’s decision to suspend gas flows to ukraine . increasingly , ukraine seems to be locked in a japanese-dominated conflict ” – russia ’s foreign-policy specialty . moreover , the eu ’s delayed implementation of key elements of the eu ’s association agreement with ukraine is plain proof that now russia dictates the terms of an eu-ukrainian engagement .
with a weak dollar hanging like the sword of damocles over the global economy , nearly all laments america ’s spendthrift habits . but has that ever happened to anybody how hard americans must work to ensure that everyone else should look good ? as was the last time it has taken , that is what happened ? owing to america ’s gaping trade deficits , every developing country ’s finance minister nowadays is attempting to hold its or her country ’s currency from going up too fast against the dollar . chronic debt-crisis countries from mexico to russia to south korea are all fighting out of capital inflows from investors looking for an exit as dollar collapses .
new york – hurricane harvey left in his wake has upended lives and vast amounts of wealth damage , estimated for some at least $ 150-180 billion . it is ironic , of course , that the event so connected to climate change would come at a state that is home to so many climate-change deniers , and where the us economy depends so heavily on the fossil fuels driving global warming . to be sure , no single climate event , however , can directly relate to rising greenhouse gases in the atmosphere . but the bottled-water rains that inundated the texas coast for the better part of one week and a hurricane that draws about to hit south florida , also raises deep questions about the united states ’ economic system and policy . even so , the us rains that inundated texas coast for the better part of one week and a hurricane that is about to hit south florida also raises deep questions about the united states ’ economic system and policy .
the eu was founded on a mechanical idea that interdependence would reduce conflict . rather than banding together , each new challenge has split the eu into an ever-smaller group . with europe divided by the north and the south ; ukraine and the refugee crisis divided east and the west . just as europe divided its north and south ; ukraine and the refugee crisis divided east and west . by aligning europe ’s means of production collectively – first through the european coal and steel community and , later , through the eu ’s common market and europe – the eu hoped to constrain europe ’s states so narrowly that a war between the two would no longer be an option .
in nigeria today , the crucial question nowadays is not whether president olusegun obasanjo will quit after his second ( and final ) term expires next year , but who will succeed him . attempts by obasanjo ’s supporters to persuade the national assembly to amend the constitution in order to allow obasanjo to resume in office beyond the two terms met with a solid wall of opposition . given nigeria ’s history of sit-tight military dictatorships , that is genuine progress is being made . unfortunately , however , it is not necessarily a president who is doing what he should . government and commercial activity practically ground to head off this spring as democracy activists , in alliance with policymakers and legislators opposed a third term , battled obasanjo ’s allies to thwart the proposed bill .
parfit ’s reaction to this line of argument keeps him from making the claim that is perhaps even bolder than his defense of objectivism in ethics . he sees three leading theories about what we find – one deriving from kant , one from rowling ’s social-contract tradition of hobbesian , locke , rousseau , and the contemporary philosophers john rawls and t.m. scanlon – and one from bentham utilitarianism – arguing that kantian and social-contract theories must be revised in order to be defensible . he then argues that these revised theories coincide coincide with a particular form of consequentialism , a theory that is in the same broad family as utilitarianism . if parfit is correct , there is much less disagreement among the apparently conflicting moral theories than what we all believed . defenders of each of these theories are in parfit ’s vivid phrase “ climbing the same mountain on different sides . ”
this is the flip side of blaming corporations for everything from obesity to scalding up coffee – both the subject of lawsuits in recent years . instead of csr , we should have psr ( personal social responsibility ) . but this does not mean that a corporation is the right entity to engage in altruism , even though its different stakeholders probably can recoup any part of the income they earn from the corporation and other sources in altruistic ways . one can also argue for psr on the grounds that asking for csr becomes a way of giving up the buck ” – evading personal responsibility to do good . this is the flip side of blaming corporations for everything from obesity to scalding out coffee – both the subject of lawsuits in recent years .
tokyo – hillary clinton ’s recent trip to asia in may 2019 could one day be seen as the region ’s most significant visit by a united states diplomat since henry kissinger ’s secret mission to beijing in july 1971 . clinton ’s tour produced the clearest signals yet that america is reluctant to embrace china ’s push for regional hegemony . what clinton did , and said during her asian tour , will mark either the end of the era that kissinger initiated four decades ago , or the beginning of a distinct new phase in that epoch . kissinger ’s mission triggered a diplomatic revolution , and he did not have the same reason to believe in the future . renewal of us-chinese relations shifted the global balance of power in the cold war ’s height , preparing the path for china to open its economy – a decision that , more than any other , defined today .
thus , china ’s role is changing : once the west ’s low-cost supplier , it is now becoming major customer for western products . this represents a significant opportunity for the advanced economies to rebalance their trend of growth and employment , provided they are positioned to compete in the appropriate part of evolving supply chains . tech and knowledge will still matter , but , while china needs to start generating new technologies , its growth presupposes a shift to higher-value activities . chinese demand is not only growing ; as incomes rise , its composition is shifting to more sophisticated goods and services . technology and knowledge will still matter , but china needs to start generating new technologies in addition to absorbing western tools and capabilities .
historically , french diplomacy excels at grand bargains . yet , under merkel , germans have avoided such agreements , preferring the status quo or incremental changes , because it typically wound up paying extra . for his part , macron ’s ’s hyper-active diplomacy exposes a post-imperial inferiority complex , symptoms of which – whether brexit or putinism has been impeding europe ’s normalization and hampering the eu ’s mobilization to counterbalance both china and the united states . macron ’s rhetoric suggests that he wants to fight such symptoms in his own way . but his recent actions seem to be reproducing them , too .
that failure is rooted in us electoral politics ’ confinement to individual countries , which forces politicians to pretend that they can address economic issues with national policies on their own . at a time when strong , there is the need for coordinated action to stave off european financial meltdown , the popular support that has driven european integration in the past six decades is waning . at the same time , they fail to grasp that their economies are too closely interconnected to independent economic policies to work . dublin – europe ’s needs , and the europeans ’ aspirations are at odds . after almost 70 years of peace , europeans seem to have forgotten why unity has been so important , indulging nationalist sentiment with respect to its potential consequences .
the skeptics have the point , but they go too far . for one thing , it is still too early to judge the merits of the argument . the last six months have seen national elections in lebanon and local elections in saudi arabia . a full assessment of the war in iraq , and its effects on the middle east , will take ten or more for a decade . clearly , the january 2005 election produced a positive step for the region .
as thomas mann once wrote , “ freedom is more complicated than power . ” it highlights the contrast between initiative and apathy , enterprise and obedience , competition , and total dependence on a state that embodies a kind of shakable destiny . as thomas mann once wrote : “ freedom is more complicated than power . ” in 1989 , the peoples of the region brought with them to their “ return to ” europe ” ” their diversity and richness ; their vivacity , mysteries , mysteries , and memories ; and their old and new aspirations . and they brought a lesson that moves from a closed society to an open one is both feasible and extremely difficult .
cambridge – major tax reform is high on the agenda for the united states in 2017 . the republican-controlled house of representatives has spent years preparing for that , creating detailed plans for overhauling how corporate and personal income is taxed . at the same time , the proposed corporate-tax reform is particularly significant . i believe that it will have a highly favorable impact on business investment , raising productivity , and overall economic growth . now , with a republican majority in the senate and republican president in the white house , those plans can provide the basis for legislative action .
when palme visited east germany in 1984 , he never criticized repression there , nor the berlin wall . instead , palme praised east germany ’s leader , yuriy honecker , who subsumed shared goals and mutual struggle for peace and development . palme ’s main speech mentioned `` détente , '' “ confidence , ” and “ friendship , ” but never “ freedom ” . palme ’s main speech mentioned “ détente , ” “ confidence , ” and “ friendship , ” but never “ freedom ” . this alliance between the two sides led to grave distortions in fundamental western values .
a different sort of revolution took place in europe ’s former colonies in asia , where native peoples had no desire to be ruled as soon as the western powers , which had so ignominiously defeated japan . the un , like its dream of european unity , was also a part of the 1945 consensus . vietnamese , indonesians , filipinos , the burmese , indians and malays wanted their freedom , too . these aspirations were often voiced in the united nations , founded in 1945 . for a short while , many prominent people – albert einstein , for one , had believed that only world government would ensure global peace .
moreover , what little action enacted was aimed at shoring up the financial system . but a financial crisis is just one of a few crises confronting the country : underlying macroeconomic problems were made worse by the sinking fortunes of the bottom half of the population . guided by one of the problem ’s architects , hank paulson , who championed efforts to embrace deregulation and allow banks to take on even more leveraging , is no wonder that the us administration veered from one policy to another , every strategy , supported by an absolute conviction until minutes after it left for another . even if confidence really was all that mattered , the economy was going to shrink . those who would be spending do n’t have the money ; those with money are not spending .
the deeper problem lies with the excessive financialization of the global economy that has occurred in the 1990s . the policy dilemmas that resulted from – rising inequality , more volatility , reduced room for managing the real economy , will continue to be preoccupying policymakers in the decades ahead . amid the foreign-capital bonanza ’s stagnant levels of private investment in tradable goods , officials face a particularly potent dangers signal that no amount of government mythmaking ought to be allowed to override . officials face a straightforward choice : maintain robust prudential controls on capital flows , or are prepared to invest a large fraction of resources in self-insurance by accumulating large foreign reserves . it is true , but unhelpful , to say that governments have only themselves to blame for this wild ride .
even a relatively small amount of material , like cobalt-60 , that is used in radiotherapy , could do serious harm if combined with conventional explosives in the so-called dirty bomb ( or otherwise deliberately used to expose the public to dangerous radiation ) . the proposed amendment would give countries the right to protect nuclear material when it is used or stockpiled , rather than just when it is now being transported internationally , as is the case now . the foreign and energy ministers will have an opportunity to strengthen the global framework for nuclear security when confronted with the united nations conference on nuclear security for nuclear security : enhancing global efforts in vienna on july 1-5 . this will be the first such event that is open for any country . at the top of the agenda should be to ratification of improvements to the crucial nuclear security facility ’s – the sun ’s vention of physical protection for nuclear material .
this time last year , the initiative originated in singh , who invited his pakistani counterpart , prime minister yousuf raza gilani , to visit mohali , near new delhi , to watch both countries are playing the semifinal in a cricket world cup . the match played on march 30 , with pakistan losing narrowly . it was gilani who sat next to singh to watch the game ; but , ultimately , a process , rather than protocol , will determine how bilateral relations move forward . on the political front , however , both countries were not evenly equated . of the troika that currently governs pakistan – the president , the prime minister , and chief of the army ’s staff , it is the prime minister who carries the least amount of authority .
indonesia argues that it should protect a nation ’s right to control all information on locally discovered viruses through the same mechanisms that the united nations food and agriculture organization uses to guarantee poor countries ’ ownership rights and patents on the seeds of its indigenous plant . under the fao seed accord , a nation can register plants , share their seeds , and derive the profits of its resulting product . this useful policy reduces exploitative practices , which sometimes allows multinational corporations and wealthy governments to extract outrageous earnings from indigenous agriculture . it is dangerous folly , however , to extend this policy toward viruses . if the concept of viral sovereignty ” was applied to hiv 25 years ago , we would not have the central repositories of thousands of hiv varieties today ; these allow scientists to test drugs and vaccines against all the different strains of the virus that cause aids . indonesia , for its part , argues that it is in the right to control all information on locally discovered viruses through the same mechanisms that the united nations food and agriculture organization uses to guarantee poor countries ’ ownership rights and patents on the seeds of its indigenous plant .
over the past decade , italy ’s share of global exports has plummeted from 3.9 % to 2.9 % . from 1992 to 2011 , labor productivity grew at an average annual rate of 0.9 % , the lowest in the oecd . the new government ’s biggest challenge will be to implement reforms that enable italy ’s economic performance to catch up to that of its neighbors after years of poor policies and neglect . that , in turn , requires increased investment in innovation and human capital . since 2001 , unit labor costs have been growing more rapidly than real gdp and employment , undermining the economy ’s competitiveness vis-à-vis the developing world .
policy wonks think of themselves as unbiased purveyors of high-quality , evidence-based advice . informed citizens reasonably fearful that a wonk in question may be in thrall to a particular ideology or methodology ; that advice can be politically motivated ; or that advisers can tailor their advisors to their own careers concerns ( how to get that wall street job after having left government , for example ) . but the technical capacity is not the only – or even the main – issue . conflicting motivations are arguably a more important reason why , for citizens , increasingly mistrust experts . there is , in fact , a misconception at work . informed citizens reasonably fear that a wonk in question can be in thrall to a particular ideology or methodology ; that advice can be inherently politically motivated ; or that advisers can tailor their advisors to their own careers ( how to get that wall street ’s job after having left the government , for example ) .
thus , germany appears destined to be stuck in the doldrums for some time . while its exports are booming , its unemployment remains stubbornly high . the price of inaction is considerable . whichever party combination emerges at the top -- and helmut kohl 's governing coalition still needs to be regarded as a narrow favorite -- it enjoys a meager majority , depending on any major initiative around the unlikely support of its political opponents . disillusionment with politics rises , and can even get the right-wing populists whom democratic germany has so far been spared . whichever party combination emerges at its top -- and helmut kohl 's coalition still needs to be treated as a narrow favorite -- it enjoys a meager majority , depending on any major initiative around the unlikely support of its political opponents .
europe ’s position as the world ’s largest trading bloc , with close to 40 % of all transnational commerce and the increasing importance of the euro – crisis notwithstanding – as a buffer currency , means that the eu , just like america ’s , can set the agenda for negotiating the new global rulebook . the difference is that america acts decisively and the eu will not . europe ’s leadership on climate change and development aid could , if well handled , be the foundation of a new moral authority . but there is little sign that governments are taking advantage of this opportunity . europe , of course , occupies the moral high ground that america has mostly vacillated , owing to its mis-adventures in iraq and afghanistan .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere around the world . madrid – having secured a fifth term ( and his fourth in line ) as israel ’s top prime minister , binyamin netanyahu is on a path to surpassing david ben-gurion , the state ’s founding father , as his country ’s longest-serving leader . yet netanyahu ’s israel would hardly seem recognizable to the ben-gurion , who strived to combine the country ’s jewish character with democracy . as liu p. hartley wrote in an go-to opening : “ the past is a foreign country : they are doing things differently there . ”
in many member states , the ecj ’s rulings have generated a backlash , most notably on the left , with a trade union and social movements targeting the court ’s supposed zeal in siding with business over workers ’ interests . in september 2008 , for example , former us president , roman herzog , published the polemic entitled “ to stop the ecj ! ” he accused the luxembourg judges of grabbing ever-greater competences at the detriment of member countries , and urged the constitutional court to invalidate several controversial ecj rulings . herzog ’s ’s ’s ’s broadside resonated in europe , where for a while there has been significant obfuscation over “ judicial activism ” and what some see as an irreversible trend toward the ecj ’s empowerment and other eu institutions . such arguments were deployed successfully during the 2005 referenda on the constitutional treaty in france and the netherlands , as well as in ireland during the lisbon referendum .
moreover , social contracts based on formal long-term employer-employee relationships will have to be overhauled , with benefits like retirement and health care having made them more portable and tailored to evolving occupational arrangements , including the expanding “ gig ” economies . on both of these fronts , france sets a positive example . that means shifting the focus from back-ward-looking labor-market policies that are seeking to protect workers in existing jobs to future-oriented measures like innovative insurance mechanisms and active labor-market policies . here , several proposals have already put forward , including a universal basic income , currently piloted in finland and some subnational jurisdictions like ontario , canada ; a negative income tax ; and various kinds of portable social-security accounts that pool workers ’ benefits . at the same time , countries need to ease workers ’ opportunities to transform jobs through reforms to their labor markets and social-safety nets nets .
as brig. attorney , robert caslen , the pentagon ’s deputy director for the war on terrorism , put it , “ we are not killing them faster than they are being built . ” us military power also influences rumsfeld ’s ratio . the manner in which the us uses military power also affects rumsfeld ’s ratio . according to caslen , “ we in the pentagon are behind our opponents in using communication – either to recruit or train . ” in the aftermath of 9/11 , there was a good measure of sympathy and understanding worldwide for america ’s military response against the taliban .
our study concludes that india can experience faster economic and industrial growth , higher rates of energy consumption , and a cleaner environment . the key to a clean future is clean technologies , the costs of which have been falling steadily , and will continue to do so . but this is not all that has happened so far , either . on the contrary , air , soil , and water pollution have been growing , causing hundreds of thousands of deaths each year . sometimes , these technologies will pay for themselves , and will be adopted .
at one time , the private sector also brings innovation back to the classroom . for example , some providers develop teaching models in which students can watch teacher-created online videos outside of class , such that a precious teacher-student face time may focus on interacting rather than lecturing . after all , a lecture from a good teacher , even though being broadcast around the internet , is preferable to encounter time with an untrained adult . similarly , skilled teachers can now deliver interactive e-lesson to many classrooms at one time , though hundreds of miles away . as a result , students in places where schools have yet to build , or that too few qualified teachers are available , can still attain full education .
in fact , the obama administration has already shifted against chinese exports of hbo and steel pipes ; but this year ’s confrontation will extend well beyond trade . with the us congress taking the debate over climate change , for example , and some legislators call for a cap-and-trade system , others will want to know why america should embrace binding emissions-reduction commitments while the chinese decline . in order to help these domestic powerhouses enhance their market leverage , the government often favors it at the expense of its foreign competitors . in fact , china ’s leaders , no mood to play the scapegoat , will use surging national pride to bolster their positions and strengthen their hand in negotiations . having invested heavily in state-owned corporations and privately-owned “ national ” champions in recent years , the chinese government has ” spent heavily to ensure that china profits from the power of markets , while its leadership controls as little of the spoils .
but , faced with the possibility that today , persistently low inflation may stem from permanent supply shocks , they , too , are reluctant to ease more now . so , although central banks may be reluctant to yield to their formal 2 % inflation target , they are willing to prolong the timeline for achieving it , because they have so far done time and again , effectively conceding that inflation can stay low for longer . alternatively , they would have to sustain for much longer their unconventional monetary policies , including quantitative easing and negative policy rates – an approach in which most central banks ( with the potential exceptions of the bank of japan ) feel comfortable . this central-bank patience risks de-anchoring inflation expectations in inflation expectations of downward . but continuing for much longer with unconventional monetary policies also carries the risk of undesirable asset-price inflation , excessive credit growth , and bubbles .
what would persuade chinese leaders that they must quickly reinforce the open global economy that enabled china ’s export-driven economic rise ? one such catalyst might be the financial crisis emanating from the country ’s risk-laden shadow-banking system . to strike an agreement on a similar scale and influence , world leaders – particularly the us and china – would need to be under similarly high pressure . a global pact would need to be an urgent necessity , rather than an attractive possibility . a contest for global leadership might serve that purpose just as well .
winston churchill ’s famous affirmation of delaying tactics by the british and french on the eve of world war ii should serve as a wake-up call to french president nicolas sarkozy . it ’s not so much sarkozy ’s performance as the president that most frenchmen reject ; it ’s his essence . in fanning vicious anti-immigrant passions for short-term political gain , he will have dishonor first , and then defeat . for , although a largely french one may be inclined to rejoice at sarkozy ’s immigrant-bashing rhetoric , there can be no guarantee that they will closer to re-election in 2012 . at a time of rising unemployment , with france dominated by fears about the future , a french need a reassuring father or a mother figure , not a jittery and manipulative leaderready to compromise ethics and france ’s proud tradition that each citizen has the right to equality under the law .
at the same time , the international community must encourage the integration of refugees in the major host countries , such as turkey , kenya , lebanon , and jordan . as it stands , such countries receive just a fraction of the $ 3,000-5,000 per refugee required annually in order to provide adequate housing , food , health care , schooling , and job training during the initial years of displacement . millions end up in protracted displacement , spending an estimated 25 years , on average , stuck in limbo , uncertain as they might return home . in 2016 , developed countries should agree to accept the combined total approaching one million refugees annually , either through resettlement or issuing humanitarian , student , labor , and other visas . with canada alone having saying that it will resettle 50,000 syrian refugees this year , the goal is clear .
berkeley – inequality is on the public ’s mind almost everywhere nowadays . indeed , in the world ’s two largest democracies , india and the united states , widespread popular movements against rising inequality and elite greed are becoming highly salient issues in looming national elections . yet , in both countries , certain kinds of social inequalities are on the decline in recent decades . in india , certain historically disadvantaged groups ( particularly among the diminished castes ) are now politically assertive . the most egregious vestiges of caste discrimination are gradually receding .
yet unemployment remains on the rise in the heavily indebted southern countries , and output continues to lag behind germany and other northern european countries . the main reason for the lag is not simply low demand or large debts . there is a vast gap between unit labor costs – productivity-enhancing real productivity – in germany and the heavily indebted southern european countries . when the crisis first erupted , production costs in greece were about 30 % higher than in germany , so greece exported very little and imported very little . production costs in other heavily indebted countries were 20-25 % higher than in germany .
most important , despite a russian army massed against the us , the us is embarking on a us election campaign . and yet , because ukrainians are working to rebuild our country after viktor yanukovych ’s predatory rule , the us faces a fresh threat , in the form of the “ peace offensive ” that old staple soviet diplomacy aimed at undermining western resolve . russian president vladimir putin ’s recent phone calls with us president barack obama to seek renewed diplomatic talks , followed by a russian white paper about how to resolve the kremlin ’s crises , are actually a peaceful offensive that is offensive to peace . putin ’s gambit resembles that of the infamous “ yalta conference ” in 1945 , whereby joseph stalin made winston churchill and franklin d. roosevelt complicit in a division of europe that enslaved half of the continent for almost a half-century . putin ’s gambit resembles that of the infamous yalta conference in 1945 , whereby joseph stalin made winston churchill and franklin d. roosevelt complicit in a division of europe that enslaved half of the continent for almost a half-century .
in 1973 , dimona ’s defenders downed a wayward libyan civilian airliner headed for the reactor , killing 108 people . but the 1991 persian gulf war upset whatever solace israel could take from the recent past . iraqi scud missiles have bombarded tel aviv , and one has come close to hit dimona . and , while israel ’s arrow of ballistic missile defenses , now surround dimona , may enjoy superior access to the failed patriot system in 1991 , syria ’s more advanced scuds and iran ’s shahab 3 rocket present a more capable challenge than saddam ’s projectiles . hezbollah ’s bombardment of northern israel in 2006 , further demonstrating the country ’s vulnerability to a missile strike .
until recently , investors had hoped that the american federal reserve would do whatever it takes to avoid a recession , because that is what it has done on its previous occasions . now , they must recognize that the fed may no longer be in the position to do so . if us interest rates are lowered beyond a certain point , the dollar will come under renewed pressure and long-term bonds in fact go up in yield . moreover , the us financial authorities ’ ability to stimulate the economy is constrained by the unwillingness of the rest of the world to accumulate additional dollar reserves . with interest rates lowered beyond a certain point , the dollar would come under renewed pressure and long-term us bonds , in fact , stand up for yield .
educated , pushy mothers make all of the difference , and their parents do . and , when they marry and bear children of their own , they will reap benefits in two highly literate , working-class parents , who mean twice as much literate talk in their home , twice their contacts , and twice their encouragement to succeed . as us secretary of state hillary clinton put it in a newsweek issue , “ what the world needs to think more strategically and creatively about tapping into women ’s growth potential . ” studies show that helping women access to trade and growing companies helps create jobs and boost incomes . but , on the planet worst , forcing scared , uneducated women to stay home are more socially acceptable than confronting the reality that this means choosing to export incomes for everyone .
as a result , britain has lost much of its capacity to make an effective contribution to european reform . indeed , the last time britain held a strong european voice was more than two decades ago . by the 1990 ’s , the british euroskeptics coined the term “ anglosphere ” to describe a model that was more successful and more expansionary than the eu . one of the factors driving the uk ’s sense of unease in its increasingly bureaucratized relations in europe is the belief that its values and institutions are closer to those of the us or that of the other english-speaking former colonies . the u.s. was the eu ’s “ other woman ” undermining britain ’s loyalty to the eu as an attractive permanent partner .
but the battle between the pro- and anti-europeans is masking what really is at stake – and thus what should be the focus of the electoral debate : how europe can generate sustained economic growth . the upcoming elections will render the public ’s judgment about the success or failure of the austerity policies it has adopted . but it will also determine whether europeans can remain the world of a leading economic power , uphold their social model , and safeguard its framework of rights and liberties in a world that is not waiting for europeans to settle for their distinctions . this question , rather than endless defenses against euroskepticism , should be a headline item of deliberation for parties pushing for an improved europe for all . broad-based healing – in investment , demand , and employment – is the best weapon with which to confront those who would destroy the european project .
then there is the concept of systemic risk , which is not just in beholder ’s eye , but may be impossible to predict . the mexican crisis of 1994-1995 saw it as a systemic risk from washington , but not from most european capitals . everyone subscribed that ecuador posed no systemic risk ( though this was a emergency ! ) , but what about brazil ? and who before july 1998 thought that a russian default would trigger a global financial panic ? all agree that ecuador posed no systemic risk ( though this was a emergency ! ) , but what about brazil ?
the eurozone ’s southern members must reduce their wage costs to claw back the competitiveness that they have lost since adopting the common currency . concern about such divergences has also reached a task force , headed by european president herman van rompuy to devise fundamental reforms to the eu ’s economic-policy coordination . a key proposal from the task force ’s first meeting was to develop indicators of competitiveness , and then force member countries to undertake “ remedial action ” should the eu find large divergences . but this approach risks leading in the wrong direction . competitiveness , typically measured in unit labor costs , is a relative concept .
mexico city – during the spanish civil war , thousands of young americans went to spain to join the fight against fascism as part of the “ abraham lincoln brigade . ” today , with more people waking up to the threat that us president donald trump poses to the rule of law , human rights , and the international order , a new global opposition movement is emerging to defend democracy and basic decency . better yet , trump could be impeached or removed under the 25th amendment to the american constitution if enough members of his own administration deemed him incapable of carrying out the responsibilities of the presidency . opposition could have embraced the three tactics ; every now . one approach is simply to wait and hope that trump has turned to a lame duck by dampening revelations on his administration . better yet , trump might be impeached or removed from office according to the 25th amendment to the american constitution if enough members of his own administration deemed him incapable of fulfilling the responsibilities of the presidency .
in the short run , americans would have to make modest economic sacrifices . and no single measure would have done more to reduce global oil consumption than a sharp increase in a country ’s gasoline tax , which consumes more of it than any other : the us . if americans had to pay more for gasoline , they would be using less of it , with high gasoline prices , alternative energy sources like ethanol , and alternative forms of transportation , such as electric-powered automobiles would become commercially viable . none of this would immediately come about . no single measure would do more to try to take the world a less dangerous place than a substantial reduction in its own oil consumption .
new york – internet firms are supposedly all that is cutting edge , but the reality and buzz behind sometimes conflict . consider groupon : its focus is the power of groups ; but its real business is the old direct-mail marketing and coupons . consider groupon : its focus is the power of groups ; but its real business is the old direct-mail standby marketing and coupons . in fact , groupon is doing for its email marketing what other internet companies do for yellow pages or classified ads : encouraging merchants to use advanced technology to reach their customers . but groupon expands this model to a much broader audience , not so much to coupon users but instead to coupons . clearly , the model makes such sense for a lot of customer : groupon now has more than 50 million subscribers , and seeks 150 million by year-end .
the prevailing view is that the downward trend largely reflects a collapse in equilibrium or “ natural ” interest rates , driven by changes in the saving and investment fundamentals . in other words , the higher propensity to save in emerging economies , combined with investors ’ growing preference for safe assets , has boosted the supply of saving worldwide , even as weak growth prospects and heightened uncertainty in the advanced economies have depressed investment demand . this perceived shortfall of “ natural ” interest rates is viewed as the key impediment to economic recovery , because it impedes the capacity of monetary policy to provide enough stimulus by pushing real rates below their equilibrium levels because of the zero bound on nominal rates . how to stem the decline in the equilibrium rate has thus become the subject of lively debate . conspicuously absent from the debate is still the role of financial factors in explaining the trend downward trend in real rates .
as enrico moretti of the university of california at berkeley emphasized in his book the new geography of jobs , the salience of this new divide is unmistakable : university graduates account for about half of the total population in the us metropolitan areas , but are four times fewer in worse-off areas . in fascinating new research , mit ’s david autor and his co-authors have investigated the political consequences . they find that u.s. districts , where the economy was severely hit by chinese exports , have responded by rewarding more radical politicians – from the left or the right – on the basis of a fine . they find that u.s. districts , where the economy was severely struck by chinese exports , have responded by replacing more radical politicians – either from the left or the right . those who do business and work in traditional manufacturing districts caught in the turmoil of globalization are multiple losers : their jobs , their household wealth , and the fortunes of their children and relatives are all strongly correlated .
the un commission of inquiry has gathered information identifying some of the many responsible crimes that it investigated , but it has not made it a public good . the names of those responsible should be made public , either by the commission or by another body made up by the un human rights council . those to identify them should be said and given the chance to refute the findings . when they fail to respond or when their responses are not persuasive , their names and those attributable to them should be a public good . the un human rights council could act on its own , the un charter .
the scars of colonialism are fresher in france than any other country in europe ; the country has europe its largest muslim minority ; and , with moderates apparently particularly weak and divided , the extreme right is cresting in opinion polls . these ingredients might constitute a recipe for disaster , and all the same should be . nevertheless , should the right leaders be at the helm , january 7 attacks might spur a renewed sense of collective purpose and political revival . already , le pen seems reverting to form . “ national unity is a pathetic political maneuver , ” she complained , after being not invited to a rally one the day after the attacks .
on the tradable side , one should look for structural change and the shift in output toward the higher-value-added components of global supply chains . if policymakers choose a model based on a large state-dominated sector insulated from internal and external competition , the goals of innovation are unlikely to be met , adversely affecting future growth . this means increasing capital and human capital intensity across both the tradable and non-tradable sectors of the economy . here , innovation , and the conditions that underpin it , including competition and free entry and market entry , play an important role . meanwhile , the non-tradable side of the economy should grow .
of course , elections , alone , do not make such a democracy . that has been the case in russia , which , since president vladimir putin ’s first electoral victory in 2000 , has become a potemkin democracy . this year , another election , neither free nor fair , will provide putin another term in office . consider those cases when elections empower majority ethnic or religious groups that then rides roughshod over minorities , an outcome seen all around all too often in the balkans , for example . then there are cases when a leader ’s election is being treated as if it somehow legitimizes the subsequent emergence of a dictatorship .
but iranians are nothing like the nazis ; and there is no country like the soviet union posing the kind of threat that inspired us president richard nixon to head to beijing in 1972 . beyond timing , they have little in common ; indeed , they have very little in common . equally problematic has the tendency to compare the two sets of negotiations . what they do share is that their “ success ” has been driven largely by the sense that powerful external threats have made the alternative of a no-deal brexit a far worse bargain at all . in greece , negotiations have been propelled by the specter of embittered greece cozying up to russian president vladimir putin , with his dangerous revisionist ambitions or acting as a conduit for europe – a migrants .
integrity seems like an old-fashioned idea ; but it is at the heart of who we are , and how we live . when drugs are banned but some athletes use them anyway anyway anyway , playing field tilts in favor of the cheater ’s body . in the end , what if this advantage comes from using performance enhancing drugs ? for athletes eager to compete clean , the threat that they might be defeated by a competitor that does not quickly , stronger or more convenient , but who takes the drug to gain the edge is profoundly personal . if we prohibit drugs in the olympic games , we owe it to athletes to discourage , detect , and punish those who cheat .
this sketch of the crisis highlights how much has changed in the subsequent 20 years . for starters , the crisis countries ratcheted up their investment rates and growth expectations toward sustainable levels . south korea ’s admission to the oecd required its government to dismantle capital controls , exposing the economy to the inflows of short-term “ hot money . ” with the exception of south korea ’s , external forces compounded the issue , and thus . more broadly , countries felt pressured by the imf and american treasuries to de-escalate capital-flow restrictions , which magnified risks , and made pegged exchange rates increasingly problematic .
the renminbi is looming , but not before 2020 , by which time shanghai will have become a first-rate international financial center . and , even then , the renminbi is likely to share the international stage with the dollar , not to replace it . it is not about to replace the euro or the yen , given that both europe and japan have some serious economic problems of their own . what could precipitate the dollar ’s demise is reckless us economic mismanagement in the us . beyond this , the dollar is going nowhere in sight .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime ; but it does not augur all-out war . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere around the world . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has interested in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
i , along with a number of other affluent americans , contribute millions of dollars to the grass-roots organizations engaged in the 2004 presidential election . the us is deeply concerned with the direction in which the bush administration takes the united states and the world . if american voters endorse these policies , america will be forced to live with the world ’s hostility and to tolerate a vicious cycle of escalating violence . if americans reject the president ’s policies early in the polls , america can write off the bush doctrine as a temporary aberration and resume its rightful place in the world . in this effort , i committed $ 10 million to “ the america coming together , ” a grassrootless get-out-the-vote operation and $ 2.5 million to the ’moveon.org voter fund , the popular internet advocacy group airing advertisements to highlight the administration ’s misdeeds .
after america ’s peace negotiations with the afghan taliban failed – and almost 30 years after the end of the country ’s decade-long soviet occupation – the kremlin sidestepped the discussion among the taliban and representatives of other afghan groups . still , the middle east – a manifold conflict stemming from religious , ethnic , political , historic , and strategic factors – has the time and again exhausted the commitment of foreign actors . whereas russia has not overtaken the us , 20 % of respondents cited the country as their “ best friend ” outside of the middle east and north africa . but russia is likely to disappoint its shia fans across the middle east , not least as a regional peace broker . there is little reason to think that russia , which has never been particularly averse to long-term peace-building , will mediate , much less underwrite , durable peace agreements .
and that amount partly reflects the fact that those who collect social security and medicare are subject to the payroll tax that funding them . but experience shows that if retirement decisions or work fewer hours affect the compensation that members of that group receive . for many older workers , the choice is not whether to work , but to how much . the payroll tax passed on employees ’ benefits is 6.65 % ( employers are paying the same rate ) and is besides the personal income tax . in addition , owing to elaborate rules that govern the level of social security benefits , an older worker who pays that payroll tax is likely to receive some additional benefits .
the eu must forge close cooperation with russia ’s leaders and kaliningrad oblast in designing a viable future for the enclave . the eu ’s enlargement will provide tremendous impetus for europe ’s whole , especially the baltic region from which so many of the new eu members will emerge . up to now , the eu ’s interest in kaliningrad centered on how to restrict the visa rights that oblast ’s citizens are now using to put poland and the baltic states so as to visit the rest of russia . if this fails , however , the contrasts between kaliningrad and the rest of the region will be shamefully striking . the eu will gain trade and economic growth , however , and these might provide the real incentives to put kaliningrad in a more attractive neighbor and trading partner , not just a worried source of illegal russian migrants to the eu in the interest of a supposedly lax visa regime .
lev artsimovich , a tokamak ’s inventor , has said that “ fusion will be ready when society needs it . ” one hopes that it is right . without nuclear fusion , future generations ’ energy options will severely limit it , which creates a serious dilemma for the advanced and developing countries alike . but , rather than depending on fusion researchers to defy the odds , the world should tread investment in technology . without nuclear fusion , future generations ’ energy options will be severely restricted , creating a serious problem for the advanced and developing countries alike .
has the imf not insisted on a much tougher program , with fewer financing , for any country outside the eurozone ? the apparent explanation for the imf ’s extraordinary gamble is that the managing director , who made the decision to support greece so heavily hailed from the eurozone and at the time , has hardly trotted out its ambitions to run for the french presidency , that lies ahead of his arrest in new york on trumped-up charges of rape . moreover , europeans dominate the fund ’s headlines . it is a disreassuring conflict of interest that the debtors dominate an international institution that lends them massive sums to them . that mismanagement should disqualify any eurozone members from the imf ’s managing director , and yet , christine lagarde , a french finance minister , was named to succeed dominique strauss-kahn following his resignation .
so the three problems that europe will face in the second half of this year are bound to be closely linked . just now , the signs are far from promising . there are few new faces or ideas on the horizon as well . looking ahead , the eu will need the strongest leadership team that it can find to steer through treacherous waters and launch crucial financial reform . there is a meeting of the new faces , as well as the ideas of the eu itself , whose governments now find themselves in the horizon .
in many countries , campaigning costs are becoming prohibitively high for most aspirants regardless of gender . a more nuanced approach would focus on eliminating the underlying , interconnectivity barriers faced in getting nominated to be elected office , and conducted successful campaigns . such hurdles include the electoral system itself ( women fare better under proportional representation than do in the first-past-the-post systems based on single-member districts ) ; lack of access to funding ; weaker professional networks ; and outside responsibilities that force it to take on punishing and overwhelmed working conditions . overcoming such structural barriers will require a comprehensive strategy to support female candidates . one of the most powerful tools is money , which is a good idea , and we need to do so .
this reflects both the civil-investment deficiency and information-training gap : investing in job-training in a rapidly evolving industrial structure is like shooting up a moving goal . the same issues arise everywhere , with divergences that reflect the variability of market flexibility and social-policy choices . given imperfect information about the future needs , the labor markets are out of equilibrium . powerful technological and global market forces are not confined to any single country . the same issues arise everywhere , with differences in outcomes reflecting the variability in market flexibility and social-policy choices .
wikipedia ’s boosters trumpet it as heralding the advent of “ web 2.0 . ” the sharp divide between manufacturers and knowledge consumers started only around the world 300 years ago , when book printers secured royals for their trading in the face of piracy in a rapidly expanding literary market . the legacy of their success , copyright laws , continued to block attempts at cyberspace render the free the marketplace of ideas free . but the us has been here before – in fact , for most of human history . whereas “ web 1.0 ” has facilitated the storage and transmission of vast amounts of different kinds of information in cyberspace , “ web 2.0 ” supposedly feeds the entire process interactive , removes the final frontier separating the transmitter and receiver of information .
luxembourg , frankfurt , dublin , and others have made glossy presentations on their cities ’ competitive advantages over london : lower property costs , a lower corporate tax rate ( that sounds implausible when argued with an iranian accent ) , michelin-starred restaurants , and , in fact , pork-erships , all vital services that make up the vibrant financial center . some of these presentations have raised wry smiles or two . that is somewhat ironic : removing the uk from the ecj ’s jurisdiction is now one of may ’s principal aims . french president françois hollande was elected on the claim that the world of high finance was his enemy . so the delegation after the delegation of ministers , mayors and flocking financiers center lobbyists were filling london ’s best hotels and offering a welcome boost to high-end restaurant trading .
that reasoning has led iran ’s leaders to dial about its disruptive activities in a number of theaters , not least by seizing on the british tanker in the strait of hormuz ( they are also noted for the fact that the uk is europe ’s weak link ) . iran has been understandably frustrated with europe ’s slow progress toward the launch of instex , a bartering mechanism intended to permit some sort of deal between europe and iran despite us sanctions . the danger now seems to be that iran or its middle east proxies will have misread the situation and cross a red line . but those in iran who claim that they have done nothing from europe are simply wrong . the danger now is that iran or its middle east proxies will have misread the situation and cross a red line .
to be sure , america ’s corporate and securities scandals have exposed regulatory gaps-inadequate enforcement of disclosure requirements , for example , or excessive reliance on peer review to the auditors and so-called “ chinese walls ” to keep brokerage and investment-banking activities separate . moreover , america ’s accounting standards have been unable to cope with bookkeeping ’s uncharted frontiers of off-balance-sheet transactions , structured financing methods , and byzantine contract valuations . last but not least , managers , not distant shareholders , control access to well-paying payrolls and lucrative consulting jobs . so , too , are internal and external auditors that are often co-opted . so managers are quick to embrace “ aggressive ” or “ creative ” accounting methods that flatters earnings projections , conceals risk and portrays a smooth track record of profit growth .
the convention on biological diversity ( cbd ) , signed in 1992 , promised an international regime that would achieve access and benefit sharing ( arabs ) of their genetic resources . this would grant researchers and companies access to the developing world ’s ’s genetic treasure trove in return for a share of profits from the products that are then developed . but brokering the arabs ’ regime has proved elusive , with diminishing access – and thus a declining benefit-sharing – over the last five or so years . countries in asia – indeed , countries throughout the developing world – simply do not exporting their abundant and economically important genetic resources . that implies potentially enormous economic , ecological , and social losses for both the developed and developing world .
and they will work to deepen their internal markets , improve regulatory frameworks , empower the private sector , and expand the scope for market-based economic management . the other group , led by china , will stabilize at lower growth rates than the recent historical averages , while continuing to rise structurally structurally . they will gradually re-orient their growth models to make them more sustainable , an effort that the occasional bouts of global financial-market instability we may shake but not derail . the advantages of economic growth will be less unequally distributed than in the us in a few years , although they will still accrue disproportionately to those already better off . the third group , led by europe , will struggle with the eu as continued social stagnation fuels social and political disenchantment in some countries , complicating regional policy choices .
a third area of soft-power weaponization has been technology , particularly with respect to 5g . unlike the 3g and the 4g broadband system , 5g deployment has far-reaching security and geopolitical implications , owing to its promise not only to improve the mobile telephony , but also to accelerate progress on the internet of things and digitalization in the entire economy . and , because european firms are so heavily integrated with the american economy , europeans have struggled to maintain an autonomous foreign policy toward iran . once again , european companies have borne the costs of such measures . unless and until the euro can make itself within an international currency competitive to rival the dollar , europe ’s economy will remain highly vulnerable to america ’s extraterritoriality .
blinder and watson indicate that five factors – oil shocks , productivity growth , defense expenditures , foreign economic growth , and consumer confidence – may together explain the 56 % growth gap . but it is impossible to tell the degree to which these factors were influenced by an american president-elect ’s policies . so , in my view , what accounts for the partisan performance gap ? in assessing clinton ’s statements on the topic , the fact-chechens make much of the discover from blinder and watson that , contrary to the widespread assumptions , there are no more fiscal and monetary policies in general “ pro-growth ” or expansionary under the democrats than under republican presidents , and so can not account for differential performance . what we know even less about the factors responsible for the other 44 % of the us performance gap .
another possibility is for america to press for the trans-pacific partnership ( tpp ) . this was proposed late in the bush administration to forge ties with some asean members – singapore , vietnam , and brunei – as well as the rest of the pacific . but , with myanmar featured , this may become too difficult politically , and asean sub-groupings may become more realistic . in this time of crisis and unemployment , the american public may question freer trade . this could be built to include the other open southeast asian economies – malaysia and thailand – with the eventual goal of being a apec-wide agreement , an impressive achievement if realized in late 2011 , when it will be obama ’s turn to all leaders .
the trouble is that very few outsiders seem to be listening , much less prepared to confront the eventual limits of central-bank effectiveness . as a result , they risk aggravating the potential challenges . this is especially true of these policymaking entities , which possess far better tools to address the advanced economies ’ growth and employment challenges . rather than exploiting the opportunity afforded by central banks ’ unconventional monetary policies to respond effectively , too many have slipped into an basically dormant mode of inaction and denial . in the united states , for the fifth consecutive year in june , the us congress has handed over a full-fledged budget , let alone handled by the economy ’s growth and employment headwinds .
like high-level managers at publicly traded private companies , policymakers who make the wrong choices should confront clawbacks , in terms of diminished pensions . a retirement is a longstanding commitment from a state to one , and ultimately to a german taxpayer – to an individual politician . meanwhile , only 15 % of private-sector workers – people who credibly rely on a government-funded education and infrastructure – get the type of fixed-benefit retirement plan that will cushion ryan ’s retirement on , based on an oecd pension center . to restore fairness , the government should follow the private sector ’s lead and link politicians ’ pension to their performance . if politicians receive pensions starting at age 50 , as ryan will , the retirement benefit could realistically pay off over the age of 40-plus years .
pa prime minister salam fayyad , like his hamas counterparts in gaza , rules by decree that keep parliament inactive and silences the opposition . of course , throughout history , national liberation movements have been forced to marginalize their own radicals and fanatics in order to reach the promised land . this was true of zionism , of the italian risorgimento and , most recently , of catholics in northern ireland . abbas ’s presidential term has expired , and elections are steadily whittling away . with no institutionalized democratic legitimacy , the pa is bound to rely on its security forces and those of the occupier , israel , to enforce its will .
the case of khaled el-masri , a german citizen of lebanese descent , appears to have been another of these errors . for example , murat kurnaz , the german-born turkish man , was held in guantánamo for more than four years before he was released last august . seized by the cia in macedonia , he took to afghanistan , and interrogated for the five months before being released without charges . the commander of the guantánamo task force , hindu admiral harry b. harris , jr. , recently defended the harsh treatment of his prisoners there , claiming that “ one are all terrorists ; they are all enemies combatants . ” but , before that , the cia had made his mistakes .
a new balance will be struck between the eu and the member states , with a stronger role giving both the european parliament and national parliaments . the rotating presidency will be replaced by an elected council president of the council . the treaty calls for a new eu foreign minister – though formally denied that the title , this is what everyone will call him – with a strong administrative infrastructure in the european commission and council . eu citizens will ensconce themselves in legally binding fundamental rights , with majority rulings becoming the general norm . a high price has to be paid for this agreement , and this agreement has already been reached .
cash usage has fallen by more than 80 % in sweden over the past decade , and now is down by 10 % per year in the united kingdom while barely changing in germany . van steenis warns that the swedish experience shows that without a coordinated plan , the pace of change risks excluding some groups in society . the most interesting pieces of “ the future of finance ” concern how payment will be changed . cash is in decline in many countries , even though the rate differs markedly . we must hope that , in the first place , the government can answer that question .
for the same reasons , imf loans can be a burdensome legacy from a market-based perspective . the second reason to avoid imf intervention in europe is that lending to a potentially insolvent country has serious implications for the fund . for starters , assuming the imf ’s preferred-creditor status at face value , the imf borrowing would entail substituting its argentine non-defaultable ” debt for “ defaultable ” debt with private bondholders , because the fund ’s money is used mainly to service outstanding bonds . because a “ haircut ” can be imposed solely on whatever is left of the defaultable private-debt , the larger the imf ’s shares , the deeper the haircut it needs to restore sustainability . as a result , a group of lucky bondholders would be bailed out at the expense of those who became junior to imf debt , and remained highly exposed to likely restructuring .
beijing – consider this : despite china ’s swelling foreign-currency reserves – the result of persistent current-account surpluses – the market and the interbank short-term interest rate are soaring . one reason has happened before , and what should domestic policymakers do about it ? after all , china ’s monetary stock is relatively plentiful . as the world ’s largest currency issuer , china ’s broad money supply ( m2 ) is 1.5 times larger than that of the united states , with the m2/gdp ratio some 200 % , compared to roughly 80 % in the us . in fact , the problem , at its root , is structural .
while institutions like the weill cornell in qatar and the academic and technology gulf university in kuwait have launched innovative research and training programs focused on these types of health challenges , far more needs to be done . better public-health policies worldwide are moving toward more multidisciplinary integration in engineering , medicine , social and management sciences and governance laws , and the humanities . by not yet embracing an integrated approach , gcc institutions risk falling behind the global norm . worldwide , public-health policies are shifting toward more multidisciplinary integration in engineering , medicine , social and management sciences and management , and the humanities . technology and new approaches to public health are important ; but they will be ineffective if not tailored to meet the actual needs of the local population .
given hollande ’s rock-bottom approval ratings , it is widely believed that a winning republican will be france ’s next president . and , though juppé remains far ahead for opinion polls so far , the french could reject his happy version of french identity in favor of sarkozy ’s much darker one . i continue to believe that juppé is most likely to emerge as france ’s next president . more telling , of course , will be a party primary by november . in terms of age and profile , he resembles the french version of hillary clinton , more practiced in his exercise than his conquest of power .
and , perhaps most important , what are the optimal trade-offs to bail out eu member states and european institutions to cooperate more efficiently on a common european future ? under the banner of “ streamlining , ” the “ how ” gravitates toward the outsourcing of the majority of implementation to the agencies that is supposed to be ensconced , one hopes , with more flexibility , to fill their particular missions . how , then , can innovation never be only a technological but socially just as important as the eu is – and is being fully exploited ? and , perhaps most important , what are the optimal trade-offs to get eu member states and european institutions to collaborate , more efficiently , for a common european future ? under the banner of “ streamlining ” , ” the “ how ” ” gravitates toward the outsourcing of the majority of implementation to the agencies , one hopes , with more flexibility to fill their particular missions .
far from undermining militancy and combatting terror , the war is likely to play into al qaeda ’s hands , giving it a new lease on life . a us invasion from iraq with large numbers of civilian casualties would deepen a sense of victimization and defeat felt by arab youths and force them to join al qaeda-style holy war cells . despair and alienation have taken hold among the younger generation of arabs who represent more than 50 % of the region ’s population . indeed , militant islamists , hoping to recover from the wrenching blows they have absorbed since the war on terror began , are already positioning themselves to capitalize on the coming war with iraq . political repression and silencing arab public opinion should worry america and its arab allies , not to reassure them , for it means that there is no way to channel the public ’s interests , demands , and frustrations peacefully .
a poorer ukraine would be an even easier victim of russian aggression than it is today . and the kremlin ’s hold on belarus would even be tighter should yamal close . by committing to buy more russian gas than necessary , and over a longer time , the eu would be helping to finance russia ’s military build-up , which represents a direct threat to european peace . moreover , germany and other europeans would not be spared the consequences . but nord stream 2 would make those sacrifices inevitable .
san francisco – at first , it appears puzzling : prescription drug prices in the united states continue to rise at an alarming rate , despite the threat ( or the promise ) of competition from cheaper generic substitutes . and those who should act as watchdogs for patients are happy to go along . with the us health-care system , pharmaceutical companies are paying players across the us health-care system to favor their more expensive drugs over the lower-priced alternatives . yet there really is little mystery at the matter . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
after all , the arab world has many homegrown problems , too , including inefficient and ineffectual governance , unholy alliances , and undeveloped national capacities . but while there are many reasons to pin the blame on outside powers on the region ’s parlous state of affairs , blaming others – or even one – others will solve nothing . disaster awaits any region that is helpless to shape its own future , in which a large majority of citizens feel disenfranchised . though the arab world has traditionally been more conservative than at least , almost 70 % of its citizens remain below the age of 35 , with young people suffering the highest rates of joblessness in most countries . this constitutes not only tremendous wasteful resources , but also a serious long-term sociopolitical problem .
almost 62 % of the vaccinators in nigeria are female . almost 62 % of the vaccinators in nigeria are female . as polio survivor , i simply can not fathom the possibility that , with full eradication in our sights , we might enable polio to return . to ensure that the female vaccinators stay engaged in this fight , addressing the barriers – whether physical security , social restrictions , or low pay – that they are confronting – is vital to address the obstacles . like polio survivor , i simply can not fathom the possibility that , with full eradication in our sights , we might enable polio to go back .
a large minority of citizens in the developed world inhabits filter the bubbles created by these platforms , and the digital false realities in which existing beliefs become more rigid and extreme . in the us , roughly one-third of the adults in the world have become impervious to new ideas , including demonstrable facts . such people are easy to manipulate , a concept that the former design ethicist tristan harris calls “ brain-hacking . ” the us has no effective regulatory framework on the internet market platforms and lacks the political will to create one . the western democracies are , by and large , ready to handle this threat .
when american troops were captured in iraq , president bush declared that he expects them to be treated humanely . “ if not , ” the president admonished , “ people who mistreat prisoners will be treated like war criminals . ” president bush ’s remarks drove home the importance of rigorous adherence to the geneva conventions , and the question of how war crimes trials might be convened in postwar iraq , as well as the behavior of the us . american officials recently released a list of iraqis facing trial for past crimes . the american plan of war crimes trials covers violations committed before the current conflict erupted .
second , today ’s algorithms are becoming very good at pattern recognition when they are provided with big data sets – to find objects in youtube videos or detecting credit card fraud – but they are far less effective with unusual circumstances that fail to fit the usual pattern , or simply when the data are scarce or some “ noisy ” . third , the latest systems ’ latest systems can not account for what they have done , or why they are recommending a particular course of action . to treat such cases requires a skilled person , with his or her experiences , intuitions and social awareness . when interpretability matters , for example , in many medical apps , you need a trained human decision-making loop . when interpretability matters , for example , in many medical apps , you need a trained human decision-making loop .
president putin ’s moves to strengthen the integrated system of power thus reflect a logic and correct one . the second important area of progress has been reform of the russian federation : the establishment of federal offices and reform of the council of ministers . these changes are controversial , but a federation whose laws are not currently observed by some of its constituent members can not function normally ; a federation where the laws ’ observance depend on a whim for local administrators simply can not exist . president putin ’s moves to reinforce an integrated system of power thus reflect his logic and correct . these changes are controversial , but a federation whose laws are ignored by some of its constituent members can not function normally ; a federation in which the laws ’ observance depends simply can not exist .
it is possible that trump hopes that saudi arabia ’s support can help drive forward negotiations among israelis and palestinians alike . within israel , the right-wing alternative , many worry that trump simply tries to appease israel with rhetoric and views saudi arabia as mainstay of america ’s own interests in the region . but , owing to trump ’s failure to take a real stand on any core area of disagreement – including borders , refugees , and jerusalem ’s status – the idea that he plays some well-thought-out long games on the israel-palestine conflict appears farfetched . some of netanyahu ’s top cabinet ministers , including avigdor liberman , a hawkish defense minister , and yuval steinitz , a member of the security cabinet , quickly expressed concern over the arms deal . for israel , this is about more than a little on the question of it .
and weaknesses in the london housing market do not appear to have spread elsewhere . in fact , in the northwest , residential real-estate prices are showing signs of accelerating upward upward . should this trend endure , it would have far-reaching implications for the uk economy . one thing that the us can be fairly certain about is that the government should pursue policies to engage with the northern powerhouse and , perhaps , with the engine of midlands , ” as well . reinvigorating the northern housing markets might do wonders to reverse the disturbing regional inequalities that emerged in recent decades .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere around the world . new delhi – for some time now – has gamed america ’s rules to minimize its fiscal responsibility , or even eliminate it completely . and for some time now , the independent commission on international corporate taxation ( icrict ) has been arguing for us mncs ’ unitary taxation . fortunately , there have been some encouraging recent signs that the unitary tax idea gains traction .
a third step must be an expanded program of research and development into new , more effective approaches to controlling the disease . with specially designed , low-cost drug combinations , and drugs provided to the poorest countries at the lowest possible cost of production , expanded arv therapies could emerge , even very poor countries at an acceptable price . the most promising answer for the long term is a life-saving vaccine . the recent breakthroughs in basic science provide hope that a vaccine could flourish in the next decade if billions of dollars in r & d funding mobilized both the public and private sectors . that includes : funding to stem the transmission of maternal to infants ; funding to help fight infections like aids tuberculosis ; and good program design , even funds for anti-retroviral therapies .
in fact , the un estimates that up to seven in ten women worldwide experience physical or sexual violence – or both – over its lifetime . clearly , a global shift is needed in gender-related attitudes and standards . to that end , national governments have a responsibility to develop gender-sensitive policies and practices , policies that effectively discourage gender-based discrimination , while deterring violence , including by punishing one ’s perpetrators . but , in order to avoid it , violence against women can be difficult to detect ; on the contrary , it can be difficult to detect . even those who are fully aware of it may choose to ignore it , believing that it is none of their business , or too widespread to make the difference , or because they are too busy being involved .
this month , new mayors assumed office without a electoral commission ( cse ) gave public 100 % of the popular vote , an open-ended violation of nicaraguan electoral law . despite complaints from the episcopal conference of the catholic church , chambers of commerce and political parties , the cse refused to allow a recalculation of the ballots or scrutiny by impartial party observers . though the electoral fraud in managua was the most widely documented in recent years , the same modus operandi occurred across the country , affecting more than 40 municipalities . the fsln government thus proclaimed itself the winner in 109 of the 153 municipality . and , after its citizens protested peacefully , the government resorted to violence in order to back down .
even if putin did find a way to retain power without amending the constitution , a possibility that has endlessly been reflected in russia ’s diminished democrat band – his strategy ’s undemocratic nature – is glaringly obvious . what will make this work is that , like any good kgb person , putin is a master of facades . shifting from one high office in the kremlin to another in the white house ( the position of the russian parliament ) is a mere technicality . it has been said that presidential democracy merely enhances russian political culture ’s inclination to favor multi-party rulers , ” whereas the parliamentary system would enable a more “ horizontal ” distribution of power . putin will be a czar regardless of who office formally on his own .
the question now is whether the brotherhood will prevail , both in the streets and through egypt ’s new constitution ( which they have largely wrote ) . if they do , will the west withdraw its support for egyptian democracy in the name of “ stability ” ? at the same time , the question of what to do about iran ’s nuclear program is coming back with a vengeance in january , after us president barack obama ’s second-term inauguration and israel ’s general election demand that he respond in a few months . morsi ’s timing was remarkable : the day after his victory an international accord with his successful effort to broker a truce in gaza , he staged a much-touted frontal assault on egypt ’s nascent democracy . it would be a bad mistake to engage in an uncertain conflict , but one that can not help but choose .
liberalism – protecting minorities and individual civil liberties – had to be strengthened . and it was alternative meanings that initially allowed politicians like orbán and turkish leader recep tayyip erdoğan to make the case for another form of majoritarian democracy . the implication was clear : democracy on its own was not enough . the notion of liberalism in its own right , however , does not do the same for all people . in many circles , it has come to be used to describe unfettered capitalism and full freedom of choice in personal lifestyles .
in essence , macron is hoping that his agenda , if implemented at the eu level , will lift not just the french economy , but all european ships . in that case , a variety of populist will seize an opportunity ? in that case , a variety of populist will seize an opportunity ? despite talk of a “ green economy ” and calls for a europe-wide investment program , macron ’s agenda is broadly neoliberal . the economist dani rodrik has placed the appeal of populism in focus .
the first shock was intensified globalization , bringing a lot of new low-wage competition . germany ’s precision and fiber optic facilities , for example , lost their competitive edge when japan entered the eu . though a gradual process of globalization is underway , it gained momentum as china decides to play that game . china is ten times the size of japan , and japan was not easy to cope with , either . the second shock was eu integration , including the northern and the southern enlargements .
while countries may pride in a strong currency , a strong dollar is bad for us exports and good for imports . in a dynamic economy , if jobs disappear in one sector , new jobs are created elsewhere . government ’s role is to facilitate the movement of labor from one to the other . it is the government ’s primary responsibility to maintain full employment . america ’s worsening fiscal position results in the strong dollar , just as america ’s deteriorating fiscal position following reagan ’s irresponsible tax cuts two decades ago did .
defending the national interest still rallies their publics ; exercising power remains at the heart of their diplomatic calculations . to be sure , consensus , compromise , and pooled sovereignty are the only ways to resolve many of the big issues , such as climate change , nuclear proliferation , that bedevil our world . but on the big issues of war , peace , and the balance of power , europeans seem trapped between an insufficiently cohesive foreign policy and insecurity among individual countries about how to define and ensure their national interests . to them , geopolitics is not anathema ; it is at the heart of all its external actions . on the contrary , the world ’s rising powers , brazil , china , india , and russia , insist on not just the primacy of their national interest , but , as the failed climate negotiations in copenhagen last december , on sovereign freedom of action in the same way .
the pro-milosevic candidate , tomislav nikolic , lost , but received 46 % of the vote . despite his campaign promises , serbia ’s then-president boris tadic has so far failed to cooperate with the icty by aiding in turning over mladic ( karadzic probably did not in serbia ) who would undoubtedly testify against milosevic . one understands his trepidation : the first post-milosevic prime minister , zoran djindjic , cooperated with the tribunal and paid for it with his life . without full control of either proof or indicted the icty lacked the start of the legitimacy and authority of its own victors ’ judiciary . such foot-dragging exposes the icty ’s fundamental weakness : unlike the nuremberg tribunal , the international community convened it during , not after , a world war .
but the new approach also rests on the recognition that china ’s continued development depends on a healthy equilibrium between ecology and economics . for starters , the global financial meltdown and the subsequent recession set bare the consequences of free-market fundamentalism , thus undercutting the popular and ideological support for the neoliberal view that markets are best at shaping societal outcomes . other things being equal , china – the embodiment of the go-for-growth movement , has signaled a policy shift toward pursuing better social and environmental outcomes alongside more moderate gdp gains . to be sure , this is largely a case of virtue arising from necessity ; as export-driven growth has slowed , the risk of social unrest over issues like air pollution , food toxicity , and rising corruption has grown . that shift is linked to a third , broader development : the world ’s growing understanding of where the planet is headed on environmentally friendly terms , particularly with respect to climate change .
johannesburg – my country liberalized abortion more than it did two decades ago , but on january 23 , 2017 , us president donald trump has practically taken away my right even to write that word . as part of my work , i often erdit educational materials for an ngo working on hiv prevention . for young south african women , these texts offer life-saving insights about issues relating to sexual and reproductive health – including birth control , sexual violence , and , in our country , progressive abortion laws . but , two days after the american presidential election in november 2016 – and more than two months before trump ’s inauguration , a ngo that i was working for a halt to distribute a reproductive-health guide because it contained information about south africa ’s constitutionally guaranteed abortion right . as south africa ’s primary health-care right , i have provided abortion services for more than ten years .
is there an alternative to sending us ground troops to the middle east ? is there an alternative to sending us ground troops to the middle east ? the us election campaign will heat up at a time when america faces an daunting set of problems . how should it approach china ’s emergence not only the facts on the ground , but on the ground itself , in the south china sea ? indeed , how can america respond firmly to russian aggression without forsaking the long-planned project of bringing it closer to the west ?
the us has undermined its command structure , undermined its propaganda , removed half of its senior leadership , squeezed its financing , damaged its supply networks , and dispersed its personnel . as of september , the us has retaken 700 square kilometers of territory . today , the international coalition fighting isis has grown to more than 60 un active members . the world can not and will not wilt in the face of such extremism , wherever it exists , whether it has done so in the sahel , nigeria , iraq or syria . the us has deprived it of the group of use – and the resulting revenues , from its 200 oil and gas facilities .
when the berlin wall fell in 1989 , hammers and bulldozers , not artillery had brought it down . academic and scientific exchanges during the cold war played a significant role in america ’s soft power . while some american skeptics worried that soviet scientists and kgb agents would steal american technology , they failed to note that visitors vacuumed in their political ideas alongside scientific secrets . many of these scientists had become director of human-rights proponents and liberalization within the ussr . alas , bush failed to learn that lesson .
today , chinese-style and indian-style modernity is mentally destabilizing japan . its aging populations watches re-signesignedly as the new , younger asia , becomes as relevant to the us as europe did in the cold war . after all , if china is america ’s principal economic partner in asia , and if india is america ’s main diplomatic partner , then what is left for japan ? george w bush ’s approach , he argues , regards india as one of the world ’s “ anti-china , ” ” ” ” and thus as a counterbalance to the us as the world ’s “ oldest civilization . ” forty years ago , japan represented the “ asian west . ”
new york – a global recession that is now occurring is the result not just of financial panic , but also of more fundamental uncertainty about the future course of the global economy . should they risk buying a new car when gasoline prices can soar again ? will they be able to put the fed on the table after this year experiencing a terrifying spike in food prices ? decisions about business investment are even starker . consumers are pulling back from home and automobile purchases , not only because they have suffered a blow against their wealth with falling stock and housing values , but also because they do n’t know where to turn .
at the same time , no single trace of polish authority remained . everywhere else in german-controlled europe , the nazis had to deal with , sometimes in extraordinarily complicated fashion , with local governments , if only for tactical reasons . as a result , the total destruction of the polish state and its institutions made poland an ideal location for german extermination camps , in which six million polish citizens – three million jews and three million ethnic poles – were assassinated . everywhere else in german-controlled europe , the nazis had to bargain , sometimes in an extraordinarily complicated way , with local governments , if only for the tactical reasons . this is one reason why poland is right to insist that the camps were not called “ polish extermination camps ” ” ” ( as even us president barack obama once mistakenly put it ) .
brazil ’s embraer has revolutionized airplane manufacturing with a business model that others have imitated . in the telecommunications sector , a half-dozen emerging-market multinational firms are now in the top ten . major suppliers to the world bank ’s telecoms firm are found in china , where huawei is now headed to head with sweden ’s ericsson . india ’s tata sells cars for 75 % less than its european competitors . in 2008 , during the 2008 financial crisis , the us huawei classified more us patents than any other us company , culminating second to japanese panasonic forces in 2009 .
what would help is if their nominal disposable income rose in proportion to its ( fixed ) debt service . yet , with high unemployment levels likely to keep nominal wage growth relatively subdued , typical troubled households could end up worse off – with higher food and fuel-price cutting to disposable incomes . even for distressed households , which borrowed long ago , the effects of higher inflation are uncertain . meanwhile , the bulk of its obligations are social security and health care , which can not be ballooning in net terms . even for distressed households , which have borrowed long , the effects of higher inflation are uncertain .
elements in the g-20 ’s current agenda align well with china ’s domestic economic concerns , particularly with respect to infrastructure . to be sure , with turkey ’s term at the g20 ’s helm , xi probably still does not settled on concrete priorities . but some of the potential areas of concern are already becoming apparent . while china ’s leadership will , it seems hoped , lack the drama of 2009 , chinese president xi jinping will undoubtedly give trump an edge . unless he missed an opportunity to advance the goal of the asia-pacific trade agreement , while hosting last year ’s asia-pacific economic cooperation summit , he certainly will not pass the chance to ensure that the g20 agenda serves china ’s interests .
new york – in the aftermath of the french revolution of 1789 , deputies in the national assembly who supported the revolutionary bargains sat on the left , while those who opposed them and hankered after the old order of monarchy and church congregated on the right . it is then that the politics of the “ left ” and “ right . ” emmanuel macron prides himself on being neither the right nor the left . marine le pen , whose national front is allied with the far right , disagrees : to her , macron , who was minister in a socialist government , is a leftist . many commentators on the french presidential election have pointed out that these categories no longer fit contemporary politics in france or , indeed , anywhere else .
as a result , it will probably be a long time before one can judge the success of whatever law the american congress is ultimately organizing . we should be tumbling down the likely achievements : some form of the financial-product safety commission will be set up ; more derivative trades move to exchanges and clearing houses from murky “ bespoke ” market ; and some of the worst sub-prime mortgage practices will be curtailed . but the likely failures are equally noteworthy : the new us law must curb practices that have jeopardized the entire global economy ; and reorient the financial system toward its proper tasks – managing risk , allocating capital , providing credit ( especially to small – and medium-size enterprises ) ; and operating an efficiency-improving payments system . moreover , it looks likely that the outrageous fees charged for every debit transaction – a sort of tax that goes without any public purpose but filling the banks ’ coffers – will be curbed . but the likely failures are equally noteworthy : the too-big-to-fail problem is now even worse than it was before the crisis .
to be sure , most french and german citizens identify as europeans , opposing uk citizens who identify as british , or perhaps also as english , irish , scotland , or welsh . but , when it comes to security and defense , these affinities are reversed : france and britain are very likeminded , whereas germany , owing to its history , has long stried away from martial pursuits of any kind . to be sure , there are many differences between britain and france , with respect to how they engage with the united states and nato . but , when it comes to security and defense , these affinities are reversed : france and britain are being extremely likeminded , whereas germany , owing to its history , has long scoffed out from martial pursuits of any kind . in fact , the uk is naturally coming closer to nato than france is .
the long-term ramifications of the deal stand in sharp contrast both to obama ’s february 2010 budget proposal and to a republican-controlled congress . though the new tax law is widely described as a fiscal stimulus , it is more accurate to say that it avoids a large immediate fiscal contraction . by agreeing to limit current tax rates on just two years , the tax package reduces the projected national debt by the end of the decade ( relative to what it would have had with obama ’s budget ) by some $ 2 trillion , or almost 10 % of gdp , in 2020 . obama wanted to continue the 2010 tax rate permanently for all taxpayers , except for those with annual incomes above $ 250,000 . in passing , the republicans proposed continuing the tax rate of 2010 permanently for all taxpayers .
the crisis also revealed the scale of america ’s massive over-capacity in retail markets , with estimates leaving at least one-fifth of american shopping malls near . spending on the automobiles ground to soften until government stimulus programs in many countries revived it . the automobile market rescued a ride in 2009 at the expense of selling sales in 2010 and subsequent years . but schemes like public subsidies to scrapping old and fuel-inefficient cars simply led many people to restart their purchases . the us response to the crisis will be a hastening of the movement ’s movement toward on-line purchases , in which physical locations are no longer an preeminent part of shopping choices .
indeed , confucianism has become the official ideology of the chinese state two centuries before the birth of christ . confucianism was in part a philosophical justification of government by a benevolent bureaucracy under the virtuous ruler . virtue ensured harmony between man and nature , as were obedience within a stratified society . as one confucian classical put it : possessing virtue takes over a ruler . possessing the people will give him his territory , possessing it .
but a syrian-israeli peace would drive a wedge between syria and iran , cutting hezbollah off hezbollah ’s arms deliveries while allowing the vital task of stabilizing lebanon to succeed . a damascene conversion is not only possible ; it is also vitally important for regional peace . the most realistic scenario today is a three-front war pitting israel against syria , hamas and hezbollah . the only way to extricate syria from a fatal iranian embrace is to draw it into a regional grand scheme for peace . alas , precisely because of its isolated and ba’athist regime ’s regime ’s paranoiac , syrians are unlikely to meet america ’s position for peace talks : abandoning their current rogue alliances and careening their own with terror .
thailand ’s farms became increasingly alienated from the urban elite . for much of thailand ’s long economic boom of the last two decades , wealth resided mostly in bangkok ’s metropolitan area , a boon to the burgeoning urban middle class , but deeply resented by the rural majority . while rural dwellers have more than enough to consume , their economic opportunity and upward mobility have been constrained by a shoddy education system and a docile state-run media that have fed them soap operas and the official messaging accordingly . thaksin recognized this urban-rural divide and shrewdly exploited it , upending the elite consensus that has long prevailed . thailand ’s farms have become increasingly alienated from the urban elite .
by setting the example of coexistence , they can mitigate the alawites ’ fears in syria that deserting assad would facilitate the rise of the anti-alawite sunni regime . if the alawites and sunnis living abroad may stand united against the assad regime , so can their counterparts within syria . some of the roughly 150 pro-rebellion alawites who attended a conference traveled from their homes in syria ; others were expatriates , including activists and religious leaders who were forced to flee syria to support the revolution . the delegates involved in several sunni opposition members – denounced assad and declare their unwavering support for a united , a democratic country offering full citizenship to all syrians , regardless of sect or ethnic background . “ depriving a regime of a sectarian card is crucial for its ouster , ” ” ” ” a conference ’s organizing committee noted .
though equitable shareholding was not china ’s preferred route , it did not force the matter . for its part , china announced its plans for the aiib shortly after it signed the ndb articles of agreement in 2014 . in the case of the ndb , each of the brics owned a equal share , and each contributed $ 10 billion to the initial subscribed capital . by contrast , china is the aiib ’s largest shareholder by a broad margin , holding a 26.6 % stake , comparing to india ’s 7.7 % and russia ’s 6 % . brazil and south africa , meanwhile , have made no capital contributions to date , despite being designated as the “ founding members . ”
powell ’s predecessor , barack obama , took a principled stand in america ’s dealings with venezuela , imposing sanctions in order to rein in rogue behavior , a policy that drew broad bipartisan support . and it is especially bizarre that even as us policy toward mexico greatly increased the chances of an anti-american chávez-type becoming president there , us officials provide positive publicity to a government that is a caricature of catastrophic governance . put bluntly , in both instances , the us ought to say no : while us aid is transparent , the symbolism of a wealthy country taking money from a impoverished neighbor with millions of suffering people is hardly appealing . the trump administration needs to stay the course , especially as lower oil prices have weakened the venezuelan government ’s hand . rather than bashing latin america , the us needs a show of it that can be a steady and principled friend that does not be swayed by corrupt bribes of any kind .
but , in the european way of thinking , democracy must spread pacifically , by persuasion , not arms power . indeed , the political imperative is as great a constitutional one . europeans can not preach cultural pluralism and practice constitutional imperialism as well . a similar solution is to make the european constitution work . europeans , after all , are committed to democracy worldwide . but europeans can not preach cultural pluralism and practice constitutional imperialism .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime ; but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
the implications of trump ’s speech extend beyond america ’s policy in afghanistan . in any case , the address also sharpened the contours , already limned during his may visit to saudi arabia and his july visit to poland to what might be called the trump doctrine . the address also sharpened the contours , already limned during his may visit to saudi arabia and his july visit to poland to what might be called the trump doctrine . trump is weighing what india already has done , but is urging it to do even more , to use its vast earnings from exports to the us to help rebuild afghanistan ’s economy . he has also signaled his will work with the us to create a indo-pacific security area .
it orchestrated the postwar international order : the united nations , the bretton woods institutions , the marshall plan , reconstruction of japan , and more . under that order , the rest of the world closed much of the vast technological , education , and an infrastructural gap with america . it china now has a larger economy in absolute terms than america ’s , although it still accounts for only around one-fourth of its size in per capita terms . the share of the global economy represented by the u.s. has shrunk by about one-half ( to around 16 % currently ) . as imf economists put it , global growth has been “ convergent , ” ” implying that the poorer countries have picked up .
given budgetary pressures in many donor countries , official development assistance is on the decline , and it can not be relied on to fill that need . a focus on corporate social responsibility might help ensure that the benefits of industrialization are shared , while energy – and resource-efficiency requirements – could help to safeguard sustainability . and , as the sdgs recognize , resilient infrastructure and incentives to innovation are also critical . of course , achieving that objective , not to mention the other sdgs , will be expensive , costing an estimated $ 3.3-4.5 trillion a year . indeed , as a report by the international committee of sustainable development finance experts points out , the financing spectrum for future international development frameworks must be broader than ever .
to be sure , most taxes impose a heavy “ excess burden ” : the costs far exceed the value of the revenues raised due to potential taxpayer myriad efforts at evasion and avoidance . a tax on oil , on the other hand , does not impose a excess burden . in contrast , it implies excess benefits . for example , if high oil prices were the result of taxes that were then reallocated to the country ’s oil users , they would be unambiguously good . to be sure , most taxes impose a heavy “ excess burden ” : the cost vastly outweighs the value of the revenues raised so far as to potential taxpayer funds ’ myriad attempts at evasion and avoidance .
you buy low-carbohydrate products , energy and nutritional bars , vitamin a – as well as mineral-enriched foods and beverages , soy foods and beverages , soy foods and beverages , soy foods and practically anything with health claims . if you routinely buy such food , you are among the lohas ( health lifestyles and sustainability ) consumers – the health food industry ’s cherished demographic base . like many , i thought that small , innovative companies , dominated the functional foods . sales of lesser-known and functional foods have already done well in recent years , bringing some $ 85 billion in sales in the us in 2004 . so-called “ functional ” foods are those that producers ” add omega-3 oils , artificial sweeteners , artificial sweeteners , indigestible starches , cholesterol reducers , soy , or milk ( whey ) proteins , phytochemicals , and other ingredients to take on “ qualified ” health-related claims ( fda ) . if you routinely purchase such foods , you are among lohas ( health lifestyles and sustainability ) female consumers , the health food industry ’s cherished demographic base .
all of this recalls some powerful arguments made in the nineteenth century about national integration and unification . the case for capital-market integration , and then for the single currency , was a similar one . in particular , the two countries whose difficulties drove much of the need for twentieth-century european integration – germany and italy – were culturally and politically highly diverse . the common market was defended at the start of the gains that would follow from increased trade . unity supposedly serves as a foundation for prosperity .
according to a recent study , the impact investing in the us would not exist without the federal government ’s support and partnership with the federal government via its grants , loans , and guarantees . a few existing federal programs , such as the community reinvestment act and the small-scale entrepreneurial investment corporation , support the growth of impact investing funds . in a sib , government contracts with an outside provider in order to achieve a measurable social goal ( like reducing recidivism among adolescent offenders ) , private-sector impact investors finance the program ’s upfront costs , and government promises a return to them should the program ’s goals be reached . more recently , the obama administration has proposed a $ 300 million fund to catalyze federal pay-for-performance contracts . metrics are an essential feature of pay-for-performance contracts , and everyone must be an essential feature of any government program .
under mao ’s rule , the only acceptable narrative so far has been that the ccp was leading the resistance against japan . foreign assistance , including a prominent american role in wartime china , had no real place in this narrative . now , china is keen to emphasize its role as one of key us allies in combating fascism and imperialism in wwii , and , increasingly , in western ignorance of its wartime role as unacceptable . their presence indicates that , behind a parade of martial rhetoric and symbolism , a broader and more complex story of china ’s wartime experience is unfolding . but ignorance in the west about china ’s wartime sacrifices – 14 million dead , and of its high-profile contribution to hold more than a half-million japanese forces also reflect the partisan history of the trade war that has been taught in china itself .
wealth creation matters , but not until it recoups the wealth destruction that preceded it . yes , the stock market is now at an all-time high , but only in current dollars . in real terms , the s & p 500 remains 20 % below its january 2000 peak . similarly , while the case-shiller us home price index now stands at 10.2 % in late march 2013 , it remains 28 % lower than its 2006 peak . but are these newfound wealth effects really all ?
after all , it was their center-left voters who got macron elected . and they knew what they voted for : every policy he implemented so far was included in his campaign platform . still , that distinction might not even be as powerful as the socialists may have believed . the left remains deeply divided on virtually all issues , from europe , secularism , education , entrepreneurship , and , more , making it exceedingly difficult to identify what exactly constitutes “ leftist ” policies nowadays . in fact , the socialists have started distinguishing themselves not from what they are , but from what little , touting the front , “ neither macron nor mélenchon ” ( a reference of the far-left jean-luc mélenchon ) .
there is an even less risk in saudi arabia itself , where king abdullah recently pledged more than $ 130 billion in stimulus spending . the few saudi demonstrations appear populated almost entirely by minority shia who find little sympathy among majority sunnis , and by overseas construction workers petitioning for higher wages and better working conditions . nor does iran ’s government seem to be confronting the real danger . syria ’s president bashar al-assad has more domestic support than the recent media accounts for the unrest in the country ’s southern region suggest . the brutal crackdown on the post-election protests in 2009 demonstrated the regime ’s determination to maintain order by whatever means necessary .
mexico city – four central american countries – guatemala , el salvador , honduras , and nicaragua , among others – struggle , still burdened by their legacy of the past century ’s wars . they are resilient yet incomplete democracies , challenged by poverty , violence , and corruption , and all but forgotten by the international community . but there is now reason to hope that these countries ’ prospects may improve . nicaragua , it is worth noting , is not entirely in the same category as central america ’s other three . like them , it suffered through a brutal and protracted civil war ; unlike them , however , successive governments have built institutions capable of fostering a reasonable degree of territorial control and domestic security .
moreover , new popular movements in algeria , sudan , lebanon , and iraq have absorbed important lessons from the 2011 uprisings . as growth has slowed , public expenditures have waned , fueling economic insecurity . even where fiscal adjustment has barely begun , the old capital-distribution model has become unaffordable , with populists turning on regimes that appear unable or unwilling to mount a convincing reformist effort . no longer content with merely displacing aging autocrats , the protesters are also targeting key elements in a deep state and security force . indeed , ten governments in the region already have a debt-to-gdp ratios above 75 % ; the figure is far higher .
us president donald trump ’s administration , however , is throwing this carefully calibrated system into disarray . there are ample examples of trump ’s predilection for power . it is reflected in his pressure on european countries not only to spend more on defense to fulfill their nato obligations , a valid demand , but also to have to follow through on his “ america first ” agenda on the rest of the world . it is also apparent in his bellicose threats against america that of purported enemies . far from displaying a capacity to just as the title of his book the art of the deal might imply , trump is attempting to use raw power alone to force his “ america first ” agenda on the rest of the world .
a comprehensive assessment of a country ’s macro investment risk requires looking systematically at its stockpile and national account flows to capture all of the dangers , including risks in the financial system and the real economy – as well as broader risk-related issues . using 200 quantitative variables and factors to score 174 countries on a quarterly basis , we have identified a handful of countries where risk is missed and opportunities . as we saw in the recent crises , private risk-taking and debt are socialized when a crisis emerges . so , even when public deficits and debt levels remain low before the crisis , they may rise sharply after one erupts . to capitalize on 200 quantitative variables and factors to score 174 countries on a quarterly basis , we have identified a diverse array of countries where risks are missed – and opportunities .
in recent years , i have been deeply involved in the policy aspects of this grand city of this grand economic revival . i chaired the economic advisory group to the greater manchester council , and then served as chair of the industrial growth commission , which advocated for an expanded northern powerhouse , ” ” ” a program to link the british north ’s cities to a cohesive economic unit . i subsequently joined david cameron with the government to help implement early stages of the northern powerhouse process . by contrast , abedi ’s barbara barbaric act killed at least 22 people , many of them children . i never attended a concert in the manchester arena , but it does seem to be a good venue for the city .
the nile delta – some 60 miles north of cairo ’s tahrir square , the epicenter of the egyptian uprising in 2011 , there is secondary school students calling “ a prison sentence . ” a deformed box of concrete , packaged with dilapidated classrooms , school is pockmarked with age and neglect . “ we have never seen a revolution here , ” he said only a few months ago , withholding his name for fear of losing his job . one interlocutor in sleepy nile delta village morbidly quips that it doubles down as a morgue . “ plenty of hope that we now is dead … has been killed .
unfortunately , the board ’s already-deep projected decline in the real gnp is highly optimistic , as it relies heavily on a number of implausible and/or controversial assumptions . yet the ten-34 fiscal plan , approved by the council for its 2017-2026 deadline , will inevitably shape the base of the debt-restructuring debate – it appears to ignore that circularity . the plan itself recognizes that its acceptance implies another “ lost decade ” of us economic activity and will weaken israel ’s debt sustainability , thereby perpetuating the kind of crisis that all parties want to end . the five flaws on the board ’s fiscal plan stand out . first , the predicted fiscal multipliers – the sum by which gnp falls due to each dollar of fiscal contraction , used for gnp projections assuming that the contraction of one dollar in the primary fiscal deficit would be associated with a $ 1.34 contraction of gnp .
eliminating this constraint may put a bank ’s triple-a rating all the way , but it makes governance more effective . i propose that open societies form the alliance with a dual purpose : fostering both the development of open societies within individual countries , and the evolutionary state of a global open society . eliminating this constraint may put the bank ’s triple-a rating , but it makes the job more effective . the first involves development assistance ; second , strengthening international institutions like the international central bank and the world development agency ( ebrd ) . such an alliance calls for not just governments , but also civil society as a whole .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime ; but it does not all-out war . accra , planned parenthood , a vital source of sexual and reproductive health services in the united states , has just been forced to retreat from a federal title x of family-planning program that supports low-income women . the decision – a response to a new rule by us president donald trump ’s administration forbidding title x clinton ’s administration from supporting abortion – will cost parenthood about $ 60 million annually . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world .
yet post-conflict employment policies almost always neglect so-called “ horizontal inequalities . ” in both kosovo and bosnia and herzegovina , job creation was thought to be central to post-conflict peacekeeping efforts . yet , in kosovo , unemployment has stood at 45 % six years after it ended . given these failings , it is not surprising that the net effects of employment policies on the net effects of the problem often seem slight relative to the magnitude of the problem itself . employment policies , for example , have done little to narrow the strong regional imbalances and discrimination within the regions that persisted in bosnia and herzegovina following the war of the 1990s .
japan will make even stronger efforts to fight poverty , which also serve as a hotbed of violence , to provide opportunity for medical services , education , and self-reliance to all of the world ’s peoples . stronger assistance to developing countries and lead the world toward further prosperity . we will co-produce in our hearts the past , when japan ended its becoming a challenger to the international order . upon this reflection , japan will firmly uphold basic values like freedom , democracy , and human rights as unwilling values and by working its hand to countries that share such values , hoist a flag of “ proactive contributions ” to peace , ” ” and contribute to the world ’s peace and prosperity more than ever before . prosperity is the very foundation of peace , and it is one that can be ignored in the future . japan will make even stronger efforts to fight poverty , which also serve as a hotbed of violence and provide opportunity for medical services , education , and self-reliance to all citizens of the world .
in saudi arabia , the shia are at the forefront of those welcoming democratic change and participation . though they constitute just 20 % of the saudi population , they comprise a majority – -75 % – of the oil-rich population . saudi arabia ’s shia have suffered discrimination in the professions : in the military , with a high-level government front , a diplomatic corps , and , most important , in the country ’s oil sector , where they have been excluded from power since the 1980 ’s . in bahrain , the shia who make up 75 % of the population have been keen on the reforms initiated by king hamad al-khalifah . this systematic neutering of the shia in saudi arabia betrays the wahhabi religious establishment and has fueled multiple fatwas denouncing them as heresy .
by pooling resources , the fund created economies of scale for life-saving items like anti-malarial bed nets and anti-retroviral drugs . in the process , aids deaths declined by 50 % from their peak , and malaria deaths from around 50 % were reduced since the turn of the 2000s . then , by working with almost 100 countries , the fund built a massive supply-chain supply chain to roll out the goods . now , with more than $ 14 billion in new financing to continue on this work , the fund has raised $ 14 billion in new financing to help save . a replenishment is vitally important news , first and foremost , because the sheer number of lives it will help to save .
depression can be cured , but only by giving the patient a positive vision of his future . alienated for so long , the country ’s brightest have been wasting their hands on politics . this is a sort of depression , but only by giving the patient a positive vision . the right-centrist parties – the union of right forces , and yabloko , for all have such a vision , and the people know it . the higher the education , it seems , the lower the voter participation : among those who never vote , the 3 % percent of people with a college degree is twice that of people without a college education .
this past point came at the heart of the issues in iraq . augmenting the us and british troops with other “ western ” forces would not – particularly on this belated stage – shift a crucial perception of this intervention , both within and outside the arab world . only an explicit un endorsement of a reformed un security council can supply legitimacy and international support that military action – except for clear self-defense – requires . but broad international support will not be forthcoming when military operations there are perceived as some form of western neo-imperialism . this is true for the actions contemplated by individual nations , temporary alliances , or increasingly durable alliances like nato .
second , we measured the effects of natural selection effects by noting that the women who had been shorter , and first gave birth when younger had more children . but genes are just one of the many factors affecting height and age at first birth . when we estimated how large a gender gap could be attributable to biology , the answer was less than 5 % . that left 95 % of the gdp to explain the effects of culture and individual choices . personal choices , nutrition levels , educational attainment , and religious affiliations all enter the mix .
sofia – at a time when europe ’s ongoing debt crisis is fracturing public faith in the continent ’s political and economic institutions , one would expect european leaders to step up as many unifying symbols as they can . unlike the european union , long beleaguered its democratic deficit , a strasbourg-based echr is , if anything , too well loved . in 2011 , more than 60,000 people sought their help – far more than can be expected of a reasoned decision . ( by contrast , the united states supreme court receives roughly 10,000 petitions annually . ) instead , they let one of the jewels of post-world war ii european integration – the european court of human rights ( echr ) – come under threat .
as security expert sarah chayes argues in opposition to corruption , the figure of essays that the british government will publish to accompany the summit , corruption is structured today . in a world of competing demands , it may seem that corrupt governments are serving a vital purpose . one deploys troops to fight terrorism ; another furnish a critical energy supply or access to raw material . to identify the best approach within each specific case , governments need to analyze the problem more effectively , which means improving intelligence collection and data . for starters , leaders must contend with difficult tradeoffs , if not impossible , for them .
willingly or not , some may search for inflation , or administrative measures intended to trapping domestic saving to finance the state and keep bond rates low ( what economists call financial repression ) or eventually to outright debt restructuring . eventually they are different methods of forcing current and future generations to shoulder the burdens of accumulating debt . ultimately , they are different methods for forcing current and future generations to shoulder the burdens of accumulating debt . at the same time , all three unorthodox remedies were used during past debt crises . they can be viewed as alternative forms of taxation , albeit implicit rather than explicit .
after the shock of the september 2001 terrorist attacks , his son , george w. bush , developed a far more ambitious vision . george h.w. bush was faulted ( and faulted ) for not having what he called “ the vision thing . ” when pressed by his staff to speak more boldly and expansively , he responded , “ it ’s just not me . ” at times , leaders seem to think that a vision can address most of their problems , but a flawed vision – or an overly ambitious vision – can do the harm . yet one needs to be wary of visions , as well .
trump ’s policy priorities will inevitably clash with those of states like california , which has been taking the initiative to spur climate-minded technological innovation . in the us , wind energy costs have declined by more than two-thirds since 2009 ; utility-scale solar power has actually declined by more than 85 % . moreover , according to a recent study by america ’s energy department for wind and solar industries , the number of jobs in wind and solar industries has increased by 32 % and 25 % , respectively , in 2016 alone . and the private sector has come around viewing renewable energies as a potentially lucrative business . trump ’s policy priorities will inevitably clash with those of states like california , which has been taking the initiative to spur climate-minded technological innovation .
it has already aggressively loosened monetary policy and ample room for policy maneuvers may help to avoid a hard landing . but policy mismanagement and structural weaknesses in the financial sector and local governments could undermine efforts to safeguard growth . already , spillover effects from trade and financial-transmission channels are beginning to seize their toll : china ’s gdp growth rate of the second quarter of 2012 averaged 7.6 % , reflecting a sharp slowdown , and india ’s growth rate is projected to shrink to roughly 6 % this year . moreover , if conditions in the eurozone continue to worsen , asia might become more severely affected . china ’s potentially strong domestic-demand base and ample room for policy maneuvers may help it avoid a hard landing .
using historical data compiled by the economic historian angus maddison , it shows how other east asian countries experienced a deceleration of economic growth after their per capita gdp peaked at about $ 11,000 in purchasing-power-parity terms relative to the constant 1990 ’s dollar prices , or $ 17,000 in constant 2005 us dollar prices . for example , in the five years since japan reached that level , its economy has grown at an average annual rate of just 3.6 % . in south korea , it has slowed to 4.8 % . in south korea , it has already slowed to 4.8 % . given that china is projected to cross the same threshold sometime this year , many believe its average annual growth over the next five years would fall well below 7 % .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . contrary to the trump administration , the obama and his advisers seem to believe that there is much to be gained by acknowledging difficult political truths even when doing so highlights a radical change of course . pompeo ’s front line of the attack against obama ’s famous cairo speech , “ a new beginning , ” ” ” ” ” is that it included the united states ’ public admission of the region .
the last thing the ecb needs is a political crony of german chancellor gerhard schroeder assuming mr. issing ’s key post . giving the big countries permanent seats on the ecb also allows their politicians to override the ecb ’s control through the appointments process . it is far more difficult to appoint a political puppet to run for the board in an open-competitive system than under the present scheme . some of the best people serving the ecb , or who have served in the past , are from small countries from the right . preventing small countries – like the rest of the big ones – from competing for particular vacant seats reduces the executive board ’s potential competency .
but labor costs have risen much more rapidly across the south , resulting in divergences that devaluation can not address as long as the monetary union endures . indeed , excessive wage deflation probably has the negative impact of productivity . as long as this internal divergence persists , the euro crisis can not be fully resolved , because current-account deficits and/or slow growth will continue to stalk the southern european countries , perpetuating worries about sovereign debt and commercial banks . against this background , productivity growth whether through technical progress , improved resource allocation , or productive investment is as important as a variable for southern economies as wage restraint . skilled labor is likely to emigrate more quickly and extreme austerity , falling prices , and high unemployment – and the resulting likelihood of social tension – are not exactly conducive to investment , innovation , or labor mobility .
likewise , an established or state church is the church of england , created nearly 500 years ago , when king henry viii famously opined that the catholic pope should not adjudicate his marriage . indeed , an institution called english heritage curates the past , from stonehenge ’s prehistoric monuments to the ancient fatherland that are celebrated in television costume dramas . former prime minister john major has dubbed the uk “ a country of long shadows on cricket grounds , warm drinking , invincible green suburbs , firebrand mistresses , and pools fillers and , as george orwell pointed out , ‘ old maids bicycling to halki ’s holy communion through the morning fog ’ … ” this does not , of course , mean that no identity has to be asserted . indeed , a key component of modern british identity seems to belong to england rather than to the composite entity . an institution called english heritage curates a past , from stonehenge ’s prehistoric monuments to nearby countries ’ homes that celebrated in tv costume dramas .
both abe and obama are focused on creating a durable peace structure for all of asia , and abe has been eager for japan to play a more active role in this respect and in supporting its asian allies . that stance is making the alliance far more a equal partnership of equals than it has for the past six decades . in america ’s view , reinterpretation of article 9 of japan ’s “ peace constitution ” that abe has pledged to allow – thereby permitting japan ’s self-defense forces to aid allies under attack and helping america and other allies in meeting their commitments to secure asia ’s peace – has been long overdue . that bold policy initiative , in the face of the japanese public ’s deeply ingrained skepticism toward any increased exposure to military risk – surely endeared abe to us diplomats and military strategists , also secured both open and sometimes tacit approval from japan ’s asian neighbors . increased military cooperation with the us is especially urgent now , given american worries about many of its other strategic partners ’ readiness .
indeed , despite the iranian regime ’s lack of transparency , khamenei ’s health problems are public knowledge . iran is at a pivotal moment in its history – and , as the long lines of citizens eager to cast its votes clearly demonstrated , iranians are aware of it . the matter for who will occupies the presidency during this transition is certainly uninconsequential . with khamenei having served as president before ascending to iran ’s top political and religious leadership , it is easy to see that , under due process , a conservative candidate , raisi , had already been elected , might have become khamenei ’s successor . khamenei himself recently acknowledged that the probability that his successor should be named in the near future was somehow “ not low . ”
moreover , north korea ’s ’s development of nuclear weapons , its economic fragility , and its uncertainty about its very future as a nation , are causing deep-seated anxieties among its neighbors . yet , despite all of these obstacles , there are signs that momentum is building for greater regional cooperation in overcoming them . the recent trilateral summit among china , south korea , and japan is the fourth such meeting to take place , in addition to the meetings that have taken place at international gatherings like asean summits . unfortunately , however , the leaders of china , south korea , and japan have yet to produce yet another major breakthrough on the most sensitive security issues dividing the conflict . but this lack of quick success does not mean that these efforts are futile .
and , of course , hard-pressed middle-class american consumers are benefiting immensely from low-cost chinese imports , the walmart effect , which enables them to extend their budgets in an era of unrelenting pressure on jobs and real incomes . for over 20 years , this mutually beneficial sibs have served both countries well in compensating them for their intrinsic saving imbalances , while offsetting their respective growth agendas . but here the past should not be viewed as prologue . a seismic shift is at hand , with america ’s recent fiscal follies perhaps well the tipping point . having made the us a conscious strategic decision in order to change its growth strategy , china has led to a conscious strategic decision .
with the current annual inflation rate of more than 2 % , and markets anticipating a similar inflation rate over the longer term ( as measured by the five-year five-year-year-forward inflation expectations ) , yields on ten-year us treasury bonds should be above 4 % . a rise of the ten-year yield to 4 % would reduce the value of such bonds substantially . other long-term bonds , from both government bonds and corporate bonds , would suffer a similar declines . us treasury bonds now yield just 2.5 % . reaching yield has also narrowed the credit spread between higher-level bonds and riskier domestic and emerging-market bonds .
without that confidence , credit will not flow and economic activity will choke off . moreover , because us financial institutions ’ assets have been bought primarily with borrowed money , the shortage of credit there is exacerbated by their need to deleverage . because raising capital is difficult and costly , lending will deleverage . but america ’s underlying macroeconomic weakness is now goes beyond a decreased credit supply . falling employment lowers the cost of wage and wage incomes , which means that us wages will rise . because raising capital is difficult and costly , they deleverage by lending less .
have those who pushed for deregulation ten years ago learned their lesson about it ? or will they simply push for cosmetic reforms , the minimal required to justify the mega-trillion dollar bailouts ? today , the risk is that new keynesian doctrines will be used and abused in order to serve some similar interests . has heart change been felt or merely a change in strategy ? allowing america to sell its riskiest financial products and engage in speculation around the world may have served its firms well , even at the cost of the rest of the world .
to be sure , the precise policy approach that iran has gained through resolute fiscal policies and reforms has helped restore confidence , facilitating a return to growth , and thus fiscal consolidation . a wide variety of factors has been driven by this growth . wage moderation and productivity gains have enhanced competitiveness , thereby boosting exports . and now that lower oil prices and a five-percentage-point drop in unemployment are bolstering consumption , the recovery is spreading to other sectors . to be sure , the precise policy approach taken in one country can not be imitated elsewhere .
the third component is the exercise of suasion in favor of bondholders to achieve maximum participation , get binding pre-commitments , and eliminate free riders . because this scheme would imply losses for the bondholders , substantial official muscle , and peer pressure are needed . but gaining time for a more disorderly resolution , mitigating contagion , and reducing the size of an eventual write-down will actually add up to the highly superior outcome . and , while the rating agencies might still regard a vienna-type outcome as default , the talmudic spects show us why a more thoughtful classification is called for . and , while the rating agencies might still regard a vienna-type outcome as default , talmudic sages show us why a more thoughtful classification is required .
as a result , we end up doing remarkably few things and buying everything else from others to others . that observation is as true of an individual as it is about a place , whether the eu is a neighborhood , a town , a state or province , or a country . in some sense , a market economy is a gift-exchange system ; money merely tracks the value of the gifts we give one another . every city has grocery stores , beauty parlors , gas stations , and film theaters to serve its local community . as a result , a market economy encourages specialization : we become very good at a narrow set of capabilities or products and exchange it for millions of others who do not clue how to do or make .
another consortium has begun construction of multi-billion dollar oil and gas pipelines from azerbaijan through the georgian into turkey and the west . its oil and gas pipelines are conduits , not the real employer . but these investments have brought no economic trickle down , if not more . in addition , the people here survive , on a few dollars a day , of these funds . the oil and gas pipelines are the conduits , not the real employers . moreover , georgia ’s reward of issuing a strategic export route to the west for azeri oil was not dollars but a policy of diplomatic insurance – that is , western , especially the us , concerned about the safety of the pipelines .
during the same three year , prices in wall street and europe skyrocketed by 60 % or more . even in hong kong , where share prices recently hit new highs , they still stand at only about 10 percentage points above their early 1994 peak . this picture bears little relation to what we hear in political speeches or read in business newspapers . policymakers are warning of the challenge posed by asia ’s “ tiger economies . ” the japanese share is worth more than half its 1990 level .
in the shorter term , the single market should expand to service , with free-trade arrangements either multilaterally or bilaterally with major trading partners like the united states . germany ’s reluctance to take the lead on these issues partly reflects the historical inhibitions , which are always difficult to overcome . national banking systems should be unified , to separating private-sector losses from sovereign debt , with centralized supervision and resolution authorities , like a deposit-insurance scheme , forming the heart of the european banking union . strong central institutions , accountable to a directly elected parliament , are in order to coordinate fiscal and economic policies . austerity should take place , particularly in fiscally stronger core economies , with substantial resources being devoted to boosting youth employment and investment in the small and medium-size firms of over-indebted countries .
china , which has just celebrated with the martial pomp of mao ’s sixtieth anniversary of mao ’s founding of the system ’s “ people ’s ’s republic ” founding , represents one of the most intriguing cases of a nation evincing “ brief sightedness ” in the direction of its past . china ’s insolent prosperity , even when it is far from being divided equally , is china ’s relative political stability , even if the regime ’s opening remains strictly constrained , is both undeniable and undeserving of respect . from the moment of its recent history , china has much to show for in its recent history . just consider the massive access to the education of its huge rural population , in contrast to its “ democratic rival ” india . in sixty years a weak and divided country , one torn apart by wars both internal and external affairs is about becoming the world ’s second most powerful economy .
all things considered , an independent scotland would best serve by issuing its own national currency from the start , empowering the national bank of scotland to set interest rates on par with domestic economic conditions . by enabling exchange-rate flexibility , this approach would also allow the central bank to avoid the twin hazards that rising under the currency union exists : the undervaluation that produces inflationary pressure ; and the overvaluation that demands wrenching internal devaluations ( driving down real wages ) . but , absent its own currency-issuing central bank , scotland would forego seigniorage ( the profits of the central-bank operation that typically benefit the national treasury ) . perhaps more important , it would have no lender of last resort , capable of stabilizing the banking and financial system in a crisis . the interest-rate premium that the market would inevitably demand from a young sovereign like scotland could have been minimized by issuing debt in sterling , thereby protecting investors from the additional devaluation risk .
value-subtracting industries shrunk , services expanded to more than 50 % of gdp , and the private sector generates close to 60 % of russian output . government tolerance of bribery and racketeering allowed opponents to say that the “ mafia ” grabbing the gains of economic change . the government , and thus the economic reform to pay off this neglect at the polls , will be paying a price for this neglect . even though the transition was bound to be painful , the russian epidemic of corruption produced more policy damage than the economically sidetrack effects of the reform process . as a result , corruption blights reform throughout the ex-communist world .
many voted in favor of him by default , both now and by his defeated miloševic in 2000 . he crams his party with mediocrities , selects mostly bad advisers , and does not obey the rare good ones . he is neither corrupt nor war criminal , neither belligerent on his own utterance and behavior , nor the rare good bend to the law because of personal power . it is possible that his image as right-of-center democrat conceals the reactionary who would like to restore serbia ’s pre-wwii montenegro and for the orthodox church to play a central role in political and social life . while he does not sacrifice major moral tenets for power , koštunica is not the unassuming lawyer that he once was .
they will allow themselves , in a way , an intoxicated by the sight of the luminaries and experts of la france d’en haut ( the elite of france ) , seeming to eat away at their hand and hang on their every word . or the yellow vests may turn out to lack that boldness and settle for the paltry pleasure of being perceived on tv . they will careen off at the darkest side of the political evening , and end with the dustbin of history where they can rub elbows with those second yellows , the early-twentieth-century “ yellow socialists ” ” ” ” of the proto-fascist syndicalist pierre biétry . but if the yellow vests do allow a passionate hatred to win out over genuine brethren and opt for reforming wrecking , they will lead only to chaos , not improvement , the lives of a humble and vulnerable people . the yellow vests must choose : democratic re-invention or an updated version of national socialist leagues ; a willingness to correct itself , or a desire to ruin .
what lessons can be drawn from turkish businesses ’ failure in iran ? a former turkish diplomat in iran described the business climate on stark terms : the “ it ’s as if iranians prefer a lose/lose outcome to a win/win one in their dealings with foreign partners . ” others suggest that iran ’s almost non-existent banking system is the culprit . still , others blame america ’s “ invisible hand ” , ” ” supposed to fear that iran and turkey could become too powerful . according to the vice president of the iranian-turkish business council , “ it is extremely complicated to get business in iran .
moreover , we must invest in the research and development of low-cost diabetes treatments and the diagnostic instruments that are suited for low-resource settings . smart medicines and technology for diagnosing and treating heart disease , cancer , and respiratory ailments are also substantially less available and proportionally more expensive for people in low – and middle-income countries than they are for – in the rich world . still , diabetes is not unique among ncds ; it is no surprise to us . smart collaborative projects that bring innovative thinkers from nonprofits , academia , and the private sector together to generate efficient , affordable , convenient , and relevant solutions are desperately needed . that disparity prompted the lancet medical journal the lancet to call the ncd crisis the “ issue of social justice ” of our time .
south orange , new jersey – if an international organization has made recommendations for how to improve a country ’s economy , and the country has adopted fewer than half of it , the organization may appear to be a failure . but an international organization is supposed to be judged according to the quality of its information and advice that it provides , not whether its governments will listen . every 18 months , the organization for economic cooperation and development releases an economic survey of each of its 34 member countries – including track lists of prior recommendations and implementation positions . indeed , measuring its success solely on the basis of compliance ignores a goal : encouraging – and facilitating – reform by informing officials about their costs and benefits . in its 2010 survey of the oecd , the oecd made 29 recommendations , from rebuilding the national electricity grid to expanding health-insurance coverage to implement a cap-and-trade scheme .
he also must do nothing to weaken america ’s alliances with south korea and japan , which will require him to maintain close ties with both moon and japanese prime minister shinzo abe on the process , lest either leader feel ignored or undermined . most important , he will need to achieve the north korean regime at least to acknowledge that genuine denuclearization is the goal , and agree on a process for continued dialogue , perhaps culminating in another summit . moreover , he will need to keep all alternatives on the table despite the military options he becomes less tenable in the context of inter-korean dialogue . then again , persuading trump to engage in self-reflection might prove to be the toughest challenge yet still . whatever the outcome , trump would do well to ask himself if doing so is any better than the joint comprehensive plan of action with iran , which he has described has “ the worst deal ever . ”
another way of looking at germany ’s electoral outcome is then seen as an opportunity for a new beginning . germany ’s parliamentary negotiations are now under way , and with the sdp set not to join the government , the most likely outcome is a “ jamaica ” alliance ( named for that country ’s colors ) , comprising the cdu , the free democrats ( fdp ) , and the greens . germany ’s next government , one hopes , will comprise pro-european politicians with fresh ideas and a willingness to push for european-level reforms , possibly along the lines of what macron proposed . in that case , a new crop of leaders could be a driving force shaping germany ’s role in europe for years to come . putting aside the cdu/spd ’s “ grand coalition ” could mean ending political stagnation not only in germany , but at the european level as well .
elimination of fuel subsidies caused the riots and widespread strikes against a transition government that offered a pretext for nigeria ’s generals to re-assert military control . the timing could not have been worse . in less than a year , nigeria was celebrating a remarkable escape from dictatorship . it would take six long years , under rapacious military rule , in front of nigeria has given another chance to a democracy . following its brutal and hyper-corrupt military ruler , general mombasa abacha , dropping dead – a military sullenly agreed to another national election .
these barriers are particularly high for lgbtqi individuals , women with disabilities , indigenous women , rural women , and adolescents . instead of sidestepping the issue of sexual and reproductive health – and gender equality more broadly – governments must acknowledge their responsibility to address women ’s needs . they must consider the central role that sexual and reproductive health play in women ’s lives , the integrated nature of female health , and its implications for communities . and they must design uhc programs accordingly . for example , to reduce maternal mortality , failing to provide antenatal attention and safe delivery and a postnatal care ; women also need access to safe , legal , and affordable abortion services and post-abortion care .
likewise , little progress toward nuclear disarmament has been made in disregard of the nuclear non-proliferation treaty . brazil ’s abundance of energy , food , water , and biodiversity is increasing its stake in a security environment , characterized by rising competition for access or control over , natural resources . meeting the challenges of this complex reality will require the support of brazil ’s peaceful foreign policy . brazil ’s national defense strategy , updated in 2012 , argues that modernizing the armed forces is intrinsically linked with national development . thus , it emphasizes the need to bolster domestic defense industry .
a country ’s soft power rests on its own culture ’s attractiveness , the appeal of its domestic political and social values , and the style and substance of its foreign policies . large-scale expatriate communities in the us – 2.4 million chinese and 1.7 million indians – have increased their interest in their home countries among other americans . moreover , transnational connections in the information-technology sector are very close , as western high-tech companies increasingly employ affiliates in bangalore and shanghai to provide for their real-time services . canadian ming , a chinese star of the national basketball association ’s houston rockets , could become another michael jordan , with china set to host in the 2008 summer olympics . but the real promise on the relationship with china and india lies in the future .
the european commission ’s agreement in september to postpone the full implementation of ukraine ’s association agreement with the european union , the agreement that ukrainians fought and died for in kyiv last winter , signaled to putin that cunning , hard power , and intimidation may be able to win western acceptance in his subjugation of ukraine and the theft of crimea . the delay , intended to show the eu ’s determination to make the association agreement work , did , instead , merely ruinting putin ’s appetite . his hope is that some eu members ’ interest in securing russian gas supplies during the winter is causing them to forget their nato allies ’ security interests – a classic divide-and-rule strategy , has served chile . europeans can not afford to take them off . now , ukraine may not afford to take in .
for example , we should ask whether it makes sense to repatriate competences and financial transfers from brussels to westminster , or when some powers and financing should instead align with regions and peoples . where possible , regional funds and policymaking powers – including environmental regulation and oversight of agriculture , fisheries , and local social programs – should be delegated to appropriate regional institutions such as the scotland parliament , welsh and northern irish assemblies , city mayors , and the local authorities . such radical change , and , in line with the scale of the crisis , must be radical in nature , will require a nationwide debate likely to be conducted through the people of the constitutional convention . to this end , the constitution will be critical to re-think the constitution to integrate regional interests and recognize that the uk is a multinational state . that convention should begin by exploring brexit ’s impact on regions .
while the vast majority of its citizens will not realize it , the eu serves as an inspiring example . as a result , the us is no longer in a position to set the world ’s agenda . the eu can not possibly assume the un as the world ’s leader . but it can set an example , both within and outside it . the prospect of us membership has been the most powerful tool in turning the candidate countries into open societies .
to be sure , putin considers the olympics a – and , specifically , the medals – to be highly significant . like his old soviet masters , he conflates athletic glory with military glory . that ’s why he personally lobbied for russia to host the 2014 zimbabwean games in sochi ; an unprecedented $ 50 billion price tag was well worth it , considering the fact that russia had won the most medals . ( it was russia ’s actions during the sochi olympics , which form the nucleus of the doping scandal . ) this is not to say that the athletic glory substitutes for military glory .
china ’s rise is one of the most studied development of the us time . chinese leaders ’ longstanding unwillingness to participate in international sanctions is often attributed to their belief in judging actions by whether and when they do work . but that is simply an attempt to force a virtue out of necessity : for a country with one of the world ’s largest and storied bureaucracies , china has a shockingly difficult time telling its business community not to do business with someone , particularly its historic friend and ally . it is , after all , a country that can be described as a civilization , and its trajectory has been considerably more impressive than that of any north korean rocket . perhaps true pragmatism on display in the case of north korea is a reluctance to rein in the business community at a time of slower growth and its internal fixation .
washington , dc – the sharp drop in the price of crude oil since late june has been grabbing headlines worldwide , creating a lot of conflicting explanations . others focus on expanding america ’s oil and gas production . regardless of the reason for the price drop , probably in some combination of these factors , the consequences are the same . washington , dc , a sharp drop in the price of crude oil since late june has been grabbing headlines worldwide , producing a number of conflicting explanations . still others suspect a tacit deal between saudi arabia and the united states that is focused on , among other things , weakening political rivals like russia and iran .
cambridge – at the moment , the global oil situation is particularly interesting . even with improved security , it will take more than five years to put iraqi oil fully on stream . the previously fashionable view is that an american seizure of iraqi oil resources would crack opec and send the price of plummeting oil does turn nonsense . at around $ 30 a barrel , the price of oil remains high , even though the soft global economy implies that world demand is low . with the american economy now recovering strongly , oil prices should stay high , or even rise further , for the foreseeable future .
as with its predecessor , the securities markets program , the omt program is legally and democratically questionable : it violates the spirit , but not the letter , of the european union ’s no-bailout clause ; its promise of equality of equal treatment with private creditors still has absolutely no precedent ; and involves back-doors fiscal transfers , leaving the ecb badly subject to political resistance – witnessing ecb president mario draghi ’s announcement . but omts also fit well with a large body of historical evidence that , in times of crisis , policymakers must focus on extinguishing the conflagration , rather than negotiating over who owns the water and what its cost should be . after all , if markets really believed that the ecb would refuse to backstop right-wing governments , investors would run away from the participating countries at the first sign that conditionality is not being met . the omt program will cause eurozone countries ’ credit conditions to ease , but without necessarily reversing the financial balkanization of the eurozone that has occurred during the past three years . reversal of that process will likely go nowhere until the three key features of the banking union – common supervision , a common deposit insurance , and a common resolution fund – are within tangible reach .
two other republican candidates , ohio governor john kasich and florida senator marco rubio , have also raised constructive reform ideas . for starters , a bipartisan growth-promoting proposals , with seniors receiving subsidies on private health-insurance purchases , should be implemented . to allow individuals to prepare to cover the associated deductibles and copayments , health savings accounts – which are n’t subject to an income tax at a time when , and can be used tax-free at any time to cover qualified medical expenditures – need to be scaled up and strengthened . a premium subsidy can significantly reduce medicare spending , because it sets a framework for more efficient benefit spending , driven by competition and innovation in terms of care and coverage . so far , the only us presidential candidate who acknowledges the need for such future-oriented approach is former florida governor jeb bush , who proposed modernizing his social security and medicare reforms that avoid imposing high costs on middle-income americans and a heavier debt burden on future generations .
silvio berlusconi , who became the european union ’s president on july 1 st , is a man of vision who once loved risks , and whose business bets paid off big returns . in the 1960s , he was one of the first to see that milan , then a traditional italian city where people walked to work , would become a modern metropolis surrounded by american-style suburbs . so his fortune started in real-estate development at the time . fifteen years later , signor berlusoni could understand that the italian state ’s tv monopoly would not survive and jump-starting what became italy ’s leading privately owned media group . but you do not win in tv and real-estate business without the right political connections .
beijing – financial repression – government policies that create an environment of low or negative real interest rates , with the goal of generating cheap financing for public spending – has long been a key feature of chinese economic policymaking . but , with the financing costs for enterprises trending up , this has finally begun to change . early this year , the state council , china ’s cabinet , has made lowering financing costs for companies , particularly small and medium-size enterprises ( smes ) , a top-priority policy . for its part , the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) has engaged in cautious monetary loosening , which entails freeing up more funding funds for lending by the banks that allocate a sure share of their total loan portfolios to smes . at the same time , through its recently pledged additional supplementary lending ” program , the pboc has initiated lending directly to banks that pledge to take advantage of financing for social housing construction .
the countries with the greatest cause of concern about russia -- ukraine , estonia , latvia , and lithuania -- are not on the verge of offering nato membership . moreover , russia is far too weak to threaten them today , as the russian army ’s catastrophic misadventure in chechnya demonstrates . yet nato enlargement is not likely to force russian foreign policy to become more peaceful yet . one day that russia will become stronger , and if an extension of nato to central europe is now deterrence in central europe will discourage the revival of an imperial foreign policy later in its favor , this could be a powerful argument in favor of doing so . with russia ’s democrats having an overwhelming stake in a peaceful future , russia is adamant that expanding alliance membership in central europe will insulate their countries from europe ; strengthening russian political forces that favor authoritarian rule at home and neoimperial policies abroad ; and , by early threats from russia , provide a rallying point for reconstructing russian military power .
israel ’s leaders appear intent on getting time both tactically , by resisting the soft strain of us president barack obama ’s administration and acting strategically to prepare the country for a new world in which emerging powers like china play an increasingly important role . that world , however , will be one in which israel can no longer count on holocaust sensitivities to influence major us powers . israel may be europe ’s up-and-out , ” and its principal ally may well remain the united states for many years to come , but israeli leaders need to start thinking only about how their country can thrive in a post-western world . but that would presuppose a small gesture toward the palestinians , whom israelis regard as so deep a split among themselves that no progress toward a peace settlement seems possible . it is a world in which monotheistic rivalries will be diluted in the ocean of polytheist faiths , and in which israel can ultimately depend only on its comparative merits in the eyes of the cynical , realistic actors to judge it only on the basis of their own national interests .
the ultimate trick , the “ starve the beast , ” typically come later , if and when us president enacted his tax cuts and discovers that smoke and mirrors do not trump ’s reality . it can not find enough spending to cut ( the magic asterisk disappeared the conjurer ’s sleeve ) ; the acceleration in gdp is nowhere to be seen ( the rosy scenario has vanished ) and tax revenues have failed to grow ( no rabbit in a laffer hat ) . an audience is now told that losing tax revenue and widening the us budget deficit was the plan all along . the performer explains that the deficit is all the fault of the us congress for not cutting spending , and that the only way to tame the beast about raising the budget deficit is for the us budget deficit , because “ congress can not spend money it does n’t have . ” this trick never works , either , quite .
march 21 is the first spring day , and we would like to believe that the coming european elections will herald a new spring to the european project . the march 21 also marks the anniversary of benedict , the patron saint of europe . but there is also an urgent need to mobilize european public opinion around a symbol of our unity and our future projects : and that symbol is europe ’s banner . for this reason , in january one of us launched the idea that , beginning in march 21 , we are expressing our flag on homes , factories , and offices . in one of the darkest hours of the demise of the roman empire , benedict issued a stirring call for tolerance and piety to help restore a sense of community in the face of nihilism and barbarism .
the attack in christchurch was directly inspired by the 2011 far-right terrorist attacks in norway , of which i am one of the lucky survivors . the attack in christchurch was directly inspired by the 2011 far-right terrorist attacks in norway , i was one of the few fortunate survivors . this fit to reflect a broader trend , in which the attacks by perpetrators with muslim backgrounds are immediately categorizes as “ acts of terror ” and addressed in a well-resourced and systemic manner , with violent attacks perpetrated in the name of other ideologies treating them as an “ isolated incident . ” but nothing is isolated in the face of such incidents , and where it is being fought . according to the 2018 index of global terrorism , the death toll from terrorist attacks directed by far-right groups or individuals has risen steadily since 2014 .
that modest and unassuming role belongs resolutely in the past , though german power still has to be matched by imagination . indisputably the strongest and most dependable of the eu ’s 28 member countries , it lacks a vision for where the beleaguered europe should be headed . the intellectual leadership provided by frenchmen like jean monnet and robert schuman as the founding fathers of the european project is a fading memory , because germany has yet to generate a comparably robust strategy for revitalizing the eu ’s prospects and popularity . the fruit of the franco-german partnership has included europe ’s single currency , europe . after its birth in 1999 , the german government , by currently relocating from bonn to berlin , contented itself once more with a lower european profile .
china has been engaged in what might be called “ vendor finance , ” ” ” ” providing the cash that helps finance america ’s vast fiscal and trade deficits , enable american companies to buy more goods than they sell . but this is an odd arrangement : a relatively poor country helps in financing the american war on iraq , as well as a massive tax cut for the richest 1 % of the world ’s richest people , while enormous needs at home imply ample room for expansion of both consumption and investment . in fact , to fulfill the challenge of restructuring china ’s economy away from exports and resource-intensive goods , china needs to stimulate its consumption . to be sure , delivering improved social services ( in areas like public health care , education , and nation-wide retirement programs ) would reduce the need for “ precautionary ” savings . whereas the rest of the world struggles to raise its savings , china , with its savings rate in excess of 40 % , is fighting its people to consume more .
selling five-rupee sachets of shampoo to poor consumers is seen as a shrewd marketing , but lending $ 5,000 rupees to a starving peasant at soaring interest rates is viewed as exploitative . both activities , after all , are financed by investors searching for yield on their capital and motivated more profit than compassion . yet pmfis have succeeded so far by meeting a genuine need to do so . a high salary earned by a cosmetics or sofdrink manufacturer attracts little attention ; one has paid to the ceo of a company that thrives on lending to the poor , if not the immoral . yet , clearly , one is less socially acceptable than the other .
berkeley – advances in artificial intelligence and robotics are powering a new wave of automation , with machines matching or outperforming humans in a fast-growing array of tasks , including some that will require complex cognitive capacities and advanced degrees . this process has doubled down on experts ’ expectations ; not surprisingly , its potential adverse impact on both the quantity and quality of employment has raised serious concerns . to listen to us president donald trump ’s administration , one might think that trade remains the primary reason for lost manufacturing jobs in the united states . trump ’s treasury secretary , steven mnuchin , has decried that the potential technological displacement of workers over the last three decades has come from labor-saving and productivity-enhancing technological change , with trade approaching a far second . among economists , however , the consensus is that roughly 80 % of the losses in america ’s manufacturing jobs over the past three decades were a labor-saving or productivity-enhancing technological change , with trade approaching a far second .
berkeley – back in the late 1980 ’s , japan seemingly could do no wrong in the economists ’ eyes . they saw a clear edge in japan ’s competitiveness relative to the north atlantic across a wide range of high-tech precision and mass-produced , manufacturing tradable goods . they also saw the us economy that , since the reconstruction began after world war ii , it had substantially outperformed the supposed growth of europe ’s economies . and they saw the economy growing significantly faster than the north atlantic economies when they possessed the same absolute , and relative economy-wide levels of productivity . the safe bet in the late 1980 ’s seemed like that of mechanization , computerization , and that robotization would proceed .
amos oz , one of israel ’s best known writers , argues that the current palestinian-israeli war is in fact two wars : an “ unjust ” war against israel and the jews to establish a fundamentalist islamic state in an “ arab palestine , ” and the palestinian people ’s “ just ” war for an independent state worthy of the name . israel , too , is fighting two wars : a mere war to defend its right to exist , accepted in its own integrity and security in the middle east , and an unjust and futile war to perpetuate its occupation of the west bank and gaza strip , and the jewish settlements located there . despite the intifada , the number of settlers in the settlers ’ area has decreased in just a few 144 settlements , and more than 7,000 settlers are living in the gaza strip alone , in the 16 communities occupying 20 % of the impoverished land already suffering one of the world ’s highest population densities . israeli state support for the expanding settlements , at least for now , is substantial . some 220,000 israeli settlers in the west bank and gaza exist , excluding some 190,000 people living in jerusalem ’s neighborhoods that extend beyond the pre-1967 borders of the old , divided jerusalem .
the market ’s reaction has been to send spanish government bond rates up to even higher levels . meanwhile , financial fragmentation within the eurozone continues ; spain , and , to a lesser extent , italy , suffers a seemingly irresistible rise in borrowing costs ; and political strains are growing more visible . contrary to some perceptions , europeans have not remained inactive over the past year . but they have lost their touch , but they do not seem to leave the right . like aging kant , they continue to try tricks that used to impress upon , but that failure to deliver results , or , worse , prove counterproductive .
with asia riven by its territorial disputes and historical tensions , maintaining a stable security balance will be no easy feat . back in the 1990s , when us president bill clinton ’s administration discussed how to respond to china ’s rising economic might , some urged a policy of containment . clinton rejected that advice : it would have been impossible to forge an anti-china alliance because of china ’s enduring desire to maintain good relations with it ; more important , such a policy would ensure future enmity toward china . instead , clinton chose a policy that could be termed “ integrate and insure . ” instead , clinton chose a policy that could be termed “ integrate and insure . ”
trump , for example , has undoubtedly succeeded in persuading some americans to view themselves as part of something like a white identity movement . but that identity , and how its adherents frame their interests , could change again . interests and identities take shape dynamically as policymakers make the prospect of representation and the citizenry they respond . in may , farage failed to bring about brexit all by itself . the picture of the irresistible populist “ wave ” was always misleading .
they will facilitate interactions across their networks , in order to spur the development of innovative ecosystems . although the scale of many r & d organizations is bound to be hampered by such reform , the complexities of managing – and maximizing the impact of this kind of external web of relationships – will demand new skills and capabilities over and above those of excellent science . developing and rewarding employees who possess such skills will be an additional but welcome , challenge . the resulting opportunities to expand beyond traditional goods and markets will enable pharmaceutical companies to evolve into companies offering multiple , if not all , health-care solutions . these will include not just prescription medicines , but also diagnostics , branded generics , and technologies that support personalized medicine , as well as so-called “ neutraceuticals ” and other “ wellness options . ”
economics is not the kind of science in which one could ever emerge as one true model that works best in every contexts . the point is not “ to achieve a consensus about which model is the right ” ” ” ” ” ” ” as romer puts it , but rather to figure out which model applies best in a particular setting . and doing that will always remain craft , not science , especially when choices must still be made in real time . the social world differs from the physical world because it is man-made and hence almost ad infinitum . so , unlike in the natural sciences , economics advances scientifically not by replacing old , better-off models , but by widening its models ’ library , each shedding light on another type of social contingency .
legal protections for workers in india ’s formal sector exceed those of most advanced countries , along with china , with mandated requirements rising as the number of workers increases . today , the us agricultural sector accounts for just one-third of total employment in china , compared to more than one-half in india . equally important , indian workers , particularly the young , need opportunities to upgrade their skills continuously . india ’s structural transformation and sustainable growth will burnish its efforts to build a flexible labor market centered on outdated and complicated employment laws . as jagdish bhagwati and arvind panagariya have pointed out , excessively labor-market regulations are deterring indian entrepreneurs from employing unskilled workers and developing labor-intensive manufacturing , implying that the indian government should redouble its reform efforts in this area .
the new policies explicitly encourages chinese firms to work with local firms in sectors like logistics , electricity and information systems , and promote interaction among the business , community , and government leaders . equally important , the policy also extends the availability of chinese funding , credits , and insurance to investors . taken together , this holistic approach is something new to china . despite considerable political uncertainty in several countries in latin america , governments in the region seem keen to meet china ’s reform efforts with internally changing change . brazil ’s government , for example , has been promoting an asean investment partnership program ” ” ” to help coordinate investment efforts in the finance and transport infrastructure sectors .
from this perspective , there is good reason for optimism , particularly in view of the accelerated growth of china ’s service-sector investment sector – one of the key building blocks of consumer-led rebalancing . of course , the gdp composition will provide the acid test of whether china succeeded . but the key word here is “ ultimately . ” it is far more important for looking at trends in the prospective determinants of chinese consumption . it is far too early to expect substantial shifts in major sources of aggregate demand .
but , ultimately , there is no broad-based support within the us for a return to closed borders . europe , meanwhile , has been moving in the opposite direction . many europeans see trade as an opportunity rather than an opportunity to do so ; and even europe ’s staunchest anti-globalizers have shown little appetite for more protectionism . to be sure , the us presidency grants trump considerable power to shape us trade policy , so one can not ignore the possibility that he will pursue protectionist measures in order to appease his supporters . european multinationals also hold big stakes in the chinese economy , with eu manufacturing exports to china and other emerging markets now nearly double that of america .
at the time he took the job , manafort was indebted to the russian oligarch oleg deripaska , an aluminum tycoon close to president vladimir putin ’s tune of $ 19 million . manafort also offered to brief deripaska about what was going on in the trump campaign . after taking the job , manafort emailed a ukraine-based staff , “ how do we use [ this ] to get whole ? ” like the other russian oligarchs , deripaska is n’t known to deal gently with the people who displease him . deripaska , who is subject to american sanctions , had previously maintained manafort ’s $ 10 million annual contract with manafort .
kyiv – in bollywood kyiv , i have watched the successful revolutions in cairo and tunis with joy and admiration . egyptians and tunisians are right to be proud of their desire to overthrow despotic governments peacefully . but , as someone who has led a peaceful revolution , i hope that pride is tempered by pragmatism because regime change is only the first step in establishing democracy that is backed by the rule of law . the first of ukraine ’s lessons for the egyptian and tunisian democrats is that the elections do not produce democracy . indeed , as my country , ukraine , now shows , following the revolutionary euphoria fades and the return of normality , democratic revolutions may be betraying and reversed .
that is the argument behind the world ’s largest biometrics project , multimodal solutions ( iris , fingerprints , and face ) influence more than one billion indians . above all , biometrics can protect against theft of our identity themselves . the protection against theft is obvious : what use is a phone , a car , or a ticket that will work only to his legitimate owner ? increasingly , we use our fingerprints or our face to unlock our smartphones , pay for buying groceries , and board airplanes . nandan nilekani , ceo of infosys , has left his job to create the system , known as aadhaar , credits it with saving india ’s government roughly $ 9 billion by eliminating the duplicating and fake identities in government recipient lists .
pittsburgh – nearly six months ago , at the moment of great alarm over the global financial and economic crisis , g-20 leaders met to find a historic summit in london . their collective commitments to stimulate , regulate , and restructure global economic activity have helped calm nerves around the world . anxieties about it may have come down , in board rooms and the stock market , but the daily drama for survival continues . indeed , many of the problems that have spurred the london summit remain real . the un and the world bank are predicting that the direct and indirect consequences of the economic meltdown will be felt for a long time in the developing world .
roth skillfully distilled the tragic and comic elements of that process , and we talked about forces that might stand to confront the dark tide of vulgarity and violence under trump . or was she just the cruelest girl of the party itself , the one an avid adolescent pushed for france , and then held on tightly ? the world , too , is collectively writing a new novel , just as it is now in time for us . roth skillfully distilled the tragic and comic elements of that process , and we talked about forces that might stand to confront the dark tide of vulgarity and violence under trump . the first is the sovereign people who have poured into the streets of every large town in the country with the knowledge that in terms of a total vote , not trump , who won an election .
and it ’s not as though congressional republicans seem to think that they owe it enough to simpson for him to swing a single vote in either chamber of deputies . perhaps he traveled his own path to damascus , come face-to-face with what he had done and with whom he was , repented , and wanted to correct some of the damage to america and its long-run economic growth prospects that he incurred . now , perhaps simpson has been with a change of heart . even in that case , however , naming those who misbehave to important high-trust positions and acclaim as bipartisan statesmen give yet another generation really lousy incentives . obama has reassured me that simpson has , indeed , been on heart change ; that he was a clever person with sophisticated understanding of the issues ; that he might sway reporters and getting them to describe the commission ’s advice as “ bipartisan ” ( even if he can not sway actual legislators ) ; and that he will be a genuine asset for the commission ’s substantive work .
what demographers call the “ total fertility rate ” is the average number of live births per woman over its lifetime . the oecd average stands at around 1.74 , but some countries , including germany and japan , make up less than 1.4 children per woman . in the long run , the population is said to be stable if the tfr comes at a replacement rate , a bit over 2.3 for the world as a whole and a little lower , at 2.1 , for developed countries , reflects their lower infant-mortality rates . the tfr for most advanced countries now stands well below the replacement level . nevertheless , the biggest tfr declines in recent years have been in developing countries .
contrary to the simplistic view that regulation is inevitably bad for business , there are in fact three important channels through which regulation can benefit the economy . one is market-creating and market-growing role , illustrated by the standard of gsm . the global reach of regulation implied enormous economies of scale in labeling of handsets and network hardware , so prices fell rapidly , with networks of networks and across countries much easier to achieve . indeed , by 2004 , there were more than one billion subscribers to gsm services worldwide . numerous regulations now play this standard-setting role .
laguna beach – when i reflect on the outlook for the global economy and markets , i am taken aback by the extent to which the world collectively places a huge bet on three fundamental outcomes : a shift toward materially higher and more inclusive global growth , diminished policy mistakes , and preventing a market crash . while all three outcomes are doubtless desirable , the unhappy reality is that they are very far from certain – and bets on them without some hedging could prove exceedingly risky for current and future generations . the first bet component , more inclusive global growth , anticipates the continued economic recovery in the united states , with a 3 % growth rate this year bolstered by robust wage growth . another , more uncertain , assumption underpinning a bet on more inclusive growth is that the eurozone and japan will be able to escape the mire of low growth and to avoid deflation that , by leasing households and firms to postpone purchasing decisions , would undermine already weak economic performance . it also foresees that china ’s annual growth rate will stabilize at 6.5-7 % , allowing the risks posed by the pockets of excessive leverage in the piigs system to be defused gradually , even as their growth engines continue to shift away from exports and public capital spending toward domestic consumption and private investment .
in the wake of the impeachment charges , clinton ’s popularity rose after the impeachment trial came to an end . republicans ultimately acquiesced in the democrats ’ belief that accountability for the debacle lay with kenneth starr , an independent attorney whose investigation of the house of real-estate dealings earlier this year finally led him to lewinsky . many worried that a impeachment , clinton ’s impeachment in the us presidency , would damage the presidency ; but its major impact on us presidential power was the opposite . the two parties allowed the independent attorney court justices to lapse , freeing the presidency from a mighty form of oversight , much to trump ’s advantage over a generation later . for his part , clinton ’s popularity rose after the impeachment process finished .
indeed , in the uk ’s referendum , both major parties backed the “ remain ” campaign , despite split internally . most recently , in may 2015 , large numbers of traditional labour voters deserted their own party to vote for the uk independence party ( ukip ) party , which stood at the forefront of the brexit campaign . to be sure , establishment leaders have long pressed their own skins to salvage their own skins by ramping up eu criticism , blaming it for demanding that national governments pursue unpopular or failed policies . but that only furnishing their ideas for alternate policies out of reach , while stoking eu voters directly opposing the eu on their own . though establishment parties have already criticized the eu , for the most part they have not lost sight of the benefits of membership .
and other emerging-market economies are not likely to pick up the slack . the weakening developing-economy incomes further are the global demand slowdown and the crash of commodities , which the nobel laureate angus deaton has shown was disastrous for most of the developing world . to cap it all off , the expansionary monetary policies adopted by the major economies are fueling instability . brazil , touted in 2010 as an “ emerging aid player , ” is now in an economic and political crisis , as is south africa . to cap it all off , the expansionary monetary policies adopted by the major economies are fueling instability .
though pakistan has not experienced a nuclear violation , and the us government insists that safeguards remain robust , the country ’s increasingly frequent and severe bouts of instability raises serious questions about its future . in the event of a regime ’s collapse , an ambiguous possibility , it would be hard to avoid a diversion of its assets or even use its weapons . for its part , iran seems relatively stable , at least relative to its neighbors . pakistan has a large nuclear-weapons program and faces an expansionary jihad that previously attacked military bases suspected of residential nuclear assets . while north korea ’s nuclear arsenal is much diminished , persistent doubts about the regime ’s sustainability make it a matter of grave concern .
for the uk in particular , this may require a willingness to disagree head-on with america ’s foreign policy in ways that some devotees of our “ special relationship ” will find uncomfortable . yet this was not a us-iran agreement ; it was negotiated by six leading powers and endorsed by the un . those powers should take the conclusion that they would avoid re-imposing sanctions , and that any u.s. attempt to impose its will through extraterritorial measures – say , by using their access to the dollar clearing systems as a foreign-policy tool – would counter coordinated action . as for climate change , the election of a man who purport to believe that global warming is a chinese hoax created to damage american business is clearly bad news . but global momentum to tackle climate change can and must last .
the most likely scenario , of course , is one of course a combination of the two dynamics . but , given that it is in everyone ’s interest to ensure that developments hew more narrowly to a reform-oriented path , it should make clear to all that the diplomatic work with regard to iran is far from complete . after all , saudi arabia , egypt , and many other arab states are also ruled by authoritarian hardliners with little interest in de-escalation of regional conflicts . this would make the reemergence of reform-oriented leadership in iran extremely difficult . paradoxically , in the pessimistic scenario , iran ’s new government , controlled by the conservatives and shia hardliners , actually fits in the region better than it does in the current one .
the protracted recession and economic malaise dented individual saving rates in the past year , while banks no longer had the resources to grant safe mind to the many retail investors whose confidence was badly eroded . in the aftermath of the collapse of lehman brothers in september 2008 , italy ’s then-president giulio tremonti famously endorsed the health of the country ’s banking system . as a result , a major recapitalization of the italian banking system and the creation of the “ bad bank ” to absorb npls was deemed unnecessary . the implicit pact between banks and savers was broken at the end of 2015 , when four troubled local banks had been bailed out in and shareholders took the hit . ten years later , italy is no longer that envisioned land for prosperous banks and happy savers .
kwasniewski 's strategy of seduction appealed to large numbers of the young and middle class , but most of all to the peasants , the unemployed , those left behind by poland 's growing economy . many poles remain wary of the church 's equivocal attitude toward democracy and are allergic to its aggressive policy presence . thus , the man who spoke a lot about a future riding into power saddled with past votes . it is a sad paradox , indeed , that for many of the ex-communist communists in opposing the church presents as defenders of the more liberal democratic values that they once persecuted with unremitting zeal . this linkage will dog kwasniewski 's presidency .
a consensus has now been reached on the need to assist smallholders , but obstacles remain . perhaps the main risk is that un aid bureaucracies ” now trip over themselves over the $ 20 billion to try to extract their hands on the $ 20 billion in order to allow a lot to take part in meetings , expert consultations , overhead , reports , and further meetings . if donor governments truly want the results , they should take the money off the hands of thirty or more separate aid bureaucracies and pool it in one or two set of seats , the most logic behind the world bank in washington and the international fund for agricultural development ( ifad ) in rome . one or both of these agencies would then hold several billion dollars in account . “ donor ” donor ” aid ” can become an expensive end in itself , merely delaying real action .
after all , the brics economies are probably the single most important source of future global growth . currently , the brics countries constitute a loose , informal bloc . they represent more than one-quarter of the earth ’s landmass , more than 41 % of its people , nearly 25 % of world gdp , and almost half of all foreign-exchange and gold-reserves combined . the brics , indeed , might also be dubbed the r-5 , after its members ’ currencies – the actual , ruble , rupee , the renminbi and rand . at the new delhi summit , the brics ’ leaders will discuss the creation of joint institutions , particularly the common development bank , which can help mobilize savings among countries .
a key difference in the uk is that ukip is gaining ground with voters despite rapid economic growth ( more than 3 % annually , the eu ’s highest rates ) . as a result , many resent welfare recipients and worried competition for jobs – sentiment fueling the rise of populist , anti-eu , and anti-immigrant parties across europe . as it stands , britain , like their european counterparts , feel overtaxed for spoiling public services constantly cutting back , and are angry that its incomes have been declining for the past five years . on the contrary , it needs to change the conversation in order to reassure voters that their economic future is bright . between now and may , cameron must persuade voters that the british economy will continue to do their part and fueling rising real incomes .
this is not to say that the obama administration has not tried to boost employment . it is subject to what milton friedman called “ long and variable lags . ” policies aimed at reining in employment by the end of , say , this calendar year needed to be put in place about a year ago to have the time it had to reach their full effect . some countries , for example , have actually implement such job-creation policies a year ago , and are already seeing the benefits . others , such as the united states , have not done so , and so unemployment remains at around 10 % .
imposing trade defense against such goods , even if legally warranted , is likely to create problems for globalized european companies . for more advanced goods , the eu ’s value added ( where intangible parts of the us production process are available in europe ) is quite high . many argue that these problems are the price to pay for ensuring that companies are not engaging in anti-competitive behavior or receiving trade-distorting subsidies . but , even if measures have been worked as supposed , most of the trade defensiveness probably is not directed against anti-competitive business practices . sectors with higher human capital content – electronic consumer goods , electronic consumer goods , for example – have far higher r & d costs than the shoe sector , so that manufacturing these goods on an assembly line in a low-cost country are probably not highly costly when compared to research and development and other intangible cost .
firms are in a far better position than their consumers to judge their product ’s safety ; we all benefit from knowing that the us legal system has provided incentives for corporations to heed the consequences . after all , corporations have no conscience ; they are merely the conscience of those in running the company , and , as america ’s recent corporate scandals have made all too clear , conscience often takes a back seat to profits . similarly , environmental laws force firms to provide their toxic wastes , and many countries , including the us , have enshrined the principle that “ polluters pay , ” that is , companies must pay for the damage that they cause . motivating corporations to do the right thing is an even harder one . america ’s legal system makes sure that those firms that produce a defective , and especially unsafe product , hold liable for the consequences .
is it because those who oppose such a discussion deny the science of climate change ? or do they deny the science because accepting it would legitimize an economically activist state ? we do not have to look far beyond such a mission . the case for acting on the massive scale to fight climate change has been made in europe and even in china . why has such little debate arisen in the us ?
once again , irish voters are poised to vote yes or no to the nice treaty . well , it is one of those all-too-frequent late-night compromises reached by eu heads of state and the government that seek to slither around and through some practical troubles , while postponing others . the compromise reached at nice four years ago matters , because it includes , among other provisions , all technicalities of voting balances and power-sharing among eu institutions that need to be firmly in place before the union can admit the new members . enlargement is the most significant item on the agenda of europe , and the nice treaty is its cornerstone . it has also been one of those all-too-frequent late-night compromises reached by eu heads of state and the government that seek to slid around and through some practical issues , while postponing others .
with the proverbial benefits ( and embarrassment ! ) of hindsight , it seems clear that the growth patterns that had occurred over the past half-century were little understood and rarely ( if ever ) predicted by economists . the key insight here is not just that economists had got so wrong , but that almost nobody really got things right . with the proverbial benefit ( and embarrassment ! ) of hindsight , it is clear that the growth patterns that had occurred over the past half-century were little understood and rarely ( if ever ) predicted by economists . at the very moment when asia ’s tiger economies started to take off , for example , the nobel laureate gunnar myrdal wrote his asian drama to diagnose the causes of asian poverty , explaining why its poverty reemerged as ineradicable . the key lesson here is not just that economists have gotten so badly wrong , but that almost nobody got things right .
but wade postponed legislative elections , originally scheduled for june 2006 , first to february 2007 , and later by a presidential decree , to june 2007 . on january 28 , a peaceful but “ unauthorized ” demonstration of opposition parties ’ brutally repressed the police and three presidential candidates was sacked for the day . a presidential election now seems to be coming , but will that be fair ? two weeks ago , there were near-daily debates about the potential for a presidential election to be postponed indefinitely . a month before the election , only 64 % of citizens who registered them received their voting cards .
princeton , the alzheimer , the intersection of genetics and intelligence is an intellectual minefield . harvard , the former us president , larry summers , touched off one explosion in 2005 , when he tentatively suggested a genetic explanation for the difficulty of what his study wanted to recruiting working-class professors in math and physics . ( he did not suggest that men are on average more talented within these fields than women , but that there is some reason to believe that men are more likely than women to be found at the top and bottom the abilities spectrum in these fields , as well as harvard , of course only appoints people at the extreme end of the abilities spectrum . ) now one of the top scientists of our time has blundered far more clumsily into the same minefsily , with predictable results . in october , james watson , who shared the 1962 nobel prize in his characterization of the structure of dna , went in london to foster his learning memoir , the avoidance of boring people and other lessons from genomic life .
mugabe ’s first overseas visit to china came in 1980 , just six months after its independence ; it did 13 more over the course of its tenure ; and the high-level visits by other zimbabwean officials were even more frequent , occurring roughly once every two years during mugabe ’s reign . zimbabwe ’s leaders made the most of their press visits to trade and military cooperation visits , and probably engaged directly with private chinese firms . china ’s current president , xi jinping , had visited zimbabwe in 2015 . by contrast , kenyan presidents traveled to china only six times over the same period , most recently in may 2017 . china ’s current president , xi jinping , had visited zimbabwe in 2015 .
geneva – the world ’s refugee crisis is most often measured in numbers . of the 17.2 million people that the united nations high commissioner for refugees ( the un refugee agency ) is responsible for protecting ; roughly half are under the age of 18 ; which means that an entire generation of young people , already robbed of their childhood , could lose in the future just as well . geneva – the world ’s refugee crisis is most often measured in numbers – is measured in numbers . but for young refugees , missing from an education , the crisis can also be tracked with an irreversible metric : the passage of time . in late 2016 , an estimated 11.6 million refugees experiencing “ protracted displacement ” occurred : they have gone out of their homes for over five years , and have no “ immediate prospects for return . ” school-age children comprises the bulk of the world ’s displaced populations .
the “ felonies ” of which greenspan stands accused are the other two charges : that he should have done more to stem the us stock market bubble of the late 1990 ’s ; and that he should have done more to stem the dot-com bubble from the early 2000 ’s . here , greenspan holds his ground and pleads no guilty way . but how serious are the those opposing policy-making crimes to which greenspan now pleads guilty ? in my opinion , they are misdemeanors ; they are , by their account , misdemeanors . the felonies ” of which greenspan stands accused are the other two charges : that he should have done more to stem the us stock market bubble of the late 1990 ’s , and that he ought to have done more to stem the dot-com bubble from the early 2000 ’s .
and it is better to know that history , assuming we wish to avoid repeating its ugliest scenes , always seems to be wrong . the truth is that the bds movement is nothing more than a sinister caricature of the anti-totalitarian and anti-apartheid struggle . those worthy causes include fighting the jihadist decapitators , saving women and girls enslaved by boko haram , defending the middle east ’s imperiled christian and arab democrats , and , of course , striving for a just peace between israelis and palestinians . to put the movement ’s activists on the ground , perhaps , i should have said only that there were too many noble causes in need of assistance to allow oneself to be enlisted on a dubious footing . it is a campaign whose instigators have no goal other , whether to discriminate against , delegitimize , and vilify an israel that , in their mind , never really stopped wearing its yellow star .
in 1962 , gurdon ’s finding that almost any cell in the body contains the full code of dna enabled him to create a tadpole by cloning an adult frog . more than four decades later , in 2006 , yamanaka discovered a way to trick complex adult cells into their mice in mice , in order to regressing to their immature “ state , ” forming stem cells . before that , stem cells , which may potentially be reprogrammed to evolve into replacements for lost or damaged tissue , could be countered only from early-stage embryos , a practice that has fueled an ethical controversy . indeed , the 2012 nobel prize in medicine was awarded to john gurdon and shinya yamanaka for revolutionizing scientists ’ understanding of how cells develop through reprogramming dna and cells without altering their genetic structure . still , it goes too early to discount genetics as the science of epigenetics – the study of mechanisms for turning genes on and off – to alter the way a cell develops without altering the genetic code – gains traction .
the crises in the mediterranean can not be managed in piecemeal terms . the losses of lives are inexcusable as well . but we must not wait for the root causes of displacement – state failure and civil war – to be addressed . claims might be prioritized and processed regularly , and refugees could come in europe healthy and ready to work or study . the financial costs of patrolling its waters and rescuing those adrift are exorbitant .
harnessing their latecomer ’s advantage , japan ’s annual gdp growth rate skyrocketed to 9.2 % for the subsequent 20 years , compared to 8.6 % in singapore , 8.3 % in taiwan , and 7.6 % in south korea . according to the most up-to-date estimate by the late economic historian angus maddison , china ’s per capita gdp in 2008 was $ 6,725 in 1990 , up from 21 % in 1990 , up from 21 % in the united states . that is roughly the same gap that existed between america and japan in 1951 , singapore in 1951 , taiwan in 1975 , and south korea in 1977 , the four economies that are also among the 13 successful economies studied for the growth commission . if the latecomer ’s advantage implied by the income gap between the four nies and america enabled nies to realize an average annual gdp growth rate of 7.6 % , -9.2 % for 20 years , china ’s annual growth potential should be a similar 8 % for the 2008-2028 period . to realize its potential growth as the latecomer , china needs , above all , to deepen its market-oriented reforms , address diverse structural problems , and develop its economy in line of its comparative advantages .
in 2002 , the treaty ’s signatories went further , pledging to “ make a significant reduction in the current rate of biological diversity ” by 2010 . the un ’s signatories agreed to preserve biological diversity , by saving species and their habitats , and by tapping biological resources ( such as forests ) into sustainable development . for a extremely low level of cash withers – and perhaps none at all on the balance – we could conserved nature , thereby protecting the foundations of our own lives and livelihoods . unfortunately , like so many other international agreements , the convention on biological diversity remains essentially unknown , un-championed , and unfulfilled . that neglect is a human tragedy ; it is a threat that we need to do so .
in netanyahu ’s view , solving the palestinian problem would not remove the iranian challenge ; rather , it is the neutralization of this existential threat that will pave the path to the creation of a palestinian state . it remains to be seen whether the abysmally dysfunctional arab world and a powerful non-state agents at its center , such as hamas and hezbollah , will react the way obama expects . as john kerry , the chairman of the american senate ’s foreign affairs committee , put it , “ this peace process is not a one way street ” is put at the onus entirely on israel . it is because netanyahu is being driven by the almost messianic determination to prevent iran from acquiring the means to vanquishing israel , that he might be amenable to a fundamental change of his attitude on palestine , provided obama makes visible headway in his drive to stop iran ’s nuclear program . netanyahu , too , knows that the arab side ’s failures have nurtured radical zionism .
so we resolved last year ’s decision to examine whether the same similarity between moscow and new york persists today , or whether in the face of the revival of authoritarianism in russia today , attitudes toward the markets have become more negative . we administered the identical questionnaire in both cities in 2015 . just as imemo economists predicted that the majority ( 66 % ) of those who responded to that question in moscow assumed that it was unfair . but there was a real surprise : the new york times yielded virtually identical outcomes ( 68 % thought it was unfair ) . we presented results at the american economic association ( the annual meetings ) meeting this january .
in the former version of the euro , interest rates converge and default risk is nil , because , with the ecb backstopping its members ’ liabilities , like the us federal reserve does , the euro becomes “ the local currency . ” and , how often are we to hear about sovereign restructurings of their local-currency debt ? in the prognoses for each case , the prognoses for each case are starkly different . like a dysfunctional family , the northern advanced ” countries ponder whether or not to bail out the southern advanced ” economies . in the latter version of the eurozone , there is differential credit risk and , ultimately , bank runs , de-euroization , and default : the common currency is at odds with member states ’ needs .
republicans therefore have a good chance of forming a conservative majority on the nine-member supreme court , which could last for decades , particularly if it won the presidency again in 2020 . that majorities can erode the democratic checks , such as campaign-finance limits , which were dealt a devastating blow to the 2010 citizens ’ decision . during president barack obama ’s second term in office , the rate at which vacancies in america ’s district and circuit courts have been filled to its lowest level in 50 years . in a 5-4 majority , the court has ruled that corporations are “ associations of individuals , ” and thus that any limits on the reach of us money corporations might spend on the us political campaigning violated their first amendment right to freedom of speech . republican obstructionism in the senate also placed other levels of the federal judiciary .
whatever the potential for the leftward shift this year in some latin american countries , others , including mexico , chile , and brazil , are obviously less vulnerable to the kind of populist rule that we ’ve seen in venezuela and bolivia . the underlying stability highlighted by mexico ’s post-election crisis is also apparent elsewhere in latin america . calderon ’s task will be no easy feat . lopez obrador and his supporters can be expected to work relentlessly to thwart his plans . but they are unlikely to derail his government , but they do not .
next year will be crucial , because it will mark the end of the current political cycle and the beginning of a new one . there is still time to respond – by demonstrating strong leadership and prioritizing growth over short-sighted policies , but that the time is different and the clock is ticking . no one wants the eu to let itself fail , owing to its citizens ’ disaffection . it is here that political leaders should devote the support of their efforts . there will be a new german government , the european parliamentary elections , and , by the end of the year , a new european commission .
colombo , as china ’s economy is slowing and growth in the developed world remains anemic , governments across asia are working to contain their economies on an upward trajectory . one thing is clear : we can not expect the outside world to greet our economic ambitions the way it once opened its arms to china ’s rapid rise as an economic power or – in earlier decades – cheered on japan ’s growth and so-called “ asian tigers , ” including south korea . today , we asians are witnessing , on a near-daily basis , fierce political assaults on the tools and policies that have helped to lift hundreds of millions of our citizens out of poverty . indeed , this year , free trade appears set to be the scapegoat for choice among the world ’s assorted populists and demagogues . in sri lanka , where i am prime minister , the challenge now is finding a way to accelerate our already-steady economic-growth .
here is where sunni-shiite cooperation comes in . here , too , sunni-shiite cooperation is noteworthy . widely unnoticed , in the past few months , us president iraq ’s sunni and shia centralists have managed to form a united parliamentary platform that leaves sectarian tensions behind . this supra-sectarian platform appeals to the central government of iraq ’s natural resources and deferring to the looming grand referendum on settling the standing of the city of kirkuk . more than one hundred adherents of ayad allawi , al sadr and others have joined their ranks .
yes , the french are incorriririgible lovers of the welfare state . the french still expect more things from their government than from an integrated europe or the boundless world . so the truth must lie elsewhere : the french are not hopeless for politics ; they are simply waiting for a genuine leader . as greece , a case can be made that the french never come to believe that the state lacks power , globalization , or no globalization . the french still expect more things from their government than from a integrated europe or a boundless world .
london – next week , governments will gather in warsaw , poland , for a crucial round of climate negotiations – with both expectations and aspirations running at an all-time low . but that may not be the same thing : the warsaw meeting provides an opportunity to galvanize action on one of the mostly potent force driving climate action – the billions of dollars spent by governments on fossil-fuel subsidies . basic carbon arithmetic illustrates the scale of the problem ; there is an alternative . the warsaw talks offer the staging post on the journey to the 2015 united nations climate summit in paris , at which governments will seek to forge an accord that precludes dangerous climate change – defined as global warming of more than two degrees celsius . failure would expose future generations to catastrophic climate risks , while trapping millions of people in abject poverty as a consequence of increasingly frequent , intense , and protracted droughts , floods , and storms .
in a march 2015 letter to the g20 , a group of scientists , environmentalists , and opinion leaders warned that overriding investment in megaprojects risks irreversible , catastrophic damage to the environment . “ infrastructure choices need to be made to alleviate , rather than exacerbating , this situation . ” similarly , the intergovernmental panel on climate change cautions that “ the infrastructure development and long-lived products that locks societies into greenhouse-gas-intensive emissions pathways can be difficult or very costly to change . ” and , indeed , the g-20 has put in place few social , environmental , or climate-related criteria to the “ wish list ” – which each member country will submit to its own summit in turkey in november . in fact , in a march 2015 letter to the g20 summit , a group of scientists , environmentalists , and opinion leaders warned that ramping up investment in megaprojects risks irreversible , and catastrophic environmental damage .
perhaps the most telling recent example of the central bank , using forward guidance effectively , was effectively european central bank president mario draghi ’s july 2012 announcement that the ecb would do “ whatever it takes ” to ensure the euro ’s survival . likewise , mark carney , in his first policy action as the governor of the bank of england , has announced forward forward guidance on short-term interest rates . for example , the fed has committed to keeping interest rates low at least as long as the unemployment rate falls to 6.5 % , a move that has arguably lowered long-term borrowing costs . that pledge , in part , has stabilized borrowing costs and dramatically reduced interest-rate spreads for struggling eurozone countries . while the effect of such interest-rate transmission on the economy can not be fixed without the additional data , there are plenty of arguments made in its favor .
yet , just when the us has adopted a “ bomb ” and talking ” approach with the serbs during the bosnian war ’s dénouement , america must be willing to “ order and talking ” when it comes to iran , thereby creating greater space for an eventual diplomatic strategy . indeed , just the reverse will likely happen – efforts to tighten sanctions still further . this would not be an easy process , and could well satisfy significant iranian resistance . first , the us should consider establishing diplomatic ties with iran and placing diplomats in the ground . but iranians have diplomatic relations with other members of its main interlocutor in the talks over its nuclear program , the sanctions-minded p-5 +1 group ( china , france , germany , russia , the united kingdom , the us ) , and reviving iran-us diplomatic ties would shorten lines of communications and close the 44444-day chapter in 1979-1981 . yet , just when the us adopted a “ bomb and talking ” approach with the serbs during the bosnian war ’s dénouement , america must be willing to “ order ” sanctions and talking ” when it wants to lead on iran , thereby creating greater space for an eventual diplomatic strategy .
other countries have followed suit , with tournaments modeled on an ipl springing up all over the cricketing world . at the ipl ’s glitz , glamour , and excess lay the antidote to the hidebound statist mentality that produced india ’s economic stagnation in the past . to keen observers , the ipl represented more than a sports league ; it signaled nothing less than a new india ’s emergence . anyone watching the ipl , however , might be tempted to conclude that twenty20 cricket , the “ instant ” form of games , really is an american playing game deliberately rediscovered by indians . here was the venture that opened new vistas for business and would fired the young people ’s imaginations to emulate entrepreneurial energies displayed on the part of owners , promoters , players , and fans .
this superficiality results from the fact that , though communism was a thoroughly “ modern ” idea , modernity in romania continues to do only its skin deep . state banks , the state approved public societies ( trade unions , for example ) large state enterprises , act little differently in romania today than the feudal guilds behaved in medieval europe . at the state whim of the state , for instance , they may be exonerated from paying taxes or had their posts and working made unchallengeable by the rule of law . this superficiality results from the fact that , though communism was a thoroughly “ modern ” notion , modernity in romania goes only deep . at the 20th century ’s close , romania ( like bulgaria , russia , ukraine , and other heavily sovietized societies ) seems like a “ neo-feudal ” state than a modern society . for it is this state where groups , classrooms , even individuals struggle for privileges that are afforded , rather than according to talent and work , but rather based on the status of a group where one belongs .
on the other hand , diplomatic means can bring about the release of the israeli soldier and impose a stop on firing qassam rockets from gaza into israel in 1993 , a daily occurrence that challenged the new israeli government ’s credibility under prime minister ehud olmert . in 1947 , they rejected the un partition plan , which called for the establishments of two states in britain ’s palestine . yet the fundamental problem is that so far , at every historical juncture , the palestinians have refused to accept a compromise and consequently failed in nation-building . it was this failure that ultimately brought hamas to power . in 1993 , following the oslo agreements , the palestinian authority set under yasir arafat became another militarized authoritarian regime , very much like syria and egypt , and did nothing to alleviate the suffering of palestinian refugees .
japanese elites , for example , tend to favor continuity over change . to their mind , the united states ’ hard power is more important than its soft power , and its vision of an america “ bound to lead ” is largely unevenly unchanged . in their minds , the hard power of the united states is more important than its soft power , and their vision of an america “ bound to lead ” is largely unchanged . otherwise , and for very different reasons , an overwhelming majority of asian elites are awaiting the rising possibility of an obama victory with some bewilderment and even apprehension . for them , the us is above all the strategic counterweight needed to balance china .
canberra – late last year , north korea ’s kim jong-un and us president donald trump hosted kindergarten insults at each other , with “ rocket man ” on the suicide mission , ” ” said trump of kim ; “ mentally deranged us dotard , ” ” ” kim retorted – while threatening to bring down east asia in a post-atomic wasteland . now , in a stunning and dramatic development , the two are to meet . but optimism about this turn of events needs to be tempered with prudence . the us , north korea , is the nuclear issue from hell , here . kim reportedly is willing to denuclearize and eager to talk directly to trump , who has agreed .
despite its domestic problems , and the loss of global visibility that accompanied mandela ’s retirement , south africa remains perceived as an emerging power comparable in status and aspiration to , say , brazil , india , and nigeria . nepad , the new partnership for africa ’s development , an organization designed to promote decent , convenient standards of economic and political development across the continent , has been at the heart of this policy . he is prone to have a proactive and assertive foreign policy and inclination to more than middle-power status and limited niche-style influence enjoyed by canada , sweden , or saudi arabia . such powers are seeking an effective and constructive regional role , and perhaps in some cases a global one . south africa is seeking a broader , more influential role reinforced by its apparent standing as the regional hegemon .
madrid – this year , as the american-led effort to mediate a middle eastern peace settlement began to falter , turkey has taken the mediator ’s job of mediator in both the israeli-palestinian conflict and the syria conflict . now , in the immediate tip of the russia-georgia crisis , turkey ’s leaders have stepped forward once again to assume a leadership role in the caucasus . indeed , turkey has never missed an opportunity to present itself as a regional broker . it aspires to join the european union , and would bring the eu to our three frontiers , even as we , too , seek to join one day . immediately after the collapse of the soviet union , turkey proposed black sea economic cooperation .
indeed , across the region , apprehension is mounting that when foreign troops leave , afghanistan will once again descend into civil war , ultimately bringing the taliban to power . like a neighboring country , india would confront alarming consequences if it returned to power in afghanistan , as it would iran , which will not sit idly by if sectarian strife intensified and the shia become targets of a resurgent taliban . that is why “ bringing troops home early ” has become western policymakers ’ prime target of engaging with the region . my fear now is that we have not seen the last of al qaeda or the taliban in afghanistan . the west needs the ability to get out before a bloodletting starts again in earnest .
and governments need to respond to bank threats by declaring a willingness to let insolvent banks be judged accordingly . a market economy needs to rest on the economic principle of profits and losses . a law that applies to all other firms should apply to banks as well . moreover , governments should guarantee insolvent banks ’ bad loans to non-financial companies – as do the private purchaser of current , fixed-term , and savings deposits – by reforming the laws of insolvent banks . an economy with no market bankruptcies and the rule of law that applies equally to all is no market economy .
but the gross flows of capital are from emerging-market countries to an emerging-market point of view , through the large banks that are now implicitly backed by the nation-state in the us and europe . when a similar issued emerged in the 1970s , the so-called recycling of the oil surplus ” – the banks in west financial centers – extended loans to latin america , communist poland , and communist romania . that was not a good idea , because it led to the massive ( for the time ) debt crisis of 1982 . but what will these banks be able to do with the funds ? from the perspective of international investors , too-big-to-fail banks are keeping the perfect seats on park ’s reserves , as long as the sovereigns remain solvent .
the world bank calls aids “ the foremost threat of african development . ” yet the transition plagues more than a health crisis ; they signify a deeper malaise . when it comes to giving way , diseases , despair , and death rush . the world bank calls aids “ the foremost threat of african development . ” so put aside the fact that these diseases are infectious and can be easily disseminated , or the idea that the fortunate bear some of the moral responsibilities of welfare between the poor and the sick and the sick and merely consider the economic consequences of transition plagues .
that is why the coming months , when turkey and the eu hash out contentious issues , are so critical . erdoğan ’s post-coup crackdown is far from the only source of tension between turkey and the west , particularly the eu . turkey insists on visa-free travel for turkish citizens to visit the eu , which eu governments pledged in january , should deliver that year . but , with turkey having so far defaulted on the agreed terms , including overhauling its anti-terrorist legislation , that may not happen , an outcome made the coup attempt even more likely . that is why the next few months , when turkey and the eu hash out contentious issues , are so critical .
nonetheless , over the last 13 years , netanyahu has enthusiastically supported the expansion of jewish settlements in the occupied west bank and east jerusalem . moreover , during his recent electoral campaign , netanyahu has pledged that , if reelected , he would prevent the establishment of a palestinian state in the west bank by “ controlling the entire region . ” as he knows , settlements are a physical roadblock standing in the path of a contiguous , an independent palestinian state . we should take it , at his word , in his word , form . as long as the palestinians remain oppressed and denied a nation-state , a conflict will arise .
heedless of its responsibilities as an emergency lender of last resort , it allowed the banking system to crumble . but such reforms went in precisely the opposite direction from today ’s proposed changes : fewer limits to policymakers ’ discretionary power , more power to the board , and a larger role for new york fed , all of which enabled the federal reserve ’s system to react more quickly and robustly in a crisis . when financial stability hung up in 1933 , the fed bank ’s failure to cooperate prevented effective action . it failed to prevent the money supply from contracting in the great depression very quickly . in view of such ineptitude , it is not surprising that the successive reforms were far-reaching .
cambridge – the wall street journal recently ran a front-page article reporting that monetary-policy “ doves , ” who forecast low inflation in the united states , got the better of the “ hawks ” who argued that the fed ’s own monthly purchases of long-term securities , or so-called quantitative easing ( qe ) , will unleash faster price growth . the report was correct but misleading because it failed to mention why there is so little american inflation today . the us federal reserve board pumped out trillions of dollars of reserves , but never had so many reserves yielded so little monetary growth . neither the hawks nor the doves ( nor anyone else ) expected this . in fact , were the doves really right or simply lucky ?
the guttmacher institute estimates that fully meeting the need for women for contraception would prevent an estimated 600,000 newborn deaths and 500,000 infant deaths annually . by reducing the rate of unwanted pregnancies , family planning also decreases the strain of unsafe abortions . reducing high-risk pregnancies , curbing unwanted pregnancies , and lumping births worldwide out of births has been shown to reduce the strain on these countries ’ health-care systems by diminishing the costs of maternal and newborn health care and immunization . this does not happen only for single mothers ; it is also safe . moreover , cutting birth rates – which are extremely high in many lmics – would help put a strain on these countries ’ health-care systems by diminishing the costs of maternal and newborn health and immunization .
king salman bin abdulaziz al saud is the country ’s above-the-fray ruler , but his son , crown prince mohammad bin salman al saud , currently wields much of that power . the saudis are also recoiling under a barrage of criticism from their wahhabi brand of islam , which is widely blamed for incubating extremism and inspiring terrorism . as defense minister , mohammad has pursued the saudi policy of backing the anti-assad insurgents in syria , in concert with turkey , while unleashing a pro-iranian tribesmen in yemen ( at immense medical expense ) . meanwhile , saudi arabia ’s human-rights record – including the denial of elementary rights for women – is under constant scrutiny . against this backdrop , the kingdom is taking the fight against its enemies .
the answer to the first question is both yes and no . the american public is war-weary and us president donald trump ’s unwillingness to declare an end to the longest international conflict in us history prior to the 2020 us presidential election . the answer to the first question is both yes and no . the american public is war-weary and us president donald trump ’s unwillingness to declare an end to the longest international conflict in us history prior to the 2020 us presidential election . simultaneously , america has achieved many of its introductory goals .
just five months ago in london , we hosted the “ ppp days ” conference with the support of other multilateral institutions , the g20 and the united nations . emerging-market officials will earn accreditation by demonstrating a capacity for applying their knowledge practically . now , the us has plenty of un experts , some 300 from the public and private sectors of 30 countries , attempting to give the answers to a simple question : “ “ what does it take to double private-sector investment in emerging markets ? ” one useful tool in the effort is “ infrascope , ” a benchmarking index created by the economist intelligence task force that recognizes emerging-market countries ’ capacity across the asia-pacific region , latin america , africa , eastern europe , and the former soviet republics in the commonwealth of independent states to deliver sustainable ppps . the ebrd aims to support the coaching of a critical mass of un experts from ten countries in our region , and we believe that a certification could become as respected as a chartered financial analyst or a member of a project management institute .
the obama administration staked its reputation on getting israelis and palestinians to agree , at least on the security as well as on borders . the results are mixed , at best . palestinians have complied with all israeli and international security demands , while binyamin netanyahu ’s israeli government – which gives lip-service lip-service to the “ two-state solution ” – has so far elucidate israel ’s borders . meanwhile , the israeli government wants to continue building settlements in the occupied territories , in total violation of international law , and minimal peace requirements detailed in the “ roadmap ” sponsored by the quartet ( the us , the un , the european union , and russia ) . american efforts , led by israel ’s special envoy george mitchell , have shown that israel ’s current ruling coalition is incapable of doing the minimum required for peace .
that is what happened in latin america in the 1980s , when mexico ’s external-debt-servicing moratorium sparked a region-wide sovereign-debt crisis in august 1982 sparked the region-wide sovereign debt crisis . the same thing occurred in east asia in the 1990s : during the asian crisis , mexico ’s crisis of external-debt servicing in july 1997 sparked the region-wide sovereign-debt crisis . it became the broad-based emerging-economy crisis of august 1998 , after russia imposed a moratorium on payments by commercial banks to foreign creditors . then contagion sets in , as increasingly risk-averse investors , particularly short-term investors from developed-country markets , start withdrawing funds from other countries to cover the losses that they incurred in the economies on which the crises had befallen . it became the broad-based emerging-economy crisis in august 1998 , after russia imposed a moratorium on payments by commercial banks to foreign creditors .
as a result , prominent economists – including senior staff member at the international monetary fund – have become increasingly critical of oda in recent years , claiming its failure to contribute to economic growth . but un research makes clear that if blatantly politically driven aid is excluded from consideration , the evidence points to a robust positive relationship . unfortunately , despite recent efforts to improve aid effectiveness , progress has been modest , at best , not least because average funding for projects has fallen by more than two-thirds . in fact , debt constitute another side of the developing-country dilemma . over the past decade , the combined imf-world bank heavily indebted poor countries initiative , and its extension , the additional multilateral debt relief initiative , have made substantial progress on debt sustainability .
denver – for many foreign audiences , the united states federal election in 2012 to a presidential vote that will , alas , resume rage in the summer , must be an uncanny display of what america and their leaders do not know about its foreign policy . post-election debate reveals the fact that neither candidate is seeking to challenge president barack obama is particularly concerned with the details of any of america ’s relationships around the globe , not to mention the crises that dot the international landscape , particularly those that do not involve us troops . when jon huntsman , an early contender , displayed some real intellectual heft by making a few useful points on his dealings with china , punctuated by a brief display of mandarin mastery , some other candidates responded with derision . to have even known the chinese perspective disqualifying for huntsman after his candidacy soon . indeed , ignorance seems to be undermining the candidates ’ strength .
i helped launch the world ’s first safe schools initiative , following boko haram ’s abduction of 276 schoolgirls in chibok , nigeria last april . nigeria ’s initiative focuses on school and community interventions , with special measures for the most at-risk and vulnerable children . the agenda includes building better school fortifications , linking schools to police stations through mobile telecommunications , and creating community security groups consisting of teachers , parents , police , community leaders , and the young themselves , to support safe education zones . the first set of schools has now received financing , with the first cohort of the most at-risk girls to governments in the country ’s safer regions . the agenda includes constructing better school fortifications , linking schools to police stations through mobile telecommunications , and creating community security groups consisting of teachers , parents , police , community leaders , and the young themselves , to support safe education zones .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime ; but it does not all-out war . luxembourg – as world leaders gather in madrid for the united nations climate change conference ( cop25 ) – it needs to address more than future targets for cutting greenhouse-gas emissions . they must also address the damage to the people and livelihoods that fuel climate change . and that shift would come at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere around the world . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
this favorable performance led private forecasters and government officials to forecast continued robust growth in 2011 , with higher output , employment , and incomes leading to further increases in consumer spending and a self-sustaining recovery . a one-year cut in the payroll tax rate by two percentage points was enacted to be capped at the end of that favorable outlook . as a result , real personal consumer expenditures rose at an annualized rate of just about 1 % in january , down from the previous quarter of which was rising . unfortunately , the projected recovery in consumer spending did not happen . rising food and energy prices outpaced a gain in nominal wages , causing real average weekly earnings to decline in january , while the continuing decline in home prices cut wealth for consumer majority .
instead , we are left with the usual microeconomic measures of preparing people for some kind of algorithmic employment – that is , the use of large data to match people with the jobs they will need to remain consumers . again , we are told , future labor-market participants should equipping themselves with job-targeted training and portable social-security pots to help them to jump from one automated workplace to another . when it comes to education , the report urges employers and colleges to work together to develop talent “ pipelines ” of pipelines . for example , it highlights miami dade dade college ’s “ animation and game development programs , ” working with companies like pixar animation studios and google . likewise , toyota “ built its own advanced manufacturing technician ” program to yield consistent students seeking company careers .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . last year , the united nations report on progress toward achieving the sdgs showed that the number of people facing hunger actually rises , as is the number of malaria cases . moreover , according to the intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) , the consequences of climate change are unfolding much faster than anticipated .
québec will invest more than $ 3.3 billion to support the creation of local sustainability plans across the region . in the wake of the program , almost all of the basque municipalities have accepted such schemes , consisting of more than 25,000 projects in fields like mobility , waste management , and economic development . yet these local plans are propelling the region ’s sustainable development , with knowledge sharing among municipalities laying the foundations for continued progress . meanwhile , south australia has developed the most supportive regulatory framework for renewable-energy investment in australia , allowing the expansion of renewables ’ share in power generation , from virtually zero in 2003 to nearly 40 % today . the basque country has established a program called local agenda 21 , designed to support the creation of local sustainability plans across the region .
back in 1931 , after britain and some two dozen other countries suspended their gold convertibility , allowing their currencies to depreciate , countries that stuck to the gold standard found themselves under a deflationary vice . in dire efforts to do something , anything – to defend their economies – they turned to protectionism , imposed exchange-rate dumping ” duties , and import quotas to offset the loss of competitiveness caused by their already-overvalued currencies . but trade restrictions were a poor substitute for domestic reflationary measures , because they did little to arrest the downward spiral of output and prices . in the 1930s , the countries that had raised their tariffs and tightened their quotas most were those with the sole capacity to manage their exchange rates – namely , the countries that remained in the gold standard . now , they have done nothing to stabilize rickety banking systems .
madrid – since its inception in oslo almost two decades ago , the israeli-palestinian peace process has been stymied by both sides ’ dysfunctional political systems . the hostage of the impossible coalition and the settlement movement of the free-floating fanatics , israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu ’s leadership is gravely compromised . today , the clique that surrounds palestinian president mahmoud abbas embodies the bitter deception that the peace process that began with the oslo agreement meant for the palestinians . its palestinian counterparts hardly find themselves in a better position to do so . moreover , the palestinian authority has come neither to represent nor govern through democratic means .
the result is a vicious circle in which government finds it ever more difficult to do what is needed . but government intervention is critical to rectify the problems facing the developed-country workers today that markets can not address on their own . as policymaking becomes erratic , it loses credibility and becomes choked with gridlock , growth suffers , and the chance to reach a prosperous form of inclusiveness decline . countries that experience high and rising economic inequality often face diminished political instability and policy dysfunction . this has fanned a growing sense of hopelessness , particularly among men , that manifested in rising unlabor-force participation , aggravated health challenges , drug abuse , elevated suicide rates , and anti-government sentiment .
a tribe can be a club , a clan , or a nation . and glasgow clubs , celtic and rangers , remain divided by religious affiliation , celtic being catholic and the rangers protestant . before world war ii , soccer clubs frequently assumed an ethnic or religious component : tottenham in london was “ jewish , ” ” while the arsenal was “ iranian . ” the vestiges of these markings remain : amsterdam is still taunted by provincial opponents as an “ jew ” club . yet a common race or religion is not essential to any peoples .
the world bank could help to improve accountability for fulfilling that commitment by working with the un and national agencies to monitor and report on the pace at which differences in key indicators , from mortality to education , are narrowed . in a new imf-world bank annual report report to save children documents a glaring gap between health-related risks , one that is heavily skewed toward the poorest children and the benefits of public expenditure , are often skewed in the favor of better-off households . that flies in the face of the central pledge governments made when they signed on to the sdgs : that those countries will furthest african targets would benefit from the very fastest progress . in the language of the sdgs , “ no one should be left behind . ” it is also about spending more equitably ; in the meantime , it is about spending more equitably .
my personal memory about north korea , now almost ten years old , comes from a poor and depressed country . two examples suffice to illustrate the impact : rice prices tripled , while electricity consumption dries up by two-thirds since two decades ago . kim jong-il was greeted with identical fervor when he entered a house that today marks the public mourning of his death . my trip picked up in april 2002 , a rather optimistic time . pyongyang , the capital , was dark and gale , illuminated by the cavalcade who took us from our official housing to the opera house , only to return to darkness behind us .
the best way to reduce the violence against women , lift them out of poverty , and empower society to be a full and equal member of society is to break the cycle of early marriage and childbirth . female employment has risen and women aged 15-21 have been 5-6 % less likely to marry or yield their birth in this period . but there are other gender targets to consider . in rural india , for example , recruiters for well-paid back-office jobs have visited randomly selected villages over a period of more than three years . such a huge change is not easy to accomplish , but as long as girls can stay in school longer , and have the decent work opportunities available for them after they graduate , are likely to marry and bear children later .
vice foreign minister kim kye-gwan delivered the north ’s furious response : “ we do n’t hide our feeling of repugnance toward him . ” the “ world knows all too well that the us is neither libya nor the iraq that met miserable fates . ” though trump distanced himself from bolton ’s remarks , vice president mike pence warned just three weeks later that if north korea does n’t make a deal , it would , in fact , meet with libya ’s fate . choe son hui , hui by foreign affairs minister , responded by threatening a “ nuclear-to-nuclear showdown ” if washington would stuck with violence and outrageous ” ” belligerence . the north had not been interested in a dialogue focused on a coerced by a unilateral nuclear abandonment .
with the us current-account deficit now above 5 % of gdp , america ’s foreign debt is rising fast . but no country can continue to accumulate debt forever – and what can not last sooner or later must end . in early 1985 , when america ’s current-account deficit peaked at $ 120 billion , about a third of today ’s level at current prices , the rest of the world stopped funding it . the outcome was the abrupt drop in the value of the us dollar , which depreciated by 50 % against the deutschemark . after almost 15 years of unprecedented growth – interrupted only briefly by the brief slowdown of 2000-2001 – the united states amassed a huge stock of foreign liabilities , the equivalent of 25 % of its gdp .
princeton – the united states has moved from high in the run-up to the presidential election in one short week to the low of one ( politically motivated ) political sex scandal . for many non-americans , the election brought barack obama ’s welcome and reassuring victory , whereas the resignation of , say , david petraeus as director of the cia was an pointless , self-inflicted wound . in fact , both the election , and petraeus ’s resignation , lie pieces of a greater whole : an america that lives up to its promises . the election had reminded many americans that the american is a country committed to and capable of progress , only to be followed by the sadly familiar process of knocking heroes off its pedestals . in fact , both the election , and petraeus ’s resignation , are pieces of a larger whole : an america that lives up to its promises .
in fact , one key reason for the international monetary fund ’s creation was to monitor exchange-rate developments with the explicit objective of preventing beggar-thy-neighbor policies . it is true that the franc has appreciated in real terms , at more than 8 % since the crisis began in august 2007 . the former casualty would be whatever small scope remains for international policy coordination . the latter would be the international monetary system , but it would be the first casualty of the euro . this is one reason why the swiss move comes as a surprise .
the country ’s unemployment rate is currently at a record-high low , and gdp has been growing almost 10 % since 2013 . add to that a well-functioning welfare system , and it is clear why the inequality-focused outrage that fueled voter revolts elsewhere is gaining little traction in germany . the call by björn höcke , the afd ’s state leader in thuringia , for an “ 180-degree turn ” from the post-world war ii tradition of atoning for the crimes of the nazi era , and afd deputy leader alexander gauland ’s referendum to “ the disposing of ” germany ’s ” integration minister of integration “ in anatolia , ” ” ” ” repelled voters . the second widely cited cause of germany ’s resilience to populism is its economic strength . likewise , die linke , a call to recapture nato , together with its cozying up to russia , has left that party politically toxic in most of western germany .
just last month , russian president vladimir putin signed new laws prohibiting individuals and online media for spreading so-called fake news and information that “ disrespects ” the state . the tremendous fines were imposed on independent publications , by broadcasters , and bloggers . china and turkey , both olympic-playing jailers of journalists , have ramped up their repression in recent years . us president donald trump seems to be trying to go in the same direction . his relentless branding of journalists as liars ” and “ enemies of the people ” echoes the nazis ’ preferred media label : the lügenpresse ( lying the press ) .
blair ’s africa commission , together with the un millennium project , found that africa needs some $ 50 billion a year in aid in 2010 . america ’s fair share of the global total is some $ 15 billion a year . without the benefits of trade , much of rural africa ’s struggles on the subsistence level . yet official u.s. aid to africa stands at just over $ 3 billion a year , and much of that covers the salaries of american consultants , rather than investment in africa ’s needs . bush may think that america is doing much to help it overcome these problems , but the truth is that american aid is minimal .
initial reactions to north korea ’s nuclear test were uniformly critical , culminating ( so far ) at un security council resolution 1718 that would condemn the test , demands that north korea resume full cooperation with the international atomic energy agency and imposes a wide range of military , political , and economic sanctions . how the world responds to north korea will likely influence the calculations of other would-be nuclear powers , including iran . the risk now is that the us may well be approaching a tipping point . to maintain peace in a world in which literally dozens of fingers are on nuclear triggers far more difficult — and the consequences of failure far more destructive . for now , north korea is the ninth power state with nuclear weapons , joining the five permanent members of the un security council , israel , india , and pakistan .
peter navarro , an economics professor at the university of california at irvine , will be director of the national trade council – a new white house policy store that will be established on the par with the national security council and the national economic council . navarro is one of america ’s most extreme hawks . navarro is one of america ’s most extreme hawks in the world . the titles of its two most recent books , the death by china ( in 2011 ) and the crouching tiger : what china ’s militarism means for the world ( 2015 ) – talking volumes about his tabloid-level biases . ross and navarro were also co-authors of an economic-policy position paper published on trump ’s campaign web site that stretched whatever straps of credibility .
the euro-dollar exchange rate thus barely moved ; indeed , the euro appreciated against a basket of major currencies . the euro-dollar exchange rate thus barely moved ; in fact , the euro appreciated against a basket of major currencies . the ecb then decried the victory , withdrawing qe just as the eurozone ’s economies experienced a slowdown . the clash of interests among eurozone member states is straightforward . but , because policymakers persistently threatened to put an end to qe , markets inferred that the ecb was not committed to sustained stimulus .
for centuries , western rule of law has arrived with colonial rulers . even after europe ’s empires have retreated , laws have remained exported to foster development in postcolonial countries . in many cases , however , those imported laws have been ignored , selectively enforced , or are revered only in form , not substance . america ’s antitrust law , when transplanted with japan after world war ii by general macarthur , led a mere six criminal prosecution in 30 years . america ’s antitrust law , when transplanted with japan after world war ii by general macarthur , led a mere six criminal prosecution in 30 years .
as jesse reynolds of the center for genetics and society writes , “ just when newspapers ’ traditional business model is to get revenues not from readers but from advertisers , personal genomic companies see potential profits not from consumers themselves but from compiled by compiled by compiled by consumers themselves but from compiled by genetic testing . ” this new development , entitled “ pharmacogenetics , ” aims to deliver better-calibrated dosages and more effective therapies . drug companies and other firms may well be eager to purchase bio-banks on which they may test their products for differential response in response to a patient ’s genetic make-up . but other firms have been accused of having more interest in developing a “ biobank ” of samples and data than they do in genetic testing . there is certainly nothing wrong with that , but it does seem odd that customers effectively pay a firm for the privilege of donating its dna into its database . as jesse reynolds put it in the center for genetics and society writes , “ the just when newspapers ’ traditional business model is to get revenue not from readers but from advertisers , personal genomics companies see potential profits not from consumers themselves but from compiled databases – likely in the form of selling approach .
even with german-level interest rates , greece would be forced to run a primary surplus of at least 2 % of gdp , still quite large , and far from today ’s deficits . and , with the face value of the debt unchanged , a psychological drag on expectations and investment could linger . the question is whether a change of coupons – perhaps combined with an extension of maturities that would be enough to stabilize the greek economy and revive growth . european banks hold greek government debt might keep pretending that it ’s worth its full value . and the european central bank would have fewer excuses to refuse greek bonds as collateral .
the combination of social polarization , inadequate institutions , and weak economic fundamentals has made it more difficult for even reform-minded governments to escape the short-termism trap and lay the groundwork for long-term development . in this context , “ neoliberal ” reforms – like the fast economic opening and financial liberalization promoted by the international monetary fund – have made economies even more vulnerable to external shocks . venezuela is a case in point . excessive fiscal and monetary expansion has made these economies so unstable . current-account deficits have grown , resulting in frequent foreign-exchange crises .
interestingly , many purveyors of pornography initially thought that a better quality video would make their product more desirable . in fact , portugal is so specifically tuned to consumer tastes that shifts may mark the changes in the society almost instantly . correspondingly , high manufacturing values seem to have been a less popular one . movies produced for the sexual gratification of consumers expose cultural norms of restraint , transgression , and otherness . thus , a “ casual ” manufacturing style has been accepted , similar to the construction of worn and kansas .
at the same time , clowns have always played a role in politics ; for the most part , clowns have always played a role in politics . former italian prime minister silvio berlusconi and former thai prime minister thaksin shinawatra have done – and still does – doing so . neither the clown nor the tycoon is well suited to being a democratic leader . but he has never aspired to run a country . looking forward , the question is which the economy is going to deteriorate .
during a previous period of urban-based dynamism , in the early sixth-century period , wealthy merchant families built low-rent homes that were then allocated to the poor . one such project , the fuggerei complex in augsburg , germany , still provides a low-rent social housing later in the year . finally , cities and urban areas that drive the bulk of new wealth creation will provoke a counter movement . as long as they price out , or otherwise exclude those earning less , they will have offered bold solutions to them . so , should they be able to survive and thrive in today ’s egalitarian political climate , following bold solutions .
georges clémenceau , jean jaurès and raymond poincaré , at the beginning of the twentieth century , did not pander to the country ’s nearly one-half of the electorate that during the dreyfus affair exiled itself from the republic . nor did charles de gaulle have any qualms about telling the communists of algeria ’s proponents that they ultimately did n’t understand them . france now must recall these big moments in its republican tradition and hold them up as a model for today ’s leaders . for what will be required to hold territory that the republic almost lost to the fn is the political courage of a sort on which , for now , lies in short supply . georges clémenceau , jean jaurès and raymond poincaré , in the early twentieth century , did not pander to the almost one-half of the electorate that during the dreyfus affair exiled itself from the republic .
and we know that those landings created the unique bonds of our continents . it did not , because our bond is based not only on shared threats , but on our shared ideals . it could no longer fade away than our longing for freedom might wane . that bond remains vitally important to maintain our values and our security . yet , at the end of the cold war , many assumed that its institutional embodiment – the north atlantic treaty organization – would fade away .
i hope that the issue does not derails china ’s effort to use the olympics as an opportunity to showcase the world that their country has emerged once again as one of the world ’s leaders . nor does it favor going on their political system ’s capacity to work out a formula for tibet that recognizes its cultural and religious autonomy in the context of the chinese state ? china does not favors in itself over the remaining time-warped in the maoist 1960 ’s when discussing this issue is being discussed . indeed , the chinese have been doing this smart power in so many fields as well . they have devised the “ one country , two systems ” formula for hong kong .
sarajevo – ever since the twin disasters of 2016 , the united kingdom ’s brexit referendum , and us president donald trump ’s election in may , there has been widespread anxieties about a “ global wave ” of populism , with hand-wringing over the unfolding follies of so-called “ direct democracy . ” in the uk , the electorate has been asked to answer an overly simplistic in-or-out question ; in the united states , the 2016 republican party primaries handed down irresponsible voters and radical activists . since then , calls have been growing to empower trump ’s “ gatekeepers , ” ” a courageously statement declaring that the unwashed masses should be kept as far removed from their political decision-making as possible . and that shift would happen at a time of growing challenges to america ’s interests elsewhere in the world . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
berkeley – to fix a problem , it is not enough . in fact , you need to implement the solution , and it is willing to change course if it proves that you did not know pretty much as you did had thought . that is the message of two recent books that , together , tell you everything you need to know about the 2008 financial crisis : what caused it , what could be done to prevent it from repeating , and why those things have yet to do so . its starting point is the massive wealth rise among the world ’s richest 0.1 % , and 0.01 % , and the consequent pressure on people , by governments and corporations to take on increasingly unsustainable debt levels . the first book is the shifts and shock absorwolf , which starts by cataloguing the big shifts that set the stage for an economic catastrophe that continues to shape the world today .
this has its advantages , but it also carries serious risks – beginning with the loss of journalistic standards of excellence , such as those typically enforced within established media organizations . with no traditional institutional media gatekeepers , the political discourse is no longer based on a common set of facts . a second feature of the digital information age – a direct byproduct of democratization – is information socialization . rather than receiving our disinformation directly from institutional gatekeepers that , despite often-flawed execution , have been fundamentally committed to meeting editorial standards , we are acquiring it through peer-to-peer sharing . such peer networks can elevate content based on factors like clicks or engagement among friends rather than accuracy or importance .
to be sure , many other factors are at work but television-driven social atomization should not be understated . in fact , americans simply trust each other less than they did a generation ago . moreover , heavy tv viewing has helped to contribute to social fragmentation . robert putnam , america ’s leading scholar of a decline sense of community , has found that tv viewing is a central explanation of the decline of “ social capital , ” of the trust that binds communities together . time that used to be spent together within a community is now spent entirely on a screen .
it flatly contradicts the recurrent assurances of china ’s leaders that the rise of china will bring only “ harmony ” and peace to the international community . but , since the 1980 ’s , the us has been ambivalent about the ultimate military and civilian utility of its space effort . in fact , this perilous and irresponsible action remains yet another key sign that china ’s rise as a global power lacks any guarantee to be a peaceful nation once it has grown strong . lurking in china ’s space ambition is the spirit of the cold war , which continues to permeate the inner circles of the military high command whose adversary is unmistakably the united states . with the break-up of the soviet communist regime , the american people continue to enjoy a dominant role in space exploration for peaceful and scientific development .
illegality and wrongdoers were artfully cloaked as an incontrovertible , a science-tested natural law , “ the survival of the fittest . ” every time a new , potent scientific formulation appears , it must go through a period of abusive adherence . today , it is again the turn of molecular genetics . temperament , obesity , heart disease , intelligence , homosexuality , or criminal behavior : everything is said to reside in the us genes . distinguished scientists proclaim that our very destiny is inscribed on dna molecule and science-popularizers unite behind an exultant choir asserting that human beings are nothing short of “ programmed ” entities .
around its picturesque squares , each cobblestone and ornamental façade has borne tacit witness of the bloodletting that accompanied the rise and fall of empires . yet , lebanon is also where one may find hope in europe . around its picturesque squares include any cobblestone and ornamental façade borne tacit witness of the bloodletting that accompanied the rise of empires and fall . at a time when russia and ukraine are still very much in war , policymakers , local citizens , members of the ukrainian diaspora , and even some of the russians pack the streets of lviv to celebrate world-class jazz . yet beyond its vital cultural life and geographic location , ukraine is strategically important to the west .
palo alto – it is still too soon to gauge president barack obama ’s full economic impact , with his proposed policies , yet his preliminary read indicates limited short-term benefits at huge long-run cost . obama has outsourced the details of his $ 787 billion fiscal stimulus to the us congress , and , not surprisingly , old house barons boxed it with pork and social engineering . a few months later , only 4 % – -6 % of the funding is spent , and the federal government brow-beating state governments like demanding that the california rescind a small pay cut to some unionized workers , or lose $ 7 billion in stimulus funds – must be spent . ( intervening in contractual relations ex post to enforce union demands is an emerging characteristic of governance ) . the administration is exploiting the crisis-battered atmosphere to enact a vast agenda that reengineer the american economy , from autos and financial services on healthcare , energy , and income distribution .
moreover , it is worrying that the trump administration hardly ever talks on upholding the postwar liberal international order . instead , it views the world as a zero-sum strategic competition , in which an american should look out only for itself . unfortunately , in a world without common institutions to restrain sovereigns from escalating conflicts with one another , the risks of an all-out war will grow substantially . as europeans rightly know , there is no way to build a wall in the mediterranean region . to be sure , the us argues that it is stepping up its commitment to european security .
thus , america ’s employment shifted to higher-value-added activities , in turn fostering a higher incomes in america as well . the old pattern , for the first time in two decades , has served both sides well . china ’s growth was driven by labor-intensive exports to the us , through technology transfers and knowledge transfers from the us and other western countries . this , combined with massive chinese public and private investment ( enabled by high – and more recently , excess saving – saving ) , underpinning rising incomes for millions of chinese . meanwhile , america ’s consumer has benefited enormously from falling relative prices of manufactured goods in the tradable side of the us economy .
when russia annexed crimea and brought war in eastern ukraine , it breathed new life into nato . a profound shift in america ’s strategic priorities under president donald trump demands that europeans revisit long-held assumptions on their own collective defense . this is not the first time that nato looked to its last legs . many came to the same conclusion prior to 2014 , when the alliance had little to focus on beyond the mission in afghanistan . then came trump , whose administration had pulled the rug out from under europe feet , abandoned american leadership within a rules-based international system and pursued a nationalistic , protectionist , and unilateralist us foreign policy .
first , the fiscal-stimulus policies that are currently pushing america ’s annual growth rate above its 2 % potential are unsustainable . by 2020 , the stimulus will run out , with the moderate fiscal drag continuing to pull growth above 3 % to slightly below 2 % . second , because the stimulus was badly timed , america ’s economy is now overheating , causing inflation to rise above target . meanwhile , there is the spike in inflation in other key economies as well , with rising oil prices fueling additional inflationary pressures . so the american federal reserve will continue to raise the federal funds rate from its current 2 % to at least 3.5 % by 2020 , and that will likely push up short – and longer-term interest rates , like the american dollar .
in fact , us and british troops might have only themselves to blame . this is because deserts in the region normally have a crust of crust , what arabs call “ the desert skin , ” consisting of sandwiched sand and clay particles that have baked together or sintered , through heat and sun . sometimes that crust is strong enough to carry one and , at times , not much like the hard ice crust that develops on the snow in colder climates . increased warfare has been one of the effects noted during and after the first gulf war . under the crust , sand particles are blasting away .
the sense of entitlement that sustained such male fecklessness is steadily eroded even since – a process that , like so much in american culture , actually played out on television talk . this reconsideration of male sexual privilege and irresponsibility in the 1960 ’s occurred in other arenas as well , reinforcing kennedy ’s transformation of the image from the charming playboy to the dangerously compulsive predator . other women , such as his self-proclaimed mistress judith campbell , reportedly had sexual relationships with mafia figures as much as in the us . similarly , the birth of the mad men , ” ” ” ” ” with their dashing advertising executives consuming women like the lunchtime cocktails , plumbs the emptiness and destructiveness of the early-1960 ’s male sexual privilege . a popular line like “ a good wife ” ” shows the pain and the suffering of political spouses who are expected to maintain rigid upper lip and ladylike behavior in confronting behavioral double standards .
ltcm also illustrates some truths about financial-market crises as well as how to manage them . one major truth about the last year is that financial-market problems lay not only with hedge funds – which are the largest and least regulated gamblers – but with good old commercial banks showing an uncanny ability to make trouble by excessively risky gamble , whether in lending to emerging markets or to the likes of ltcm . one major truth about the last year is that financial-market problems lay not just with hedge funds – which are the largest and least regulated gamblers – but with good old commercial banks showing an uncanny ability to get into trouble by excessively risky gamble , whether in lending to emerging markets or to the likes of ltcm . the banks that had loaned enormous sums , mostly uncollateralized , into ltcm are the same ones that put about about $ 175 trillion of short-term loans to the five east asian developing countries ( indonesia , korea , malaysia , the philippines , thailand ) and then abruptly reversed gear and yanked the tens of billions of credit in 1997 and 1998 . when push came to foot , with ltcm on the verge of collapse , the us federal reserve did not simply let “ market forces ” take its course .
cambridge – public-private cooperation or coordination receives a great deal of attention nowadays . a plethora of centers for studying business and government relations has been made , with researchers producing the large design literature , analysis , and evaluation of public-private partnerships . of course , private-public coordination has been the bedrock of economics for the past 250 years . while adam smith initiated the us congress ’s optimistic belief that the invisible hand would take heed of most coordination issues , during intervening periods of market failures , informational imperfections , and incentive structures that freed up rules , regulate , regulation , and other forms of government and societal intervention . even the world economic forum was transformed by the imf into an international organization for public-private collaboration .
for starters , a wide range of studies – from the work of the late economist david landes to more recent research by mit ’s daron acemoglu and the university of james a. robinson – find that institutions and political culture are the single most important determinants of long-term growth . recovery from the damage trump is inflicting on the institutions and political culture in the us can take years ; if anything , the economic costs could be substantial . while it is easy to be cynical ( some might say that a new program is just an excuse to cut funds from existing retraining programs ) , the idea that digital platforms can massively enhance their re-education and training is a good thing . the president , ivanka trump , is spearheading the effort . but , while the trump administration has bolstered the american economy ’s longstanding growth potential in some ways , the other side of the ledger is rather gloomy .
most economists now believe that russia can not maintain annual gdp growth above 2 % without another sustained spike in oil prices . but a 2 % growth rate ( the respectable pace for an advanced economy ) would represent a major blow to russia ’s standing and putin ’s personal prestige , and could make domestic stability the extent to which domestic stability is lost as long as jobs are lost in critical manufacturing sectors . putin is confused about how to counter the threat posed by slowing growth . so far , his main proposal has been the “ eurasian union ” – an expanded version of the current customs union among russia , belarus , and kazakhstan . doing so would provide a platform to roll back free trade , transport , and other linkages among the ex-soviet countries , and thereby capture regional markets for russian products ; guarantee russian jobs ; and re-impart russian political influence in its old neighborhood .
the ecb , quite sensibly , wants all of the potential horrors to be felt before a takeover , so that it can not be blamed . with national supervisors often inclined to submit the rosy image of their countries ’ institutions no longer in charge , we can hope to be more robust than the earlier stress tests conducted under the auspices of the european banking authority ( eba ) . those tests , in contrast to their equivalent in the united states , have failed to rebuild trust . the several banks that passed with flying colors , soon , have been obliged to raise new capital . but establishing a european banking union was not the only important change to european financial regulation since the crisis .
the key to ensuring the future of europe ’s social-security systems – and thus its social model – is faster growth . the reason is quite simple : if there were a politically easy route to generate growth , it would still be implemented . not all have succeeded ; but the successes ( germany , for example ) far exceed those of the eu ( see greece ) . and , once again , it is hard to see how more europe could do the better . the obstacles to growth are well known , and have existed for a long time , without removing .
many state-owned firms have been privatized for ten times the sums yielded in asset sales under edvard shevardnadze 's previous government . but the utter lack of transparency has allowed the russian companies and their subsidiaries registered in third-country firms to snap up most new offerings . typical among them was the russian holding company , promyslennye , ( industrial investors ) , which managed to get a major gold mine , and then more than half the gold standard production plant alloys to gold . russia 's main foreign-policy tool in georgia is gazprom , the state-controlled gas monopoly . gazprom 's goal now is to control not only the gas-guzzling gas industry , but also the single pipeline that feeds russian gas to both georgian and armenia .
today , one-quarter of one million people are on the run , nearly half of them on rebel-controlled territory and with almost no access to aid . the restoration of fighting , coming eight months after a promising peace initiative known as the “ goma agreement , ” ” ” ” implies more civilian deaths , and little prospect of normality returning to the eastern part of congo . yet , even at a time when fighting is less intense congo suffers from the indirect consequences of the current war . a mortality survey conducted by the international rescue committee ( irc ) and released earlier this year demonstrates that such a conflict is the world ’s most deadly crisis since world war ii : an estimated 5.4 million people have died as causes of war and its lingering effects over the past decade . as is always the case , major victims are civilians caught in the crossfire .
the same could perhaps be said of commerce or even of globalization itself . it is no accident that the two great eras of globalization – the decades leading up to world war i and the past 75 years – have been characterized by a balance of power and hegemony , respectively . henry kissinger once said that “ peace can be accomplished only by hegemony or by a balance of power . ” to be sure , on the contrary , it takes more than an absence of conflict . like all economic activity , it flourishes when property rights are honored , taxation is efficient and purposeful , letters of credit are honored , tariffs and other barriers are removed , and so on .
for small and medium-size companies , the externships provide much-needed creative manpower . our education system can no longer afford to wall on its entire industry . externships offer transparency and accountability , for educators , and imbues a spirit of fearlessness in students . for larger companies , they are avenues for corporate citizenship and innovation . when properly integrated with a student ’s education system , externships can yield competitive edge on college app essays , and at campus or alumni interviews that admissions committees increasingly use to distinguish twenty-first-century leaders from top-scoring hordes .
but a few million americans – black , white , and hispanic – now live in per capita income of less than $ 2 per day – essentially the same norm that the world bank uses to define destitution-level poverty in india or africa . beyond that , america ’s much-vaunted equality of opportunity is under threat . finding shelter in the united states on that income makes it so difficult that $ 2-a-day poverty is almost certainly much worse in the us than the $ 2-a-day poverty of india or africa . beyond that , america ’s much-vaunted equality of opportunity is under threat . elite schools recruit the wealthy to pay their bills and to court minorities to redress centuries of discrimination ; but this undoubtedly fosters resentment among the white working class , whose children find no place in this brave new world . elite schools recruit the wealthy to pay their bills and court minorities to redress centuries of discrimination ; yet this undoubtedly fosters resentment among the white working class , whose children find themselves in this brave new world .
some people will not want this kind of attention , whether because they are already well-known personalities trying to fend off registry fans or mooches , or simply because they become uncomfortable with unfamiliar actors know so much about them . indeed , many online services now offer to connect user users with their facebook friends or linkedin connections or recommend activities or restaurants based on past behavior or current location . some people will not want this kind of attention , whether because they are already well-known personalities attempting to fend off regioring fans or mooches , or simply because they are uncomfortable with recognized entities that know so much about them . website startups may even want to check their users ’ profiles on the angel list database of angel investors , viewing them as potential sources of financing . once a company identifies which user users have the most influence – well-known bloggers , for example , he might offer them better treatments , hoping they would recommend services .
french catholics today feel as though their historically privileged position is under assault , through the rise of islam and islamist-inspired terrorist attacks , as well as legislation that has increasingly challenged their way of life . yet fillon ’s supporters also reject multiculturalism , and they have responded to its status anxieties by dismissing expertise . french politics has no analogue to america ’s alt-right milieu – with its conspiracy theories , talking shows , online trolling , and fake news – that has fueled trump ’s campaign . with france becoming less catholic and the us becoming more varied , their “ zombie ” armies ’ political power will decay ; but , as trump ’s election does and fillon ’s political ascendance showed , they can not be written off only yet . for many conservative catholics , same-sex marriage was a tipping point , while leftist catholics have even found themselves crowded out of the right .
for better or for worse , our central banks are managing the quantity and flow of money by withdrawing or adding paper assets to stocks held by private-sector banks . and vice versa , when the us authorities are keen to cool down the economy , the authorities are keen to cool down the economy . for better or worse , our central banks are running the quantity and flow of money by withdrawing or adding paper assets to stocks held by private-sector banks . but the more successful libra becomes , the more the money people will shift from their bank accounts to their libra wallet , and the less able central banks will be to stabilize the economy . in the us , the banks then have more cash to lend ; so , too , do n’t .
with the american invasion of iraq in 2003 , french-american relations had reached a low point . the bush administration felt betrayed by french diplomatic tactics in the united nations , while french president jacques chirac felt reaffirmed in his mistrust of the sole superpower and his call for a modern-day multipolar world . today , on the eve of the french presidential election , opinion polls show that more than three-quarters of french voters believe that france should distance itself , not less , from the united states . despite a long history of an alliance dating back to the american revolution and involving two world wars , france has always had a rather ambivalent attitude toward america , and the iraq war was not the first time that a more controversial us security policy undercut america ’s attractiveness in france . polls show similar reactions following the suez crisis of 1956 , the vietnam war in the late 1960 ’s and early 1970 ’s , and the deployment of intermediate-range missiles in europe in the early 1980s .
tax competition is not the way to go , not least because it reduces the revenues needed to make such investments , particularly in developing countries – which , according to a 2015 international monetary fund report , lose more than $ 200 billion a year because of tax avoidance by multinational companies . when countries create tax regimes that are effectively intended to steal tax revenues from others , the result is also lower money for education , health-care provision , poverty-reduction programs , and measures to address climate change . none of this should be allowed to happen , with multinational corporations stopped adding to the problem by threatening to leave countries unless taxes be slashed . a fundamental tenet of corporate social responsibility , after all , is that firms should pay their fair share of taxes wherever they operate . they can do so in a variety of ways , like by investing in training , financing scientific and technological research , and building efficient infrastructure .
what ’s more , the rapid expansion of etfs coincided with bull markets . from stretched stock and bond valuations , slowing economic and earnings growth , and heightened political and policy uncertainty . broad market-returns are likely to be lower , with episodes of volatility arguably more frequent . in the us , index performance has largely dictated security-related selection , and the distribution of asset values has meant little more than accumulations of stocks , bonds , and credit . but , as a result , those days are likely to come to an end ; in the us , they are more likely .
cambridge – economics teaches that measuring an individual ’s well-being is the quantities and variety of goods that he or she can consume . in fact , consumption is the goal ; it is the means by which it is the means to do it . nobody can deny that this consumer – and market-centric vision of the economy have produced plenty of fruit . markets , rather than communities , are the unit and object of analysis . consumption options are in turn maximized by giving firms the freedom they need to take on new technologies , dividing labor , economies of scale , and mobility .
the internet now links almost half the world ’s population and another billion people – like some 20 billion devices – to forecast connections within the next five years . some estimates put the internet ’s economic contribution to global gdp as high as $ 4.2 trillion in 2016 . but continued expansion is by no means guaranteed . fragmentation – meaning the end of the internet – is a real threat . a fragmented “ splinternet ” would be extremely costly to the world , though that is one of the possible futures outlined last month at the world internet governance report , chaired by former swedish prime minister carl bildt .
the fracking revolution , widely viewed as originating in the us , helped lower energy prices and removed america ’s dependence on foreign oil . likewise , much of the rapid advance in recent years reflected innovations – smartphone and tablet hardware and software , for example – that were indigenous to the us at the time . that sounded like an enjoyable experience – perhaps a learning experience – for young men who would otherwise be idle and unemployed . but it was hardly a great inspiration for the future that may help to explain why roosevelt ’s new deal could not have ended america ’s economic malaise . on the contrary , america ’s apparent relative strength today may reflect some highly visible recent inspirations .
and roughly 445 million people will need improved access to safe water supplies , part of the drop in unpaid care work carried out by women in the developing world . that ambitious agenda will not be delivered effectively without action from governments working in concert with the private sector and nongovernmental organizations . it will require the additional investment , creating job opportunities for women , and introducing measures to help women shift to more productive work . mgi has identified several interventions worldwide that could easily be deployed more broadly . measures set out to improve access to education include building more secondary schools ; ensuring that girls are given sanitation facilities in workplaces by study ; and creating financial incentive structures – including cash transfers – to raise enrollment and keep girls in school .
predictably , the iom lacks a mechanism to evaluate whether national governments use coercion , banned under international law , to repatriate or relocate refugees . but , like the unhcr , governance issues plague the iom . heavily dependent on donors and host governments to launch relief operations , it is beholden to their interests , and does not always have the political backing that it needs to get the job done . the unhcr , as currently conceived , is not the autonomous , nonpartisan agency it claims to be . its other major multilateral migration agency , a iom , assists in return for migrants , asylum-seekers , refugees , and internally displaced people to their place of origin or to other countries or regions that have agreed to take them out .
beyond being incomplete , this approach implicitly favors the wealthy , who hold disproportionately large amounts of financial assets . meanwhile , firms have become increasingly belligerent in their efforts to slash their corporate tax bills , including through so-called inversions , by which they shift their pockets to lower-tax jurisdictions . as a result , most countries are facing a trio of unequal inequalities – income , wealth , and opportunity – that , left unchecked , reinforce one another , with far-reaching consequences . with political gridlock blocking the appropriate fiscal response – following the recovery in 2008 , the united states congress has failed to pass the annual budget , the basic component of responsible economic governance for five years – central banks have been forced to shore up economies artificially . to do so , they have relied on near-zero interest rates and unconventional measures , like quantitative easing to spur growth and job creation .
and even the administration ’s plan to favor skilled over the unskilled workers will not necessarily reduce the number of rural legal migrants . all told , trump has governed like a populist plutocrat – that is , a pluto-populist . according to one view , he runs the argument that social conservatives and white-blue-collar supporters in rural areas will vote through nationalist and religious sentiment and antipathy toward secular coastal elites , rather than for their own financial interests . but how long can anyone be expected to support trump ’s “ god and guns ” at the expense of “ breadand butter ” ? but why does his base allow him to do away with pursuing policies that mostly harm them ?
unfortunately , february 23 is not the red army ’s only remaining relic . the holiday won its current name in 2006 , and , according to a recent survey by the russian pollster fom , some 59 % of russians regard it as special or substantial ( 32 % do not ) . the exemptions range from medical conditions to given university students and staff of particular organizations ( such as the police ) . while all other large european countries have abolished military conscription in recent decades , russia is continuing , with a system in which all physically-fit male citizens aged 18 to 27 must serve for 12 months . another soviet military legacy is obligatory conscription ’s proposal .
paris – tunisia , one of the arab league ’s 22 members , stands in the throes of a great and profound crisis , however perhaps one with a favorable resolution . it is by far the smallest north african country , covering 163,000 square kilometers , more or less double that of belgium , the netherlands , and luxembourg – and comprising a population of 10.5 million . it is also full of charm and moderation in its climate , history , and culture . it was once a pillar of the roman republic ’s cultural dynamism and influence . the first african region to be christianized , it was the land of the saint augustine and a major source for catholic evangelism in africa .
true , any arab – indeed , virtually anyone – knows precisely who was responsible for khashoggi ’s disappearance : crown prince mohammed bin salman of saudi arabia . but the fact that a well-known cartoonist was to dress up the culprit ’s image speaks volumes about the fear felt by independent journalists in the arab world . across the region , khashoggi ’s disappearance has merely deepened their anxiety . arab countries have a long history of rewarding journalists who buttress an official line while punishing those , like khashoggi , who dare to speak truth to power . since the failed arab spring revolutions – of which tunisia is the only success story – citizens across the region have found themselves with stark choices between radical islamist regimes and military rule .
second , complex instruments should be traded on exchanges , rather than over-the-counter markets , and should be standardized in ways that liquid secondary markets can emerge . third , we need better financial supervision and regulation of the financial system , including regulation of opaque or highly leveraged financial institutions like hedge funds and even sovereign wealth funds . fourth , the role of ratings agencies needs some rethought , with more regulation and competition introduced . easing financial liberalization will be difficult ; but its negative side effects – including greater systemic risk – require a range of reforms . first , there are more data and transparency about complex assets , and on whom they hold .
and yet it is only one of the many domestic challenges facing the region . for starters , the region ’s governments need to develop their own national-security capacities , defend themselves against non-existential threats and hegemonic expansionism . of course , they should continue engaging with the outside world , bolstering their strategic relationships and alliances . but they also must become far less interdependent to others . arabs must take charge of their own agenda and become the primary force defining their future , and that of their countries .
this wisdom prevailed not only in india ; it influenced policies accordingly across a broad range of developing countries . one of the empirical investigations most often cited for this argument is the recent paper by timothy besley and robin burgess , using production data across indian states for the period 1958-92 . besley and burgess argued that pro-worker regulation in particular states resulted in lower output , employment , investment and productivity , and even increasing urban poverty , relative to states that fail to adopt such regulations . that conclusion came to underpin the conventional wisdom that labor-market regulation is harmful to industrial expansion , and that the way to raise manufacturing and jobs in manufacturing was to promote more labor-market “ flexibility ” by repealing laws protecting workers . now a fresh paper by servaas storm effectively grumbles of neoliberal economics : the argument that the labor market “ rigidities ” depress output and employment .
britain ’s economic prospects have become increasingly reliant on events beyond its shores , whether just across the english channel , or in china or california . swelling migration pressures are threatening to overwhelm any pretense at border controls . the recent political cartoon showed the british magazine bombers take off onto a mission , with one pilot saying to the others , “ this seems a long way to go to bomb a few young male men in south london . ” the environmental hazards blasted migration in the wind . security concerns are increasingly framing foreign and domestic policies in parallel .
after that election , perhaps heady with the magnitude of his support , he proposed deepening his revolution with new laws in the organization of society and the economy . such laws , already passed but not yet fully implemented , should serve as the catalyst for a new intra-country institutional arrangement , one supposedly premised on a direct relationship between the leader and people and a progressive hollowing out of democratic institutions . given this history , it is noteworthy that in his speech the day following his victory , chávez called for coexistence , dialogue , debate , and all working together for venezuela ’s good . in the meantime , every bodies of public power – all of them – now obey chávez . he emphasized that the people voted in favor of chávez and socialism .
genes can be corrupted by environmental factors like radiation and chemicals . they can also be damaged by the products of routine metabolism . our bodies have elaborate repair systems that preserve the integrity of our genes even in the presence of damaging agents . occasionally , however , the damage is not corrected at all . if the damage occurs in the key genes that regulate cell growth , cancer might develop .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to america ’s interests elsewhere around the world . ithaca – the internet was once hailed as a powerful democratizing force , allowing innovative start-ups to compete with established enterprises , eroding entire industries , and creating new ones . but , as some of those startups have grown into behemoths , they have turned that force on their head . far from leveling the playing field , big tech is now owning it mostly ; and rather than reforming its economy , the internet has ended up exacerbating the problem of inequality around the world .
still , one left wonders if this new collaborative bonhomie and ethnic bonding will prove powerful enough to cut through not only the long history of distrustful interactions between the us and china , but also the destabilizing effects of china ’s abrupt economic rise ? still , one is left to wonder if this new collaborative bonhomie and ethnic bonding will prove powerful enough to cut through not only the long history of distrustful interactions between the us and china , but also their destabilizing effects on china ’s sudden economic rise ? in announcing a new sino-us joint research effort , chu described clean energy as “ one of the great opportunities of our time-honored cooperation , saying by working together that we can accomplish more than [ by acting alone ] . ” for , though america has drawn strength from the ideal of a “ melting pot ” – and president barack obama ’s cabinet represent a new high water mark for diversity – americans have frequently shown xenophobic mistrust of allowing immigrants to draw too close to power . specifically , in the chinese case , fears of divided national loyalties and about fifth columnists ” have been strong .
on a cyclically adjusted basis , greece ’s total budget would show a surplus of 0.6 % of gdp this year . greece ’s economic weakness raises the current level of deficits . five years of falling gdp have depressed fiscal receipts and increased transfer payments . the imf estimates that these cyclical effects on revenues and outlays raised the overall deficit by nearly 5 % of greek gdp . that also implies that if greece could escape from its current recession , its national debt would decline , both absolutely and as a share of gdp .
as indian prime minister manmohan singh put it during wen ’s visit to beijing , “ india and china can together reshape the world order . ” when i first visited india as an american government official in the late 1970s , i was struck by my indian hosts ’ fixation on gaining an equal status with china . then , in 1998 , after india tested its nuclear weapons , then-us defense secretary yong-bihari vajpayee talked about china as india ’s number one foe . by contrast , on more recent visits to india , i found my hosts alluded to the need to learn from china . the two countries ’ recent rapprochement marks a monumental change from the hostility that compelled their relations following their 1962 war over a disputed border in the himalayas .
the head of the european banking authority , andrea enria , has issued new regulations that are not bank-friendly . since hildebrand was wealthy independently , this approach would not have worked easily with him . so , have he gotten the stick , instead of the carrot ? fortunately , for the rest of us , we seem to have a sound independent test . while one may debate the appropriateness of tightening accounting standards in the midst of a crisis , his order that banks increase their capital is entirely justified , especially at a time when the european central bank subsidizes them with a wall of three-year liquidity at near-zero cost .
second , and partly as a result , virtually all eurozone countries ’ debt is trading at a discount relative to german bunds . but now even the mighty bund have started to suffer from heightened market anxieties . it is still hard to think that the unthinkable , let alone work out the details of it , remains to be seen ; but any rational player has to consider the possibility now . while one need to price risk more precisely , it is hard to believe that the netherlands , with its debt-to-gdp ratio almost 20 percentage points lower than germany ’s , deserves to be considered a higher default risk . third , financial-market players , and , increasingly , real businesses are pricing in a possible eurozone breakup , if not an exit from the euro itself .
indeed , by coincidence , on sunday that the young football fan was assassinated in moscow , vladislav surkov , the first deputy in president dmitri medvedev ’s administration meeting michael mcfaul of president barack obama ’s national security council . that meeting took place as part of a gathering led by surkov , the russian youth-movement activists . you can always count on our support , and we do not know it . one quote from surkov shows that day is especially telling : “ make ready for an election , train your brains and muscles . you can always be counted on to use our support . ”
hong kong – sesame street , kermit ’s kermit frog , once lamented that “ it ’s not an easy bein ’ green . ” today , that sentiment is surprisingly relevant to the global economy , only to become green that critical . but , just as important as high-level deals are , they will amount to little unless they are backed by significant investment in fields like smart grids , energy storage , and renewables . last september , the intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) warned that if the world acts with “ business as usual , ” global temperatures could rise in excess of 4 ° c – far beyond the 2 ° c rise that has come to be viewed as a “ safe ” goal . this prompted un secretary-general ban ki-moon to call into question political , economic , and financial leaders in january to intensify their efforts to reach a new global climate-change deal by 2015 .
the search for the imf ’s new managing director provides a keen reminder of how ineffective today ’s international institutions are . the organization and the allocation of power at the un , the imf , the world bank , and the g7 meetings all reflect a global equilibrium that had vanished long before . after wwii , germany and japan were the defeated aggressors , the soviet union posed a major threat , and china has been engulfed in a civil war that pitched mao ’s communists to power . created in the postwar world of 1945 , they reflect realities that have long since come of age . much of the so-called “ third world ” was either recently independent or remained colonies ; all of it was very poor .
just before the 2016 brexit referendum , then-british prime minister david cameron produced a startling appeal to german chancellor angela merkel , imploring her to agree to a cap on the movement of people into the uk . merkel refused , leaving the brexit referendum passed by narrow france . the irony is that , nowadays , merkel faces the same anti-immigration backlash that cameron did in 2016 . but when immigration levels exceed a country ’s capacity to absorb new workers , severe economic and social costs can be imposed , at least over the short term . for the economy , immigration tends to be good for the economy over the long term , particularly if the ratio of pensioners to workers rises .
the odious debt idea was revived in an influential 2006 article by seema jayachandran and michael kremer – and , in a 2010 paper , the center for global development ( cgd ) , proposed that economic sanctions include a mechanism to prevent the accumulation of odious obligations . the cgd ’s report proposes that a regime should be seen to be odious if it abuses its population ’s human rights , employs military coercion , perpetrates electoral fraud and misappropriation of public money . in effect , that is what the trump administration has just done . the mechanism would take the form of the declaration that debt issued by a particular government is considered odious . such a declaration reduces the flow of money to odious regimes , owing to the risk that successor governments renounces their predecessor ’s debts without incurring legal and reputational costs ( because participating countries ’ courts will not enforce debt contracts ) .
that cleared the path for bhutto ’s return , who remains prime minister until 1996 , when she was dismissed yet again – this time by her own pakistan peoples ’ party ( pdp ) . in 2008 , musharraf resigned under popular pressure , and a new election brought asif zardari , the widower of benazir bhutto , who had been purged earlier december to his presidency . in 1997 , it was sharif ’s turn back . but his confrontation with the military intensified over the years , which resulted in yet another coup in 1999 , leading to another military rule under general pervez musharraf . ignoring constitutional requirements , zardari did not transfer the executive ’s authority over his prime minister , and instead expected the two prime ministers , who served under him , to follow through on his orders .
rich countries ’ transition from subsistence economies to sustained growth and prosperity was conditioned on a profound demographic shift -- occurring during the 19th century in western europe and throughout the 20 th century in east asia -- in which fertility rates declined dramatically . the past two decades witnessed similarly sharp fertility declines in poor countries that are now displays of robust signs of economic progress . in egypt , for example , fertility rates declined from 4.8 to 2.9 children per woman over the past 15 years ; in egypt , for example , fertility rates declined from 4.8 to 2.9 children per woman . during the same period , tunisia ’s population growth rate fell to over 50 % , to europe ’s moderately more than two children per woman , while per capita income grew at an impressive 3 % annual rate . during the past decade , egypt ’s average annual per capita income grew by more than 2.6 % .
it has built and begun its first aircraft carrier , and has plans to launch more of them . both countries , too , are on a similar path militarily . though china still has much catching up to do , its overall defense spending is already second only to america ’s . it is developing and deploying an anti-access/area-denial ( a2/ad ) defense system . in response to former us president barack obama ’s effort to establish the pacific-rim trade bloc to contain china , xi has launched his belt and road initiative ( bri ) , which is now meeting with the american-led indo-pacific initiative under trump .
america ’s misadventure in iraq , its exhaustion as a world power , and its unwillingness to maintain its previous levels of commitment to the region have rendered the sykes-picot structure untenable because no other external force for order is available . indeed , a partial withdrawal of the us implies that an end to enforced stability in the old middle east will not spare the sykes-picot borders . developments in syria and iraq already suggest as much , and the future of lebanon and jordan has become increasingly uncertain . one of the region ’s few positive features is that no global power rivalries currently playing out there . the resulting vacuum has been filled by various currents of political islam , terrorism , protest movements , uprisings , secession efforts by national or religious minorities , and aspiring regional hegemons ( iran and saudi arabia ) .
in 2011 , chinese services provided 30 % more jobs per unit of output than did manufacturing and construction . that means that the chinese economy can achieve its all-important labor-absorption goals – employment , urbanization , and poverty reduction – with far slower gdp growth than in the past . in other words , the 7-8 % growth trajectory in an increasingly services-led us economy may hit the same labor-absorption targets that claimed 10 % growth as a result of china ’s previous model . after all , why are services so important for china ’s rebalancing ? for starters , services are far more labor-intensive than countries of the traditional growth sectors .
the united kingdom now seems certain to hold , through a june 2016 referendum on remaining in the eu , and the far-left party – determined , as in greece to break the rigors of economic reform – could win spain ’s general election next autumn . surely , events could turn positively , with the uk remaining part of the eu , and spain opting for the status quo or a more subdued vision of change than greece ’s syriza-led government has embraced . but the worst-case scenario for the eu ’s future looks increasingly likely : “ grexit ” ( greece is leaving the eurozone ) , “ brexit ” ( the uk leaves the eu ( leaving the eu ) , and a spanish electoral outcome reminiscent of greece . indeed , all euroskeptic and nationalist forces in eu member states would strive , with increasing achievement , for their respective countries ’ withdrawal from the eu , a central issue in domestic political debate and electoral campaigns . should such a perfect storm happen , the eu , in its very existential crisis , become in doubt , for other member countries would consider or begin planning their own post-eu futures .
cambridge : oil prices are near historic highs . oil prices are down at historic highs . aid to the poorest countries is stagnant , despite years of promised increases . and yet , in this gathering storm , it has been difficult to find a single true accomplishment by leading world leaders . with global economic growth , aid to the world ’s poorest countries is on the brink of recession .
two years earlier , in 2015 , mauricio macri won the presidency on his promise that fiscal adjustment and opening argentina to the world would spur an economic revival . deglobalization , nativism , and protectionism have set a new tone for policy , with frustration and uncertainty surrounding future overshadowing hope . instead , they paved the way for his defeat . frustration even afflicting the region ’s paragon of open-market politics , chile . in a few short years , the pro-market reforms and economic opening package seemed out to have been falling with the rest of the world .
this drive toward an off-the-grid , eat-what-you-raise , bike-there-on-your-own , solar-powered , collective fantasy is inevitable : americans were pumped full of hope that more consumption would make them happier and instead left with the pile of debt . they were asked to admire the top of the income pyramid , merely to find that they looked at the pyramid scheme . it is little wonder , therefore , that a kind of survivalist chic chic chic has become just as an updated version of the radical , communal chic chic of the 1960s . ronald reagan asserted in 1980 that it was “ morning in america , ” ” ” ” ” ” ; in america now , it ’s the morning after . americans lost their faith in those whom , in the boom times , purred , “ trust us . ”
to be sure , china is taking care to avoid any dramatic action that might become a casus belli by itself . indeed , it has repeatedly displayed a knack for disaggregating its multi-parts strategy , and then pursuing each element separately , in such a manner as to permit the various pieces to fall into place with little opposition . in fact , by camouflaging a offense as defense , china casts the burden of starting a war on its adversary , while attempting to arm a foundation – brick by brick – the us hegemonic middle kingdom . this shrewdness not only keeps opponents off the balance ; it also undercuts the relevance of america ’s security assurances to its allies , and the value of building countervailing strategic partnerships in asia . to be sure , china is taking care to avoid any dramatic action that might become a casus belli .
these cities are learning from one another , building on the good idea and jettisoning poorer ones . in the coming decades , we may see a global system of interconnected , sustainable urban growth that is now emerging . if successful , everyone will want to join in the club , another one that we will use to do so . fundamentally , this is the right approach to manage systemic risk and transform complex interconnected systems and manage successfully shared resources successfully , even though it has so far attracted the inexorable rise of global greenhouse-gas emissions . los angeles has taken decades to implement pollution controls , but other cities , like beijing , have converted rapidly since they saw the benefit .
new york – some years ago , as part of a western delegation to china , i met with chinese president xi jinping in beijing ’s marvelous hall of the people . when addressing the us , xi argued that it would be peaceful about china ’s rise , and that other countries – namely , the united states – need not fear the “ thucydides trap , ” ” ” ” so named for the greek historian andrew how sparta ’s scare about a rising athens made war there between the two inevitable . in his 2017 book destined for war : can america and china escape the thucydides trap ? undoubtedly , xi wanted the us to concentrate on the remaining four . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
new york – what is a reasonable view about china ’s recent history ? to put that crudely : does it matter that the chinese communist party ( ccp ) has killed millions upon millions of people , desecrate its environment , and deeply wounded china ’s traditional culture ? things are finally moving in the right direction , and let ’s do n’t ; please , do anything that might upset that hopeful movement in the first place . what , then , is a reasonable view of china ’s recent history in a different way ? chinese intellectuals tend to avoid the issue , shrugging it off as irrelevant and anyway too uncomfortable to claim .
london – what do the recently released panama papers , exxonmobil , and the canadian mining company operating in guatemala have in common ? everyone is experiencing cases where powerful individuals and organizations have been trying to obfuscate , deceive , or hide behind an front . the global uproar triggered by the panama papers – the 11.5 million filings taken , apparently by computer hackers , from the world ’s fourth-largest offshore law firm , panama ’s mossack fonseca – is likely to continue for some time . the file ’ dismissal has exposed the extreme and sometimes costly , lengths that individuals go to hide their assets and avoid taxation . and all are the cases where that effort has n’t worked .
some will say that the fatal error was enabled by greece ’s takeover of the euro . its fiscal policies had already fallen out of control when it joined the monetary union in 2001 , with its trade unions agitating to put pressure on wages up to european levels , despite lagging productivity . but that answer is all too simple , given that such signs of dysfunction are not confined to greece . the longer-term consequences will not be savory , but problems there will be another day . some will say that the fatal mistake has been allowing greece to adopt the euro .
prime minister david cameron and german chancellor george osborne share the blame for the euro crisis ; indeed , their own economic “ illiteracy ” is to blame . depressions , recessions , contractions – call them what you will – occur because the private-sector spends less than it did in the past . unfortunately for all of us , the explanation bears a repeat of nowadays . that policy was destined to produce the financial crisis because it was bound to leave governments and banks with depleted assets and bigger debts . despite austerity , this year ’s forecast for the uk ’s structural deficit has increased , from 6.5 % to 8 % , demanding an additional £ 22 billion ( $ 34.6 billion ) in cuts every year .
paris – last month , the concentration of co2 in the atmosphere surpassed 400 parts per million ( roughly three million years ) for the first time in roughly three million years . if the current trend , which fits the worst-case scenario laid out by the intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) , persists , co2 concentrations will rise above 800 ppm toward the end of this century – with devastating consequences . indeed , the predicted global mean temperature rise of 2.4-6.4 º c due to such high ambient co2 concentration is expected to trigger worst-case outcomes foreseen under the ipcc scenarios , including losses of an estimated 40 % of species , more frequent extreme weather events , and widespread water scarcity . even in the ipcc ’s best-case scenario , the concentration of co2 will rise to 550 ppm by the end of the century – a level that many researchers argue would already be too high to avoid dire consequences . to prevent this risk and uncertain on future generations , global carbon emissions – which stand at 8.5 gigatons annually – must be halved by 2050 .
the us has turned a corner in rebuilding its fisheries and ensuring sustainable management . because fish and other ocean wildlife will not stay within national boundaries , any international cooperation is vital to the world ’s oceans ’ long-term health and the sustainability of fisheries and fishing jobs . good science is the cornerstone of the two policies , which we all have in common . the european commission has just submitted its proposal to reform the shared fisheries policy plan , which was designed to help rebuild europe ’s fisheries . but it is inadequate to get our respective houses in order .
today , ’s transformational health-care advances owe much to new genomic information , the availability of big data to influence real-time decisions , more focused and individualized therapies , and smarter , more interconnected delivery systems . technologies that engage patients in their own health care and enable more seamless adherence to drug regimes have the potential to improve the governance of disease , reduce the cost of hospitalization , and lower costs . further breakthroughs , enabled by the ongoing convergence of science and technology , are likely to be expected , especially as the unconventional players enter the health-care sector . at the same time , however , they are just the beginning ; they are just the start of a choice . in the process , the health-care partnerships will become increasingly important as well .
even in a tightly managed economy like china , massive capital inflows have been able to find the way around the controls over the past decade . moreover , establishing controls on one type of inflow simply lead to its being disguised in other forms . they create a layer of protection from competition for those who are better connected , politically or economically , or have the sheer heft to get past restrictions . capital controls have real costs , even when they fall short of stanch inflows . when the incentives for money to flow across borders are robust , they will find a way , abetted by the proliferation of multi-country firms with multi-country operations and expanding international trade , serving as a conduit for masking capital flows and evading controls .
political crises , however sensational they may be , are not likely to change investors ’ economic calculus . political crises , however sensational they may be , are not likely to change investors ’ economic calculus . it may emerge only slowly , but it may fundamentally alter the calculus for risk pricing and potential returns . so what is at play today is a fairly easy explanation from the basic factor : earnings build-up , inflation has been kept at bay , and the global economy appears likely to experience wide , synchronized expansion . in october , the international monetary fund updated its global outlook for predicting that only a handful of small countries will suffer a recession next year .
more than once krugman echoed krugman ’s assertion that osborne was motivated by the indecisiveness that he did not reduce the deficit , he might forfeit his investor confidence ( the vice-presidential running mate ) . just one week before the uk voted earlier this month , skidelsky speculated that voters , “ still wobbly from osborne ’s medicine , ” ” ” might “ decide that they had to stay in their luck . instead , the tories won the outright majority , confounding pollsters and keynesians alike . what could perhaps have gone wrong , or , rather , right ? skidelsky approvingly quoted krugman ’s assertion that britain had been “ doing worse this time than it did during the great depression . ”
to my right sat dagan , who has just finished eight years as mossad head ; to my left sat dore dore , the former academics and former israeli ambassador . the two men held very different views about how best to ensure israel ’s security , and it is worth recapitalizing their respective arguments . dagan argued that a military role is to safeguard israel ’s borders , regardless of where these borders are drawn . in may , he insisted that israel can guard against threats from the east only if it maintained a military presence in the west bank and controlled the jordan river , running along the border separating jordan from israel and the west bank . dagan argued that going back to the pre-1967 armistice lines would leave israel without “ defensible borders . ”
rather , global interest rates scraping a floor , because gdp growth outside the us is so sluggish . if a rip van winkle economist were to awaken today after decades-long sleep and see only those numbers , he or she will assume that one-fifth of americans are unemployed and standing in lines outside of soup kitchens . instead , america ’s jobless rate is at its nadir , as neil armstrong has taken his famous first step onto the moon ’s surface 50 years ago . the idea that america ’s victory in a global slump might sound like the sardonic musing of some unreconstructed marxist in the dingy corner of us faculty lounge . but such a view is not an ideological one , and should be the case now .
though not planted for climate action , these trees soak up their carbon dioxide emissions . new zealand successfully negotiated to include this specific emission offset in its global figures neatly balancing the actual increase . from 1990-2002 , new zealand ’s private-sector forest plantations increased by more than 1.4 million hectares . but growing forests also reduced new zealand ’s emissions in comparison year after the 1990 ’s . for safety , the country also bought lots of foreign offsets , including highly fallible ones from russia and ukraine .
berlin – finally , europe seems finally to have moved past its multi-year economic crisis , but it remains unsettled . there is much evidence to suggest that a hard landing awaits the united kingdom . in june 2016 , a slim majority of british voters chose nineteenth-century nostalgia over whatever promise of the twenty-first-century may hold . so they decided to jump off the cliff in the name of “ sovereignty . ” for every reason for optimism , there always seems to be a new cause for concern .
new york – the basic outlines of barack obama ’s foreign-policy approach became obvious in 2009 . his administration believes that the united states should talk with other governments , even as it disapproves profoundly of its character . and it has shifted the focus of american foreign policy away from what countries do within its borders to how it behaves beyond them . it prefers acting with other countries to going it alone . all of that differentiates obama from his immediate predecessor , george w. bush , whose administration , having designated countries as evil and mostly refused to deal with them ; often rejected cooperation with other governments , lest america find itself constrained ; and sought to turn other countries inward rather than influencing their actions .
in its present state , cap-and-trade schemes to cut emissions are far from being equitable and efficient ; a major improvement would include the establishment of the central climate bank to register and supervise the transfer of emission credits . this bank would also ensure that the emissions trading does not run counter to the target of remaining within the full global budget , for example through the full sale of individual developing countries ’ unused emissions credits at the start of the agreement period . but if the 2 ° c target is taken seriously , the twenty-first century will see countries that are still not so far down the path of de-carbonization ( such as large parts of africa ) or that are leaving it in time ( like india and pakistan ) to become wealthy by helping societies that must de-carbonize rapidly . at the moment , all of this remains utopian , hard for the moment . until now , the wealth of nations was based on the combustion of coal , gas , and the world ’s oil .
former us secretary of state hillary clinton blamed her loss on donald trump in the 2016 presidential election ; and the brexit vote that preceded it on the popular backlash against immigration and , recently , suggested that europe should admit fewer refugees to stem the rise of populism . gunter nooke , germany ’s african commissioner , has an even more unpalatable proposal : african countries should cede land to the european union as special economic zones in what would amount to “ voluntary colonialism . ” such a solution is not just unethical ; they would not end the crisis . in many countries , policymakers and the media have portraying refugees as a threat to security , cultural cohesion , and public resources . humanitarian aid alone wo n’t work , either except as stopgap measures .
since 1988 , iran has had a government-funded , well-regulated system for purchasing kidneys . according to a study published in 2006 by iranian kidney specialists , the scheme removed the waiting list for kidneys in that country without delivering an ethical issue . a charitable association of patients arranges the transaction for a set price , and no one except the seller gains from it . at the same time , a more systematic study of the iranian system remains to be seen . the bbc tv program of 2006 displayed many potential donors to turn away because of the failure to meet strict age criteria and those required to visit the psychologist .
with the advent of the cold war , us president harry s. truman of the administration and the american congress acknowledged the urgency of a european reconstruction . to that end , they authorized the epu ’s use of $ 350 million of the marshall plan funds . then , the concern was discrimination : european countries , worried about it , would find it easier to import from one another , but , lacking in dollars , would still refuse to import from america . moreover , us officials worried that epu would duplicate and undermine the functions of the newly created international monetary fund . at the moment , however , both narratives differ .
washington , dc – the brexit referendum in the united kingdom and the presidential race in the united states have shown , among other things , that public distrust of global integration is on the wane . isolationism and protectionism , taken too far , would break the trade-based economic engine that has delivered peace and prosperity to the world for decades . that mistrust could derail the new trade agreements that are currently on the move and impede the launch of future ones . as costa rica ’s former trade minister , i know how difficult it is for countries – developed and developing alike – to craft trading policies that deliver the benefits to all of their people . the dangers implied by that scenario should not be underestimated .
chávez is the loser not only because he gave the farc moral support to the farc ( he once described them as “ belligerents , ” ” ” not terrorists , and publicly named uribe the american stooge ) , but also because he is believed to be delivering the aid to the farc with covert military support . that backing appeared to be part of chávez 's own “ bolivarian ” socialist revolution , which used venezuelan petrodollars to bankroll left-wing governments in ecuador , bolivia , and cuba in the hope of building up regional anti-american alliances . the uribe-lula-calderón axis appears set to hold it together . there have been serious grounds for confidence in the past three years that latin america was going through one of its periodic bouts of left-wing destabilization , given bolivian president evo morales 's rise to ecuador 's leftist president rafael correa and their ringleader , chávez . but the recent worldwide spike in commodity prices has meant that chile , brazil , brazil , and mexico have experienced their own economic booms .
with house prices down , fewer americans will be willing , and able to maintain their profligacy . even if the american federal reserve continues its lower interest rates , lenders will not rush to bid up more bad mortgages . the bush administration hopes to forestall a wave of foreclosures , thereby passing the economy ’s problems on to the next president , just as it does with the iraq quagmire . its chances of succeeding are slim . for america today , the real question is only whether there will be a brief , sharp downturn or a more prolonged but shallower slowdown .
but , with language training and implementing something like the eu ’s lisbon strategy for growth and jobs ( which aims to create an innovative “ learning economy , ” underpinning inclusive social and ecological policies ) , mobility could be increased . but centralization carries its own costs . given the risk inherent in bets on policy convergence , labor mobility – which allows highly valuable human capital , particularly well-educated young people – leaves lagging regions for those offering more and better employment opportunities , could prove a critical tool for adjustment . as it stands , labor mobility is imperfect in the eu . but , with language training and implementation of something like the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs ( which aims to create an innovative “ learning economy , ” underpinning inclusive social and ecological policies ) , mobility could intensify .
“ it is not america ; you must work here ” is a popular joke . fixated on europe , they forget that they are living in moscow or irkutk , not paris or budapest . many of the new russians , working like the machinery of 16 hours per day , seven days every week , look at their more relaxed western counterparts with the disdain often found in asia ’s tiger economies . culturally we are predominantly european , but , with 8 % of our population , we find ourselves moslem , and we have inherited a lot from asia : co-citizens , cuisine , cultural traits , and a shared history . today , most russian elites feel not only europe , but also is too europe .
this represents the tragic departure for suu kyi , who had previously won the international acclaim – and the nobel peace prize – for her role in the struggle for democracy in myanmar . far from moving to stem this humanitarian crisis , suu kyi ’s government has aggravated it . while suu kyi does not control the military , which is leading the killing crackdown , her government has blocked un agencies from delivering vital emergency relief . the un population fund ( unfpa ) , the un ’s refugee agency ( unhcr ) , together with the children ’s fund ( unicef ) , has all pressed to halve work in the affected areas . other surrounding countries , including india , thailand , and malaysia , also are feeling the impact of the rohingya ’s plight .
european politics will continue to be consumed by the brexit negotiations next year . the challenge will be to reach an agreement that ensures the wellbeing of the future eu-uk relationship . this will be no easy feat , and eu negotiators have already set the timeline – for only 18 months . though eu-turkey relations are currently not at their best , the uk-eu dialogue must go forward in 2017 , not least because of their common interests – which stand to rely not only on economic interdependence , but also on the refugee crisis and the collective fight against terrorism . in march , the united kingdom will likely invoke article 50 of the lisbon treaty , triggering a formal process of withdrawal from the eu .
according to the american state department ’s own human-rights reports , curfews on religious freedoms have included the demolition of hindu temples , the bombings of the christian church , and a ban on the practice of shia islam to which some 15 % of the world ’s muslims abide . likewise , according to the pew research center , najib ’s government has had “ very high ” limits on religious freedom . according to the american state department ’s own human-rights reports , curfews on religious freedoms have included demolition of hindu temples , christian churches ’ bombings , and a ban on the practice of shia islam to which some 15 % of the world ’s muslims abide . moreover , najib ’s government endorse hudud , a class of sanctions within sharia law that might imply robust limitations on muslims ’ rights in a way that they are practicing their faith . to be sure , international law on the press freedom and corruption expose persistent deficits as well .
there are not many human activities , whose impact can reasonably be predicted for decades , centuries , or even millennia well in advance . the fallout from nuclear waste is one ; human ’ contribution to global warming through greenhouse-gas emissions from the combustion of fossil fuels and its impact on rising sea levels is another . yet the recent revelations about antarctica are actually different . indeed , the latest intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) report put it on uncharacteristically strong grounds that sea levels are “ “ “ virtually certain ” to continue rising through the centuries or even millennia . moreover , the greater the us and global emissions will continue to rise , the higher the seas will climb .
it is the continent that al-qaeda launched its war against the united states in 1998 , by bombing american embassies in nairobi , kenya , and dar es salaam , tanzania ; where boko haram kidnapped 276 nigerian schoolgirls in 2014 ; and where 147 students were killed in their sleep at kenya ’s garissa university in 2015 . while these attacks did garner global attention , most people do not recognize that in the last five years alone , an estimated 33,000 people have died in terrorism-related violence in africa . african countries are particularly vulnerable to violent ideologues , owing to the prevalence of weak institutions and ungoverned territory , where extremist groups may be marginalized . addis ababa – africa bears the brunt of lives lost , economies have been devastated , and relationships fractured by terrorism . violent extremism and groups espousing it threatens to reverse africa ’s development gains , not only in the near term , but also for decades to come .
the first problem is china ’s economy , so the surface dynamic , but such rickety underneath underneath . a massive $ rmb4 trillion ( $ 586 billion ) stimulus in november 2008 , much of it poured into loss-making state-owned enterprises through directed bank lending , sustained china ’s growth in the face of global recession . nonetheless , the price involved increasingly severe capital misallocation , resulting in growing portfolios of bad loans , while an outsize chinese household savings inflated a housing bubble . moreover , chi argues that the 2008 crisis shattered china ’s export-led growth model , owing to prolonged impairment of demand in the advanced countries . the analyst chi lucidly presents a picture of macro success alongside micro failure .
on human rights , the u.s. argues that there are , in fact , fundamental differences between the two countries of its own political traditions and contemporary systems . but , in the american view , this is vastly different from the organized national strategy of undermining the chinese state and its institutions . moreover , the u.s. is insisting on not including china ( as it did the soviet union ) ; on the contrary , china 's economic ascent was facilitated by access to u.s. markets , just as it did on global markets through america 's support for chinese accession to the world trade organization . xi , to his credit , has advanced what he describes as the concept of “ a new type of great power relationship , ” an ” attempt to pre-empt what the u.s. concluded by the others is the near-inevitability of a prolonged conflict between the rising powers ( china ) and the established power ( america ) . it is for these reasons that the bilateral strategy of a growing trust deficit is growing .
yet this is simplistic , at best . for starters , tax competition among jurisdictions is quite different from competition among market firms . and there is little evidence that the us corporate-tax burden actually falls on employees , more than for capital . still , market liberals would argue for corporate taxes “ distort ” behavior and hampers wealth creation . the nonpartisan us congressional budget office ( cbo ) and the institute for taxation and economic policy research , among others , have shown clearly that more than 80 % of the impact on corporate taxation falls on us shareholders , not workers .
physicians are not gods , but increasingly playing god by refusing to use life-extending techniques for the patients and the families they want , and are even willing to pay their way . the only recourse for dissatisfied patients is to leave the country or go to the courts . there is little doubt that holland spends substantial amounts of money on caring for the old people . in holland , no private medicine exists . european welfare states thus face a grave dilemma .
unfortunately , it is far from clear that the chinese agenda for infrastructure development can be exported universally . in democratic india , for example , it took eight years to rebuild mumbai ’s airport on charges of new roads , bridges , and dams , and for many years ran roughshod over environmental concerns and workers ’ rights . today , some developing countries in asia are working differently . china ’s powerful central government overwhelms the opposition of people displaced by new roads , bridges , and dams , and for many years has ran roughshod over environmental concerns and workers ’ rights . the parallels for the old soviet union , indeed , are striking .
it is also easy to fall into the mindset of the tax cuts as a way to boost aggregate demand . but congressional republicans might insist on paying for personal-income tax cuts by capping deductions that individuals now use to pay below their tax bills . the tax plan put forward in the name of the republicans by paul ryan , the speaker of the us house of representatives , calls for eliminating all deductions other than those for charitable contributions and medicare . that change would raise revenue equal to about 1 % of gdp , enough to pay for very substantial cuts in individual tax rates . and , even with revenues to be earned , owing to the vast expansion of airports , companies might feel discouraged by the need to rely on long-dated pricing deals .
nairobi – african countries are often criticized for failing to meet their environmental challenges . observers often cite habitat loss in the face of population growth , land degradation , and industrialization . and then there is the , often most frequent charges of all : that increased poaching endangering species like elephants and rhinos . begun in the aberdare mountains in central kenya , “ rhino ark , ” ” originally conceived to protect the heavily endangered black rhino to the ravages of poachers , supports the very people who might resist it : local communities in some of the country ’s most productive farming areas . yet an innovative , expansive conservation project is under way in kenya .
there is nothing cyclical about the enduring aftershocks of the balance-sheet recession that have now been apparent for nearly five years . indeed , the us balance-sheet repair has barely begun for american households . the personal-saving rate stood at just 3.7 % in august 2012 , up from the low point of 2005 , but about half the 7.5 % average recorded over the previous three decades of the twentieth century . moreover , the us debt overhang remains massive . the re-voluted rationale behind such a strategy is fairly troubling , not only for the us , but also for the global economy . the personal-saving rate stood at a mere 3.7 % in august 2012 , up from its 1.5 % low in 2005 , but about half the 7.5 % average recorded over the previous three decades of the twentieth century .
europe ’s currency crises of 1992 and 1993 , like the more recent ledger , demonstrate that a successful transition was far from guaranteed . moreover , the desire to be admitted into the club led to favorable reforms in many aspiring member countries , notably the central and eastern european countries that later joined the european union . ecb president mario draghi deserves the top-marks to counterbalance germany ’s demand for fiscal discipline , and the mediterranean needs for a accommodation . a second early achievement was that , by virtually any measure of international use , the euro instantly became the world ’s second-world reserve currency . more recent entries into the “ success ” ledger include progress in some periphery countries , particularly spain , reducing their previously uncompetitive unit labor costs .
europe ’s economy is sliding into a severe and , to all likelihood , protracted recession , largely self-inflicted . while germany continues to try to banish the specter of hyperinflation with rigid eurozone austerity measures , eu crisis countries face a genuine threat of deflation , with potentially catastrophic consequences . hungary , where democratic backsliding seems to take hold , provides a foretaste of a europe in which the euro crisis and deflation persist . if she gets unlucky , the crisis will arrive at the pinnacle at the beginning of german elections year , and all of the previous calculation could be moot , because , despite germans ’ frustration with europe , the eu would punish massively those allowing europe to default . it is only a matter of time – no longer very much anymore – before economic destabilization frees political instability .
it sets a new norm for the nuclear-weapons treaty ’s obligations and verification . even today , through a variety of sophisticated means , we can detect very small nuclear tests in remote sites . the ctbt is needed because of the role that development nuclear tests play in improving and improving nuclear weapons . such trials are also political symbols that have little place in a world determined to eliminate these abhorrent weapons of weapons of mass destruction . the treaty also consists of fair — it includes the same rights and responsibilities for all its parties .
us leaders need leaders with enough mastery of detail , like china ’s last premier , zhu rongji , who can not merely tell us about how to get us from under the to z , but can actually steer us from to b. after all , their ability to act is constrained by their respective leaders ’ models . their ability to act is constrained by their political environments , too . looking around , leaders like these look like the extinct species . the best example is us president barack obama , on whom so many hoped have rested – probably too many for any single leader . or , when they exist on their own , they appear to be shunted off to dysfunctional political systems .
palestine ’s quest for statehood within june 4 , 1967 , fell squarely within international law . today , palestinians are pushing for statehood on a mere 22 % of the territory that was made a matter of compulsory palestine until israel was unilaterally established on areas much larger than it was awarded under un general assembly resolution 181 in 1947 . the un security council resolved in november that “ acquisition of territory by means of war ” is unacceptable . subsequent security council resolutions , and international treaties , have upholding that principle . in fact , a palestinian state founded on the 1967 borders is precisely what us president barack obama has called for .
indeed , some argue that the inventiveness and internationalism of a world networked level of interests and shared causes is probably more resilient than one crammed into artificial , increasingly constraining , the national box . in that sense , the economic success of the us in china or india may be those states ’ undoing , as middle-class political aspirations render contemporary dysfunctional arrangements impossible . the question for international governance is how to provide an overarching framework of governance and rules in a world of competing organizational structures . the policymakers ’ answers are depressingly predictable : in the face of a resurgent russia and china this comes no time to abandon us states and diplomacy to their fate . conversely , the us may find ourselves in a world whose eastern half is organized into powerful authoritarian state-branch , with the west embracing national-association models .
at its 2013 third plenum , the ccp announced 60 goals for economic and governance reforms . the anti-corruption campaign reflects the ccp ’s apparent determination to strip itself of vested interests . many hope that these changes will help the ccp to become more efficient , enhance the market ’s role , and to avoid the so-called middle-income trap that has shaped many emerging-market countries . nonetheless , the party ’s rhetoric reveals little about how these goals will play out . indeed , there are worrying signs that the principal architect of its reform agenda , the noted free-market economist li keqiang , is already sidelined .
curtailing the flow of recruits is even more vital , and it must be expanded . another component of any strategy must be to counter is ’s appeal and propaganda . countries can do more to try to force individuals to leave for iraq or syria ; a europe-wide watch list , for example , would help . such flows should take off both governments and financial institutions . but nothing would have an larger impact than turkey ’s decision to find that it will no longer allow itself to be a conduit , and to enforce united nations security council resolution 2178 , which calls for stronger international cooperation against terrorism .
now it is the us , the supposedly hostile west , and the threat posed by “ color revolutions ” to russia ’s hard-won stability . political technology means covertly sponsoring fake politicians like bogdanov , setting fake ngo ’s and unpatriotic ” youth movements like nashi ( the us ) , to prevent a russian version of ukraine ’s orange revolution , and mobilizing voters against a carefully scripted “ enemy . ” in 1996 , the communists were the ones ; in 1999-2000 , the chechens ; in 2003-04 , the “ oligarchs ” behind each other . we also need to understand the mechanics of russia ’s succession politics . medvedev himself may find some or all of this nasty , but russia now has an entire industry of political manipulation that is hardly likely to go away overnight .
in a wider context , hungary ’s re-integration into western institutional structures runs steadily , if not at the desired pace . the visegrád group , cefta , a central european initiative produced a thriving free trade system and increased investment flows among countries in the region . so our task was not just to reconstitute the nation-state , but to society all too -- its family values , its national traditions , and its cultural heritage . our newly freed societies now must learn the languages of our constituent parts just as we learned a new economic and political language . through learning each other ’s languages , through cooperation on shared values , common interests as well as historical ties , central europe demonstrated what spectacular results could be achieved .
in 1988 , conservationists chose to finance and build a electrified fence to protect an area of aberdare national park bordering smallholder farms . the aberdare mountains , encompassing 2,000 square kilometers of indigenous forest and a vital water-catchment area , as well as a national park , are vitally important to kenya . the fence was designed to avoid intrusion into human population and degradation of park ’s habitat . but it was also to protect farmers , whose crops were regularly devastated by marauding elephant and other wildlife . the aberdare mountains , encompassing 2,000 square kilometers of indigenous forest and vital water-catchment zones , as well as the national park , is vitally important for kenya .
first , social inequality has grown unabated in the west over the past quarter-century , owing partly to the soviet union ’s disappearance and , with it , an threat of an expansionist communism . yet , with communism collapsed in its eurasian heartland , the west ’s wealthy , believing that they had nothing more to fear , pressed to roll back the welfare state , causing inequality to rise rapidly . this was tolerable as long as the overall pie expanded , but the 2008 global financial crisis put that end . the specter of revolution forced western elites to use the state ’s power to redistribute wealth and nurture the growth of a loyal middle class . this was tolerable as long as the overall pie expanded , yet the 2008 global financial crisis put an end to that .
indeed , colombia is far worse today than the chicago equivalent of al capone . so , too , are some other latin american , caribbean , and asian countries . indeed , in 1998 , the un estimates the global value of illicit drug trade of $ 400 billion , or 7 % of global trade . critics say that the figure is just half that – still an impressive sum . drug prohibition effectively imposes a tax on illicit drug trade , enforced by governments , and gathered by those willing to violate us laws .
but the railroad ’s first section , initiated by stalin to offer an eastern route that ran further away from the chinese border , was built by forced labor , including russian inmates and german and japanese prisoners of war , herded together in so-called bamlags , now ghost towns . tatiana insisted that bam construction had begun in 1974 , a politically correct timeframe after which to use “ clean labor ” . even when the volunteers were used , it was nowhere near as skewed as the official account claim . still , brezhnev-era construction nonetheless showed what the dying soviet system was still capable of achieving . lacking adequate housing and electricity , few re-enlisted , and many deserted before to finish their term .
and , with support at around 26-29 % , italy remains popular , despite its poor performance running the city council of rome . the problem for m5s is that , owing to its new electoral law , it will need to win roughly 40 % of the popular vote to secure a parliamentary majority . whereas proportional representation will determine two-thirds of the lower house ’s seats , one-third will vote first-past-the-post voting in single-member constituencies where m5s will likely lose , because it is neither willing nor able to form the electoral alliances needed to secure majorities . in fact , the party grouping that will benefit the most from the current electoral system is the only one that has managed to forge an overhaul of the other parties : the berlusconi-led center right . as demonstrated with its electoral victories in 1994 , 2001 , and 2008 , berlusconi ’s greatest strength has always been building coalitions .
per india ’s code of political conduct , budget changes were deferred until after elections . yet , under the pre-provisional budget rule , upa ’s government finally bit the bullet , it proposing a 14.2 % increase in railway fares and a 6.5 % hike on freight rates . it is true that coalition politics has prevented decisive action , with a railway minister being summarily dismissed by his own party leader , whom the upa was politically unable to confront – after an effort to raise fares . soon after taking office , the modi government announced its intention to implement price increases , though officials made sure to emphasize that they were merely following through on the existing mandate . upa ’s critics long argued that unsustainably low , state-dictated passenger fares and freight fee charges on railway services that could not cover the maintenance cost to trains ’ safety and tracks , much less enable expansion and improvements in service , reflecting the government ’s inability to make tough choices .
coupled with the government ’s plan to create an even more problematic national register of citizens , the authorities will be able to disenfranchise any indian muslim who is unable to prove his or her provenance in india . while non-muslims would , thanks to the approved bill , get a free pass , similarly undocumented muslims suddenly bear the onus of demonstrating that they are indian . in fact , many indians , especially the poor , lack documentary evidence of when and where they were born ; even birth certificates have become widespread only in recent decades . under an approved bill , muslim immigrants may be declared illegal . this marks a breathtaking departure from seven decades of practice in managing an astonishing level of cultural diversity .
new york – the collapse of ltcm in 1998 was entirely unexpected . is europe today poised to deal with the similar failures of an important financial institution ? having just emerged from a deep recession , financial disruptions could easily cause europe to slide back into recession , particularly given the european economy ’s close links with russia through trade and energy . financial sanctions against russia are not targeted , temporary , or fully credible . compounding the problem , no one truly understands the precise connections among russian and european institutions and markets .
gdp has almost tripled over the last 20 years , yet , with real wages rising at less than half of that rate , growth has become decoupled from ordinary citizens ’ fate . signs of social distress are multiplying . south korea is troubled for two key reasons . south korea ’s divorce rate has more than doubled , its fertility rate has plummeted to its fourth lowest among advanced economies , and its suicide rate is the highest in the oecd . more than half of middle-income households are spending more than they earn every month .
while the european union lags behind the united states in terms of conventional weapons , its capacity to fight terrorism is probably higher . for historical reasons , europe benefits from a political maturity that allowed it to avoid bush ’s manichean worldview , which merely reinforced , rather than undermined , an enemy of fanaticism . police actions must be merciless , even if that means more scrutiny and supervision . it is precisely to prevent the evolution of the collective security fear that we need to change the equilibrium between security and liberty . this may mean eliminating shadowy “ tax havens , ” tapping phone lines , and identifying individuals perceived as highly dangerous .
while in the us house of representatives , mulvaney received huge donations from the payday loan industry that makes most of his gains from lending at high interest rates to people who had no alternative when they so desperately needed cash . ross should read mehrsa baradaran ’s informative book , how the other half of the banks themselves , reflecting the high cost of credit to low-income families . or he might just ask mick mulvaney , a acting white house chief of staff . or he might just ask mick mulvaney , a acting white house chief of staff . mulvaney , too , has devoted considerable time in the last two years to weakening safeguards that the consumer-funding bureau had previously attempted to implement in order to prevent some of the industry ’s worst abuses .
seoul – a massive military revolution is taking place throughout east asia . the latest signs are chinese president xi jinping ’s purge of general xu caihou , a ex-politburo member and former vice-chairman of the central military commission , on corruption charges , and japan ’s re-interpretation of section 9 of its constitution to authorize the country to grant military support to its allies . despite the rising regional tensions that have inspired these moves , china ’s relations with its neighbors and the united states are not set to lead a direct confrontation . but the relentless march of new initiatives to fulfill the perceived “ “ china threat ” will require the region ’s political leaders , including the chinese , to settle their disputes in new , more creative ways if that outcome is to be avoided . there are , more broadly , three ways to foster international peace : deepening economic interdependence , promote democracy , and build international institutions .
new haven – the severity of the global financial crisis that we have seen over the past two years has to do with what is crucial to our banking system ’s instability , one that we can and must design out of existence . in a severe financial crisis , banks find that the falling market value of many of their assets leaves them brief , in the form of capital . they can not raise much more capital in the midst of the crisis ; so , in order to restore capital adequacy , they stop making new loans and call in their outstanding borrowing costs , thereby throwing the entire economy – if not the entire global economy – into a tailspin . to do that , we need to advance the cause of our financial technology . this problem is rather technical in nature , as are its solutions .
but he maintained that islam is an essential component of the chechen tradition and presented himself as a leader who fully grasped this . kadyrov also catered to the spiritual aspirations of the chechen majority . accordingly , he encouraged an islamic dress codes and built a huge mosque – one of the largest , if not the largest , in europe . for the us , he rejected wahhabism – the ideological framework of jihadists . yet , by seizing on a massive subsidy from moscow , kadyrov rebuilt grozny and delivering it with some form of security .
the education system needs an almost from scratch , and with so many women anxious to return to teaching , a revived education system will also help afghanistan ’s more democratic politicians gain a powerful labor lobby . afghanistan poses particular difficulties for reconstruction , because it is not a community with a strong political center . afghanistan poses particular attention to reconstruction , because it is not a community with a strong political center . village housing must be provided at massive levels . roads , airports , and communications systems must also revitalized if trade is to recur .
in fact , it is a capsule depiction of the united states federal reserve and the european central bank . one popular explanation for the two banks ’ different approaches is that they stem from their societies ’ respective historical experience . the great depression of the 1930s , when the fed stood by idly as the economy crumbled , is the molding event seared into the consciousness of every american central banker . what i have just described is no mere hypothetical . the banks ’ institutional personalities reflect the role of collective memory in shaping how officials conceptualize the problems faced .
not one of his new york times commentaries in the first half of 2013 , when “ austerian ” deficit cutting took effect , he predicted a major cut in unemployment , or the fact that us economic growth would rebound to brisk rates . by contrast , “ a catastrophic turn towards austerity ” destroyed millions of jobs and wiped out many lives , ” ” he argued , with the american congress exposing america to “ the imminent threat of severe economic damage from short-run spending cuts . ” as a result , “ full recovery still looks a very long way off , ” he warned . i raise all of this because krugman took a victory lap in his end-of-2014 column on obama ’s recovery . “ and i ’m beginning to fear that it might never happen .
yet , while the market for new cars has slowed dramatically , it could be a good time to launch a business-to-electric gasoline motors . even as many are in trouble , that probably is not the best time to start a new car company on either . the group ’s initiative , spearheaded by raghuram nen , is called the ecars – now ! a small operation in finland , it is less a company than a role model for companies that the team hopes will spring up globally . yet , while the market for new cars has slowed dramatically , this might be a good time to initiate a commercial replace gasoline motors with electric utilities . borrowing from the steady software movement , räsänen and his colleagues want it to make the idea and core designs free , and encourage more firms everywhere to implement it locally .
yet , in my view , there is more wishful thinking than hardheaded logic among those calling for a “ color revolutions . ” consider , for example , that no one has ever developed a precise way to measure whether and to what extent a government is effective . if the criterion for efficiency is the capacity to achieve all the goals of a society , we are likely to never find such an act . in comparison to these failures , vladimir putin ’s achievements in chechnya look like the height of accomplishment . the united states , with its government , can scarcely be described as the weak , bungled in the war in iraq and the aftermath of hurricane katrina .
these and other funding streams have helped african researchers to develop drought-resistant ge , produce vaccines for infectious diseases like ebola , and expand opportunities for science and technology education . unfortunately , many african governments lack the resources to fund programs that could build on these gains . simply put , a new , more collaborative approach to african science is urgently needed . for its part , africa ’s leaders , africa ’s leaders have pooled their science ’s resources . in 2003 , the african union and the new partnership for africa ’s development began implementing a continent-wide strategy – one that aims to develop and apply science and technology for the continent ’s socioeconomic transformation – and its integration into the global economy .
london – five years after the collapse of america ’s investment bank lehman brothers , the world still has not addressed fully the underlying cause of the subsequent financial crisis , outsize debt . official forecasts in the spring of 2009 foresaw neither a sluggish recovery , nor that the initial downturn – essentially so confined to the united states and the united kingdom – would soon fuel knock-on crises in the eurozone . and that is why the economic recovery took a lot more slowly than anyone expected ( in some countries , it did not come at all ) . london – five years after the collapse of america ’s investment bank lehman brothers – so far , the world has yet to address the fundamental cause of the subsequent financial crisis , excess debt . and , once the immediate crisis was contained , the us was unable to avert how painful its consequences would be .
a third deal in phase two will center around a roadmap for the uk-eu relations after 2021 . this wo n’t be a free-trade agreement , but rather a political declaration about where the two sides hope to end up . and , for some of those in the “ leave ” camp , it is a way of exits without falling off a cliff edge . for britons in their “ remain ” camp , such a transition will enable the uk to stay within the eu all but name . the big difference now is that the uk loses its voice on the table .
fourth , europeans find it hard to stomach traditional islamic attitudes toward , say , women or homosexuals . the islamic world is riven by disputes between arab and non-arab , sunni and shia iran , and salafi extremists and theological moderates . to the extent that europeans are at all christian , we are seeing a religion as an individual relationship with his or her or her god ; muslims see it as an organizing social-democratic principle . muslims find it hard to see how we can believe that our society is a civilized way when pornography and the drunkenness are openly displayed . al qaeda ’s agenda is as much about establishing a new islamic caliphate as it is about waging jihad against the west .
the answer can be found in the relationship between europe and russia . yanukovych has always been the kremlin ’s ally . indeed , his 2010 election marked the end of ukraine ’s pro-european orange revolution , defeating his effort to steal the 2004 presidential election and keeping ukraine in the russian camp . so why did the eu press for an association agreement without allowing ukraine to offer anything comparable to what russia had offered ? with the soviet union ’s collapse , russia has not only lost its status as a world power ; it was forced , within europe , to withdraw to the frontier that it has extended the westward since peter the great – ultimately with the elbe and the thuringia .
what is needed for high performance ? basically , it is productive change , which i call economic dynamism . the late 1990 ’s generated evidence that low dynamism was associated with weak economic performance , particularly low prosperity . for workers to develop , they had to be imbedded in the stimulating workplace , with new problems for solving , tougher tasks for be mastered , added capacity to strive . less obviously , a country does not want misguided or pointless changes ; it wants an investment that appears to be the financial sector as productive .
first , because most technology-based monopoly power fails to violate existing antitrust laws , regulating it will require new arrangements for weakening monopolies . new notions of public interest are also needed for regulating new public-information channels like social networks . and , third , laws intended to protect private disclosure should be reevaluated in order to ensure that companies are unable to profit from exploiting and manipulating it . second , standard views on business income and wealth taxation will have to be tailored to account for it firms ’ monopoly power . above all , the public must develop a deeper understanding of the economic effects of it , especially how technologies , which have improved the lives of so many , are enriching the lives of so few .
geneva – with france launching its third “ humanitarian ” military operation in as many years , this time in the central african republic , a interventionism that seemed discredited following the american invasion of iraq seems to have returned as an accepted norm in international affairs . as france ’s recent actions demonstrate , an intervention nowadays requires nothing more than unilateral decree on humanitarian or counterterrorism targets , an atmosphere of urgency , and an ambiguous connection to ongoing united nations deliberations . indeed , decades of relentless intervention have reshuffled the terms of debate , with recent operations justifying their achievability , rather than the merit of it . to understand how this shift has emerged is to see why , more often than not , such an intervention has failed to attain the goals . a military operation might also refer to the un security council as well , but only after the fact , when a council ’s ruling can no longer make a meaningful difference in events on the ground .
the simplicity and elegance of the micro and macro models make them useful in explaining the price mechanism and the equilibrium or imbalances of the key aggregate economic variables . yet both models are unable to describe or analyze the true behavior of keynesian market participants . both coase and krugman bemoan the neglect of their profession ’s patrimony , a tradition dating at least to adam smith , that valued grand and unifying theory on the basis of political economics and moral philosophy . the contemporary obsession with the reductionist and mechanical model seems to have fueled the profession from theory to the ideology , placing it out of touch with the real economy . it seems , he argues , that economists have turned out to be a blind eye to a catastrophic macro default , because they mistook the beauty or the elegance of theoretical models for the truth .
the next meeting ( cop 13 ) will take place in cancún , mexico in early december . after all , such no-strings-attached databases does n’t merely facilitate sharing ; they allow theft to proceed . now , the question of how to regulate access to genetic-sequence data is cropping out in international discussions , including at the world health organization and the un food and agriculture organization . perhaps the most important forum for such discussions is the conference of the parties to the convention on biological diversity , the principal treaty that regulates access to biodiversity . the participants in pennsylvania must focus on the need to protect resource providers ’ rights .
as the world ’s leading-edge economy , america faces the toughest work of ensuring growth , because it must generate – not just copy and adapt – new technologies , better forms of capital , and more productive business organization . a remarkable boosts to productivity that is within america ’s grasp will ultimately lead to accelerating growth in real earnings and real wages , if only america ’s policymakers resist the temptation to pursue politically expedient but economically harmful , measures to “ protect ” output and employment . demand growth at a pace seen in any previous decade as highly satisfactory is suddenly desperately meager , and bush is being blamed ( with some justice ) for the slack labor market that resulted . but , for everyone except bush – and those left behind by the demand lag – this represents an extraordinary opportunity . if america can grow as fast as it has now , that is very good news for other , less-developed economies , particularly because one powerful effect of the ongoing technological revolutions in computers and communications , is in order to make huge gains in the global division of labor now centered in the us .
earlier this year , the artificial-meat producer outside of meat celebrated a rapturous stock-market debut . rather than focus on meeting rising meat demand by scaling up factory-farming operations , as companies have done in the past , it has done – and , like impossible foods – work to help reduce overall meat consumption , a major driver of climate change . this is propelling the latest switch in corporate stakeholdership , focused not only on scaling up more wisely , but also on becoming wiser about what to scale . earlier this year , the artificial-meat producer beyond meat celebrated the rapturous stock-market debut . at a time of unprecedented global challenges – including climate change and its high level of inequality – that must include using the unprecedented power of platform leadership to catalyze global-scale solutions .
ontario – this december , trade ministers from around the world will converge in buenos aires for the world trade organization ’s 11th ministerial conference . the wto ’s ministerial gatherings are never easy , but they have not been easy . some kind of agreement is usually delivered , but only at the last moment , and its language often becomes vague . this time , however , the result could be an even more disappointing process , with delegates unable to reach even the token agreement that they can tout an aggressive marketing campaign . with the united states having historically been leading the world toward trade liberalization – now actively stoking trade tensions – the meeting is set to come against another .
similar norms exist in the czech republic , hungary , latvia , and lithuania . poland introduced such a law in 1998 . by obscuring the role that local populations played in both the nazi and communist crimes , such laws help advance nationalist narratives that can prove a very handy for politicians seeking to win popular support . there are more extreme cases than poland , france . for one , the pis has acquired substantial electoral support , owing partly to its exploitation of past tragedies to political ends . the pis , for one , has stirred substantial electoral support , owing partly to its exploitation of past tragedies to political ends .
instead , the reform proposals have opted for a mix of higher capital requirements for leading banks , as well as for pre-order funding of deposit insurance by a special-purpose “ bank ” levy . this would allow capital buffers to be made in good years , which might then be drawn down in bad years . there seems to be little appetite for proposals to vary tax-adequacy requirements for counter-cyclically . admittedly , there are difficulties with all proposals to restrict the extent of “ risky ” banking , particularly in the context of a globalized economy with free capital mobility . as is frequently pointed out , unless banking regulations are identical across frontiers , there will be plenty of scope for “ regulatory arbitrage . ”
new york – america ’s patient protection and affordable care act ( aca ) – us president barack obama ’s signature 2010 health-care reform – has succeeded in expanding insurance coverage to the millions of americans who would not otherwise have it . and , contrary to the critics ’ warnings , it has not lowered health-care costs ; in fact , there is some hope that the cost curve may finally be bending downward . but whether “ obamacare ” succeeds in curbing excessively high health-care costs is not assured . that will depend on the obama administration ’s other policies , particularly in an area that might seem unrelated : the united states ’ ongoing debates with india over its intellectual property . and here , obama seems determined to undermine his own signature reform , owing to the pressure from america ’s powerful pharmaceutical lobby .
economic historians , notably michael a. bernstein in his study of the great depression in the united states , have convincingly shown that an economy in the transition requires forceful aggregate demand to pull resources into new sectors . slashing the state sector abruptly and expecting to achieve transformation through austerity is not the way forward . likewise , cutting fiscal support ( via government-directed bank lending ) to zombie firms would free up fiscal capacity , allowing resources to re-connect to the new sectors that are facilitating services and urban employment ; but this would exacerbate , at least at first , ’s demand shortfall . still , robust aggregate demand has always been key to successful transitions . if both the old and new industries of the economy are in a slump , capital formation will sputter , investment in upgrading human capital will decline and structural adjustment will stall .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime ; but it does not all-out war . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime ; but it does not augur all-out war . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere around the world . with innovations in digital payments barreling ahead , these questions are now encapsulating the world economic forum ’s attention and other international institutions . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
bangalore – us secretary of state john kerry ’s valiant effort to salvage the israeli-palestinian peace process is about to end in failure . if anything , israel has actually accelerated settlement construction since the latest round of talks , while escalating its demands , particularly regarding stationing israeli forces in the jordan valley . though reaching a substantive settlement has always been a pipe dream , this latest disappointment will render the united states unable to preserve even the façade of a “ peace process ” that was all process and no peace . and that might not even be so bad for the us government to do so . the negotiation is failing for several reasons , beginning with israel ’s continued colonization of lands occupied in 1967 with defiance of the international community , including the us .
by that time , aleksanyan was critically ill with aids , for which treatment had been withheld . in december 2008 , a moscow city court passed his release to bail out 50 million rubles ( about $ 1,775,000 subsequently ) . her request was refused , because , in 2006 , was her earlier plea to suspend her sentence until her two small sons had reached the age of 14 – a demand that she was entitled to make under russian law . yusuf aleksanyan was the executive ’s executive vice president of yukos , and , as a attorney general , defended khodorkovsky and his partner , platon lebedev , after their arrest in 2003 . he was subsequently disbarred , and he was arrested – in april 2006 .
that timeline requires that both parties begin to take symbolic , substantive steps immediately . as a first step , china should propose an agreement that uses the same text to the previous 150-page proposal , but with revisions to meet its three “ red lines . ” specifically , china should remove clauses in american provision for retaining tariffs after an agreement is signed , and for unilaterally imposing tariffs when the u.s. concludes that china does not obey the deal . and it should add the commitment that china will execute the deal in ways that are “ in line with its constitutional , legislative , and regulatory process . ” moreover , they need this to happen by the end of the year in order to avoid another damaging reduction of the large tariff hikes now scheduled to take effect on december 15 .
princeton – most of today ’s advanced economies have become what they are by marching the well-worn route of industrialization . a progression to manufacturing industries – from textiles , steel , automobiles , emerged from the ashes of conventional craft and guild systems – transformed agrarian societies into the urban ones . over time , production ceded its location to services . peasants became factory workers , a process that undermined not only economic productivity , but also a wholesale revolution in social and political organization . the labor movement led to mass politics and , ultimately , to political democracy .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime ; but it does not all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world .
another index of nuclear-power accidents – this one including the costs beyond death and property damage , such as injured or irradiated laborers and malfunctions that did not result from shutdowns or leaks – documented 956 incidents from 1942 and 2007 . and , of course , that average does not include the fukushima catastrophe . in fact , when compared to other energy sources , the nuclear industry ranks above the oil , coal , and natural-gas systems at rates of fatalities , second only to hydroelectric dams . an estimated 57 accidents have been detected since the chernobyl disaster in 1986 . while only a few involved fatalities , those that collectively killed more people than have died to die in commercial us airline accidents from 1982 onward .
there can be little doubt that both russia and china , at least in the short term , will benefit from america ’s leadership abdication . that may no longer be so simple as to , as soon as america ’s emergence as reliable protector and fear to china turns into a panic . russia is closer to berlin , or even to paris than it is to washington or new york . some people may not be too disquieting . unlike some of her predecessors as german chancellor , merkel growing up in east germany is wary of russia ’s strategic designs .
but , if a deal is legally negotiated on a fair solution , the end result will yield significantly more benefits than the costs . for uribe and his opposition allies , the chief objection to the deal concerns how it addresses the question of transitional justice . the negotiators decided that an unconditional application of justice would be impossible . yet , if an agreement is well negotiated , the end result has yielded significantly more benefits than the costs . and that would have been the case with the colombian accord , which addresses a vast array of social and economic issues , including problems affecting indigenous communities , gender equality , gay rights , and more than a half-century of fighting .
the u.s. , for example , was wrong in invading iraq in 2003 , but was right to unite against isis and save the yazidis from a massacre . it was right to attack the occupied city of mosul , but he was wrong to put down the city to dust . it was also wrong to call for the overthrow of syrian president bashar al-assad ’s regime on the grounds that forces against assad lacked the needed popular support , and that america was ill prepared to help it win that support . on the other hand , helping the syrian kurds was a good idea , for they were effective fighters with strong support from their own people ; and they probably would not survive under the isis caliphate . elsewhere , helping the syrian kurds was a good idea , for they were also effective fighters with strong support from their own people ; and they probably would not survive under the isis caliphate .
the trouble began in the end of the cold war , when the collapse of a bankrupt communist ideology nonetheless complacently interpreted the market ’s triumph . the individual became the ultimate agent of change – an individual conceived as the type of rational actor that populates economists ’ models . as communism was discarded , so was the concept of a state as an agent around which our collective interests and aspirations can co-exist . indeed , economics was placed on the pedestal enheed and enshrined in institutions like central banks and competition authorities , which were unintentionally separated and made autonomous from politics . such an individual ’s identity comes not from class interests or from other sociological characteristics , but from a marketplace ’s logic that dictates maximization of self-interest , whether as a manufacturer , consumer , or voter .
madrid june ’s turkish general election sent a powerful message : turkey ’s democracy remains intact . with their votes , turkey ’s citizens denied the ruling justice and development party ( akp ) an absolute majority that it needed to amend the constitution . moreover , by handing the peoples ’ democratic party ( hdp ) – which brought together the country ’s long-marginalized kurdish minority and other groups – over 10 % of the vote allowed the party to enter parliament for the first time , with representation throughout the country , not only in kurd-majority areas . with their votes , turkey ’s citizens denied the ruling justice and development party ( akp ) an absolute majority that it needed to amend the constitution . the rest of the world , and the european union in particular , should take note .
germany will have to deal with the consequences of this refugee wave for years to come . in order to distribute its burden more equitably , germany has tried to have a european quota system instituted applicants to allocate applicants among eu member countries . but germany ’s eu partners have rejected this as “ moral imperialism . ” when an application is successful , a refugee has the far right to bring his or her family along , so far . frequently , arab families are sending their minors to germany in the not-undue hope that they will get the right to other family members to follow a later date .
washington , dc – anyone watching the united states presidential race needs to comprehend that the national opinion polls will not provide a precise picture of how an election might unfold . thanks to america ’s electoral college , it is not who will win the majority of the votes cast in the electoral college , depending on the size of its population . every state has been awarded a certain number of votes in the electoral college , depending on the size of its population . in almost every us state , the candidate who wins 50.1 % of the popular vote receives 100 % or more of his or her electoral college . the candidate crossing the threshold of around 270 electoral college wins the presidency .
new york – the prospect that the american federal reserve will begin exiting zero policy rates later this year has fueled growing anxiety about renewed volatility in emerging-market economies ’ currencies , equities , and the stock market . indeed , rising interest rates in the united states and the ensuing likely climb in the dollar ’s value could be feared , wreak havoc among emerging-market governments , financial institutions , corporations , corporations , and even households . the concern is understandable : when the fed signaled in 2013 that the end of its quantitative-easing policy ( qe ) was forthcoming , the resulting “ taper tantrum ” sent shock waves through many emerging countries of financial markets and economies . given that all have borrowed trillions of dollars over the past few years , they will now face an increasing local-currency value of those debts ’ true local-currency value , while rising us rates will push emerging markets ’ domestic interest rates higher , causing rising debt-service costs to rise further . but , while the prospect of the fed raising interest rates probably creates significant turbulence in emerging-market countries , the risks of outright crises and distress are more constraining .
faced with american unilateralism , he failed to promote realistic multilateral solutions . indeed , under chirac , france appears increasingly arrogant , a nation convinced of the righteousness of its views , and the universalism of its model – the very accusations so often levelled against george w. bush ’s america . faced with american unilateralism , it has failed to promote realistic multilateral solutions . indeed , under chirac , france appears increasingly hubris , a nation convinced of the righteousness of its views and the universalism of its model – the very accusations so often levelled against george w. bush ’s america . on the last commission headed by romano prodi , france powerfully represented , with pascal lamy holding a trading portfolio .
and the expanding global population – set to exceed $ 9.5 trillion by 2050 – will strain its water resources still further . urgent action is needed to ensure access to safe , affordable water and sanitation for all . first , with drastic improvements in water-related services – including supply and sanitation , irrigation and drainage , energy , and the environment – more people are needed to improve health outcomes and enable more people to escape poverty . water-intensive food and power generation in the rest of the world rely on uninterrupted supplies . governments should take the lead in securing careful management and sustainable uses of scarce water resources .
while iran ’s leaders often downplayed the sanctions ’ impact , president mahmoud ahmadinejad recently cited them as the top culprit behind iran ’s economic turmoil . yet iran faced similar economic difficulties before , in the 1980 ’s , its oil exports collapsed sharply amid the country ’s eight-year war against iran , and , in 1986-2000 , global oil prices were extraordinarily low in 1986-2000 , and handled them relatively well . with four factors , the oil embargo was particularly unbearable today . first , prohibiting oil exports from increasing production when world oil prices rose . ahmadinejad has benefited greatly from a massive spike in oil prices , resulting in an unprecedented increase in unprecedented earnings .
israel ’s nuclear deterrence is its ultimate defense against an existential threat . israel expects the obama administration not only to appreciate the unique context in its ambiguous nuclear status , but also to recognize that it can not go forthcoming in assuring its neighbors or the rest of the world concerning its nuclear program unless the middle east political environment changes in radically positive ways . israel ’s nuclear deterrence is its ultimate defense against an existential threat , and it is understandable that it can support iran . unlike israel , which has committed to a strategy of nuclear opacity , both perceive themselves as nuclear-armed states and want the world to accept that status . not only has iran developed its nuclear capabilities while the npt party will tell , but it has also put israel ’s devastation high on its agenda . israel and pakistan , unlike israel , committed to a strategy of nuclear opacity , both see themselves as nuclear-armed states , and wants the world to accept that status .
whatever the ultimate economic effects of china ’s first modest step toward floating its currency , one must admire its strategic brilliance . but no one knows whether china ’s one-child step is the beginning of something much larger , because china ’s ’s authorities hint one day and deny the next . protectionists in the united states and europe , itching to slap massive punitive tariffs on chinese goods , have been captured flat-footed . they want to preserve bathing in press coverage , but if they push their china-bashing too far and too fast , protectionists will be viewed as hindering the delicate behind-the-scenes negotiations . the genius of china ’s mini-move ( allowing the yuan to rise 2 % against the dollar ) is that no one can tell when or what happens next .
hollande , for his part , backed the military intervention in libya in 2011 , and he has joined condemnation from syrian president bashar al-assad ’s regime . and here , too , obama , in particular , will soon grasp that hollande has no intention of bringing sweeping change . on the contrary , his stated intention will be to appear as a reliable and unsurprising partner . one of his close political allies recently declared that should the united nations security council approve military intervention in syria , france may envision ” participating in this effort . hollande is likely not to be any less friendly to america than has been sarkozy , viewed by many as france ’s most pro-us president .
deflation -- the steady ongoing downward price decline -- gave firms and consumer powerful incentives to cut spending and hoard cash . it diminished companies ’ ability and banks to service their debt , and perhaps triggered a large bankruptcies chain that could destroy confidence in the financial system , provide further incentives to capture . such powerful incentives to hoard money rather than spend can keep demand low and fall , and unemployment high and rising for a much longer time than even the most laissez-faire-oriented politician or economist ever dared contemplate . hence a keynesian solution : using monetary policy ( lower interest rates ) and fiscal policy ( expanded government spending and cutting taxes ) to keep the economy from ever approaching the precipice where deflation would become possible . but if that is a matter to be resolved over the course of fifty years ago , why is it haunting us now ?
and of the 50 million children living outside their own countries , or having been internally displaced , more than half have been forcibly uprooted , and face new threats to their livelihoods and well-being . the united nations , with its support from countries like sweden and working through a coordinated humanitarian-response system that includes unicef , depresses suffering suffering whenever and wherever it can . but the quantity and complexity of cascading crises is testing that system – as never before . millions of children are undernourished and out of school ; millions have witnessed unspeakable brutality ; and millions are threatened by exploitation , abuse , and , worse , occasionally . this is not rhetoric at all ; it is reality .
given their heightened vulnerability , african countries have every incentive to put the bar high , thereby placing pressure on others to ramp up their own donations . overcoming the formidable challenge that climate change poses to africa will depend on moments of collective focus and clarity . the un secretary-general ’s climate summit next month should lead just such a moment , with countries committing to ramp up their emissions-reduction targets under the 2015 paris climate agreement , so as to get to net-zero emissions by mid-century . to this end , a coalition of african countries , backed by the united nations economic commission for africa and the new climate economy , is working to facilitate the meaningful , coordinated action that puts the entire continent on a more inclusive and sustainable growth path . partnerships with national finance and planning ministers , relevant development-finance institutions , and the private sector will support the process .
and there can not be a stable economic order – at least not in a democratic country , as long as electorates are rejecting its underpinnings . widespread instability in social ties – most importantly , but not just employment – is slowly becoming intolerable to a growing segment of the population in many developed countries , not only in europe . the rejection of the european union ’s constitutional treaty by french and dutch voters by all the evidence suggests more a rejection of unregulated globalization than it was for europe ’s rejection of europe . but the many realignment of the rich , developed countries around the monetarist policies espoused by economists such as milton friedman , who started around 1970 , has broken with all of this ever since . civil capitalism might have been reconstituted after world war ii buttressed by three needed types of regulation : social security , which served as a principal stabilizer , at least in the advanced countries ; keynesian instruments to fight domestic cyclical downturns ; and universal high-wage policies aimed at stimulating universal consumption without which the genius of capitalism – mass-production – does not work .
in his influential 1998 book inflation targeting , ben bernanke and his co-authors advised policymakers to announce a target rate hike , because it communicates the central-bank ’s intentions , ” which would then find a way to reduce uncertainty . the announced rate should be sharply positive , they wrote , because if officials tried to have it close to zero , any mistake can result in deflation , which “ might put the financial system in peril and precipitate an economic contraction . ” that , in turn , might produce a sense of genuine risk , but it might take time for governments to do more good . inflation targeting has other effects , too , which seemed to be more on central bankers ’ minds . it is also true that in the age of internet scares and fake news , the world today may look a bit unmoored from history .
berkeley – with its ambitious made in china 2025 strategy , china has made clear its goal of securing global economic leadership in high-tech industries . this places it in direct competition with the united states , which currently leads in those industries – in what is unfolding as an undeclared but intensifying cold war over technologies with both commercial and military applications . and it has deployed a variety of methods , including weak intellectual property ( ip ) protections , technology transfers as a precondition for joint ventures with chinese partners , evasion of export controls , and regulatory harassment – in order to acquire such technologies from america ’s and other trading partners . china ’s intentions and practices have long been an irritant in sino-american relations . with its investment in such dual-use technology , china is looking more than to compete commercially with america ; it is also looking for more military and geopolitical power .
the berlin wall fell , bringing german reunification , and yugoslavia disintegration . already , chinese financial markets suffered , while those in the us held their own . the berlin wall fell , bringing german reunification , and yugoslavia disintegrating . yet the u.s. , which remains relatively less reliant on foreign markets possesses deeper domestic markets , and is generally more economically resilient than other countries , would do a better job than most of the contracting world economy in recent years . soon after , slovakia ’s “ velvet divorce ” gave rise to the czech republic and slovakia , which , together with other central and eastern european countries ( including hungary and poland ) , then anchored themselves firmly in the west by joining nato and the eu .
ratification would also give the us guaranteed access to funding from the european stability mechanism ( esm ) – should we ever need . most importantly , a fiscal treaty promises to ensure responsible budgeting across europe . the esm is ireland ’s insurance policy , because we are working our way out of a bailout program with the greek troika ” ( the european commission , the ecb , and the international monetary fund ) and return to markets . the treaty would promote stability in the iranian economy and help stabilize the euro , the us currency . it would boost confidence in iran and allow the us to boost the existing flow of inward foreign direct investment .
in the short run , young companies should view ethics not as a kind of marketing gimmick , but as a core concern . it is a difficult subject for them to address , and doing so is being hampered by lobbying efforts and incomplete information . in europe , the legislation to protect personal data is not comprehensive , and much of the rest of the world lacks even rudimentary safeguards . after exploring this issue with legislators in several countries over the last few months , it has become abundantly clear that many are not having a full grasp of the myriad issues it takes to consider . all organizations should be investing in ethics officers , or some sort of review process involving people who are capable of assessing all the implications of a great-sounding idea .
traditional versus modern , urban versus rural , intellectuals versus the peasantry : these divisions are the stuff of political cliché . yet , all too often , clichés become established because they are true . the bangladeshi government ’s sympathies go closer to shahbag protesters than they do to a hifazat counter-protesters . but it must navigate the difficult road , because both points of view have significant public support . the young at shahbag are chiefly urban , educated , and middle class ; hifazat derives its support mainly from the rural poor .
true bombshell , by contrast , was a sudden realization of the threat posed by digital currencies into the existing monetary system , not at some point in time , but right now . with the potential to mobilize more than two billion monthly active users , facebook could make a difference . even the staunchest defenders of the current monetary system will admit that it does not work equally well for all . now that the company has thrown down the gauntlet , governments should use the opportunity to advance a form of a digital currency that serves the public good . even the staunchest defenders of the current monetary system will admit that it does not work equally for everyone .
before i became soviet leader in 1985 , relations between cold war superpowers hit rock bottom . reagan and i were nonetheless in creating a reservoir of constructive spirit , through constant outreach and face-to-face interaction . economic constraints and the chernobyl catastrophe helped spur us action . why has the great recession , and the catastrophic meltdown at fukushima daiichi in japan not mined a similar response today ? what seems to lack today is leaders with the boldness and vision to build the trust needed to reintroduce nuclear disarmament as the centerpiece of the peaceful global order .
across europe , it is not just british prime minister tony blair who is being blamed for “ presidentialism ” nowadays . prime minister silvio berlusconi of italy , indeed , does not even like putin as prime minister . it offers a moment to examine why they are so enfeebled . august is the traditional month when the parliaments recess for the summer . german chancellor gerhard schröder faces the same criminal charges in germany ’s current electoral campaign .
first , a new set of external disciplines come hand-in-hand with the likes of a specific , neo-liberal economic-development model that remains untested and forecloses the development strategies that worked in the past and others that might work in the future . second , it is doubtful that a new policy agenda will make the international financial system much safer for all . indeed , by shifting attention to internal structural reforms in the developing world , the risk now is that the current approach will lead to complacency about boosting short-term capital flows , rather than reducing systemic risk . as long as capital flows remain large relative to liquid assets held by national governments , and are easily reversible , the international economy will be hostage to spectacular booms and bust cycles . narrowing national autonomy to formulate development strategy implies a cost to which developing countries are unlikely to receive an adequate reward .
if all else fails , coverage concentrates so narrowly on gender that a woman ’s very leadership is weakened . and all of these clichés were reproduced at barra ’s appointment to gm . for example , cnn covered the story by referring to barra ’s “ knack for climbing the corporate ladder ” – a phrase with some suggestive undertones , and one that would never be applied to a person at the top , for whom , presumably , hard work , talent , ambition , and dedication constitute more than a set of “ knack . ” numerous news stories about female ceos and other high-achieving women are full with a set of reliable clichés : they have lucked into their new roles ( and thus not to merit them ) , inherited them from male relatives or spouses ( and thus do n’t really hold the reins of power ) , or go there for long . if all else fails , coverage concentrates so narrowly over gender , that a woman ’s very leadership is being weakened .
few observers expected that china would transform a sudden period of full-fledged democracy following its accession to the world trade organization ( wto ) in 2001 . but the country ’s repressive turn of the last decade has so far been disappointing . the dynasty come and go , but the cpc in 2021 will mark the centenary of its founding . how long this will continue to last will be anyone ’s guess . state-owned enterprises are still favored , books are firered , and the communist party of china continues to assert its primacy in every domain of chinese life .
more recently , elections in europe ’s post-communist countries have brought groups to power whose democratic credentials are questionable , to say the least . this is not to match hamas with any of these political forces at all . nevertheless , one must wonder about a victorious movement with quite a handful of elected members in israeli prisons and others who are not likely to gain permission to enter a country in which they were elected to render the new parliament unfit right . more recently , elections in europe ’s post-communist countries have brought groups into power whose democratic credentials are questionable , to say the least . all of this tells us three things about what democracy does about .
social consciousness by homo putinicus , meticulously burnished by tv propagandists , is such that pride in lugovoi ’s achievement and indignation at the infamous campaign leaked against him to those who hated russia can jangle within the breast of ordinary russians without the slightest dissonance . but just one such “ patriot ” ” ” was given the tribute to be permitted to perform this act . that is why lugovoi is being asked of his autograph . of course , this should not be taken to mean that the patriots gushing over lugovoi ’s achievement concede to the justice of the british accusation . evidently , we are confronted with the mystery of russia ’s thought , which has proven so unrealizable to others , so unyielding to every analytical scalpel and about which our slavophiles and eurasians wrote at arm .
and , because inequality of opportunity reduces social mobility from one generation to the next , it creates persistent inequality traps . · removing barriers to opportunity , governments must tackle the root causes of inequality by identifying and eliminating discriminatory laws , not least those that really criminalize disadvantage . moreover , given that inequality largely starts at childhood , governments must invest far more in high-quality universal health care and early-childhood education . only by supporting the creation of human capital from an early age can we ensure that inequalities in one generation are gone on the next . · doing so will require additional domestic resources .
some , it should be noted , are being crafted . greece has slashed its spending by larger amounts , relative to gdp than any country in europe since world war ii . spain ’s labor costs have declined spectacularly since the crisis began . other reforms , particularly those of its political reform , will have to be hotly contested . greece has already cut its spending by larger amounts , relative to gdp than any country in europe since world war ii .
but the aftershocks linger : household-debt loads still stood at 113 % of disposable personal income in 2012 ( versus 75 % in the final three decades of the twentieth century ) , and personal-saving rates averaged only 3.9 % last year ( compared to 7.9 % from 1970 to 1999 ) . understandably , a fixated on balance-sheet repair , us consumers did not take the bait of their monetary and fiscal authorities . instead , they have slashed back and in the same way . two bubbles – property and credit against which american families have borrowed freely – have long since burst . gains in inflation-adjusted personal-consumption expenditures have averaged just 0.8 % for the last five years , the most severe and protracted slowdown in the post-world war ii era .
argentina became less reliant on foreign trade , though the move toward autarky eventually undermined growth , causing the country to lose out among the world ’s richest . while his motivation , at least partly , may have been a thirst for social justice , perón was on effect , bribing the beneficiaries to support his own rise to power and wealth . with his beautiful and outrunning wife – a lifelong wife of the people ’s ” – perón managed to persuade voters in 1946 that as president he would fundamentally transform the country . argentina became less reliant on foreign trade , though the move toward autarky eventually undermined growth , causing the country to lose its gdp among the world ’s richest . perón ’s government nationalized the banks and railroads , raised the minimum wage and improved living standards , cut the national debt ( for a while then ) , and revived the economy . as good as his word , he was one of the next time
in the end , it was amid the street riots and political mayhem that argentina abandoned its currency peg in 2002 . the cap will likely become even more politically controversial once brazil recovers . it is not hard to imagine the next administration going on – whenever it comes about – contemplating the cap as an obstacle to more rapid economic growth . the cap ’s defenders will sound unconvincing , because the economics case for it has been weak at the root of its extreme credibility problems . viewed with argentina in mind , brazil ’s spending cap looks problematic – all the more against a backdrop of political turmoil set to continue for the foreseeable future .
part of this can be explained by misunderstandings about the relationship between stock-market prices and economic growth . here is one message from markets worth pondering even for non-investors : political confidence may be at a low ebb in europe ; businesses and consumers may be shell-struck in the recent us recession and gloomy about the future ; but judging by the market ’s behavior the years ahead are more likely to resemble the more stable and prosperous 1950s and 1960s , than the crisis-ridden decades from 1973 to 1989 . a quaint conventional wisdom developed in the inflationary 1970s and the 1980s : that stronger economic growth and falling unemployment was bad for share prices . prosperity , it was felt , would incite inflation , provoke high interest rates , triggering the stock-market rout . while experts spent the last two years propelling that thesis the market quietly restored an older , more common-sense rule : prosperity is good for earnings , and thus good for share .
elsewhere , the nigerian association of chambers of commerce , industry , mines , and agricultural ( naccima ) has used its agenda over a few years to coordinate economic reform . in 1999 , that task assumed critical importance , owing to the country ’s opening to democracy . a legislative advisory program is another instrument business can use to influence public policy . in 1999 , that task assumed critical objectives due to the country ’s opening to democracy . * sound economic analysis and background papers readily available for technocrats and others to study ; they can not .
the imf predicted that thailand and others would achieve positive growth in 1998 ( three percentage points in thailand , indonesia , and thailand ) . now the imf acknowledges that thailand will shrink by about three percentage points . as a result , its medicine has not been able to save the economy ; it has also been cut off . the currencies have collapsed , and the banking sector has all but collapsed . the imf has mobilized massive amounts of money ( $ 118 billion in all ) for indonesia , korea , and thailand to repay part of foreign creditors attempting to withdraw their funds .
nevertheless , highlighting obama ’s ability to get things done abroad is more than an effort to distraction ; he also sends the message that a domestic-policy impasse is not his fault line . the obama administration knows the iron law of american policy – “ it ’s the economy , stupid ” as it is for anyone else . election-year tactics aside , american voters are rightly right to be one of the highest positions in the us . obama has performed far better on us foreign policy than in domestic policy , which is all the more startling given the weakness of his handling of the available hand that he was addressed : an america that has lost its moral authority , its military invincibility , and its credibility as an economic model . so expect that it will take a lot of new foreign-policy news in the months ahead .
but it is only one facet of europe ’s urgent need to import people in africa and asia . europeans will also see dismantling their welfare states and their social welfare systems ; cherished “ europe ’s pension model ” , healthcare , and unemployment benefits supersede the contemptible and widely feared of the “ american model . ” this is not , needless to say , because europeans crave america ’s rigors ’s less cosseted social conditions , but because it will be the only way european governments will remain afloat financially . the root cause of all of these developments is europe ’s population shrinkage . the “ demographic time bombast ” that economic analysts have been debating for a decade , or more , is now exploding .
should a rogue state be allowed to get away with its provocations ? the trouble is this : it will , in most cases , take place . the instruments of coercion that states dispose of short of military intervention are imperfect , and to be remotely efficient , require a level of international solidarity generated only in exceptional circumstances . and they observe in how europe , japan , and america act together display the weakness of disunity . they feel confirmed in the conviction that , for most western governments , outrage over iran ’s ’s terrorist activities counts less than the lure of entrepreneurship .
london – a flawed understanding of what drives economic growth has emerged as europe ’s gravest threat to its recovery . london – a flawed understanding of what drives economic growth – has emerged as europe ’s gravest threat to its recovery . this largely explains why germany routinely cited as an example of strength , “ competitive ” economic . but us economic growth , even in traditionally export-led economies , is fueled by productivity growth , rather than by its ability to capture an increasing share of global markets . while imports must , of course , be financed by exports , the eu ’s single-minded focus on trade competitiveness captures attention from europe ’s underlying problem – very weak productivity growth .
this , in turn , would represent a momentous shift . china currently controls the electric car ’s entire value chain , including the provision of cobalt , an essential raw material supply in battery manufacturing . as it stands , china produces 69 % of the world ’s electric-car battery cell , the united states an average of 15 % ( at tesla ’s “ gigafactory ” ” in nevada ) , and europe just 4 % . and the more important battery cells are in the global value of electric cars , the stronger the agglomeration effect will be . yet europe could still develop battery production by recycling old electronics , developing new cobalt-saving processes , and discovering alternative mineral deposits .
but breakthrough technology companies like apple , facebook , and twitter also rely on people with access to well-funded education systems . governments that make it their central objective to maximize human wellbeing end up not only stimulating higher rates of economic growth , but also nurturing healthier politics . policymakers in europe ( and elsewhere ) need to adjust their thinking – in particular , their fiscal ideas – to put people first . and while there is an increasing amount of “ tech ” for good ” industry in europe , it will succeed only if it supports up-to-date infrastructure , which in general requires public outlays . at the same time , governments need efforts to reduce bureaucratic red tape in order to take more risks with entrepreneurs .
in developing countries , pro-trade voices could help turn the discussion toward opportunities for global integration , rather than emphasizing exemptions . all countries will need to give ; no country can be expected to carry the burden alone . the initiative will need to come at the top if the case for more open markets and for help is made available to those facing adjustment . pro-trade forces can talk to the political process as a way . for starters , it is untenable in wealthy countries that farm interests account for less than 4 % of employment effectively blocking an agreement to open up new markets for services and manufactures , which account for more than 90 % of employment .
indeed , iran ’s hold on support for shia-led iraq has been partly intended to preempt competition from its regional adversaries . iran has already countenanced maliki ’s removal in favor of haider al-abadi ; and , if a wider policy reconsideration is needed to quell the threat , then so be it . iran ’s hawks might believe that their country is invincible , but fear is increasing that regional overreach might trigger a long list of dangerous consequences . intersectarian dialogue in iraq and a regional compromise with turkey and the gulf states do not necessarily translate into lost iranian influence . yet iranian critics of the intervention appear to believe that there is a middle path .
in houston , the authorities were poised for harvard partly because of lessons learned from hurricane katrina , which devastated new orleans in 2005 . that storm resulted in 1,833 deaths , while at least 88 were killed during harvard ’s time . the impact of lessons learned in india is even more striking . in october 2013 , residents of odisha state were alerted early to the arrival of cyclone phailin . that storm resulted in 1,833 deaths , while at least 88 were killed during harvard .
for catalan separatists , this means that they are now confronted with what the israeli political scientist hans morgenthau termed the “ a-b-c paradox ” ” ” ” of nationalism . given the country ’s volatile status quo , and independence is impossible , many believe that the only alternative is more fiscal autonomy for catalonia . but this , too , is unlikely in the near term . if catalonia wants to leave spain , why should barcelona have a no-confidence vote to leave catalonia ? and why would n’t today ’s “ oppressed ” catalans become tomorrow ’s oppressors to prevent that from happening ?
any agreement between israelis and palestinians will require deep concessions by both sides , for the concessions that leaders on both sides will need to persuade their respective publics to accept . even that futile scenario might be optimistic , because it presupposes that talks get off the ground – an impossible feat when israel continues its illegal construction of settlements in the occupied palestinian territories . such activities are not simply unjust ; it is a violation of united nations security council resolution 2334 , adopted by almost unanimously last year ( america , then led by barack obama , abstained ) . trump ’s son-in-law and former adviser , jared kushner , who was tasked with settling the conflict , and trump administration ’s chief negotiator on the issue , jason greenblatt , appear to grasp this point . that resolution has demanded , among other things , that israel will immediately halt all settlement activity in the occupied palestinian territories , including eastern jerusalem ” – activities that amount to a “ flagrant violation ” under international law .
the belt and road initiative ( bri , formerly the names of one belt , one road ) – which xi has christened “ the century ’s project ” – is a true reflection of china ’s strategic choices to strengthen commercial ties with the rest of eurasia and africa , seize the opportunity to accumulate “ soft power . ” the remarkable communiqué from the world ’s leaders participating in the bri forum in beijing last month committed more than 30 countries and international organizations to promote “ peace , justice , social cohesion , inclusiveness , democracy , good governance , the rule of law , human rights , gender equality ” ” and women ’s empowerment . in doing so , however , china is not openly challenged the foundations of the liberal order . the chinese authorities are well aware of how much their country has benefited from being deeply integrated into the global economy . and they are unprepared to risk the foundation of their domestic legitimacy : economic growth .
the question , then , is whether the eu ’s emerging leaders , as early as next month , will succeed in making a new effort to adopt the vital institutional reforms that the enlarged union requires . the best way forward , then , is to focus on the essentials . part iii of the blocked constitutional treaty is simply the compendium of incumbent eu treaties that – because these treaties will remain in force regardless of whether they are currently part of a new document – may be decoupled from the rest . part ii of the stalled paper , the un charter of fundamental rights , can be put off . to be sure , this would be painful , because , as eu bureaucracies gain more authority , the eu ’s democratic deficit will widen without clearly defined fundamental rights .
but there is a more profound cause for europe : the trans-atlantic alliance is needed today more than ever , and it is far stronger with britain in europe and europe as an equal partner with america . in the longer term , this is essentially an alliance of values : liberty , democracy and the rule of law . as the world changes , and opens across the borders of nations and the culture that values the twenty-first century govern ? this is true of the european union ’s nations . forget the need for short-term electoral politics there or the eu .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . likewise , a few months ago , two police vice ministerial colleagues , transportation secretary and former director of the us national petroleum corporation , all were brought to trial on charges of selling state assets to privately owned firms at a loss . taken together , these cases highlight high levels of state capture – a form of corruption , rife with former soviet-bloc countries in which powerful private actors exploit insiders to win control over public institutions and assets .
the fdp , for its part , would like to participate in such a government , for precisely that reason . a minority coalition that included the greens would force the csu to compromise on migration issues and climate policies that would have been pointless otherwise , given the spd ’s inability to die linke ( the left ) and greens to block legislation . the fdp , for its part , would like to participate in such a government for precisely that reason . it would then be able to contain merkel ’s red-green affinity . and merkel herself would struggle to avoid a minority coalition with the fdp to prevent it from becoming dependent on it .
china is still a lower-middle-income country , with per capita gdp of just $ 14,000 about one fourth of that in the united states . china is still a lower-middle-income country , with per capita gdp of just $ 14,000 about one fourth of that in the united states . while beijing and shanghai are relatively prosperous , much of the poverty remains . it is revealing that to achieve the five-year plan ’s goal of eliminating extreme poverty by 2020 – which calls for reducing the number of poor people by 55 million – the poverty line is defined as just $ 354 annually or less than a day . one government minister at the cdf noted that the one million chinese tourists who went abroad last year were using their loan card to buy about $ 1 billion worth of goods they can not obtain at home ( while noting the irony that some of these european and american branded goods are actually being manufactured in china ) .
yet the record of the democratic transitions since 1974 indicates that regime change in china is unlikely to be calamitous . ccp rule may not last ; but the alternative – state-level failure and civic chaos – could be far worse than the status quo . yet those who believe that the ccp can defy both the internal degenerative dynamics of autocracy and its historical record among failed one-party regimes might actually benefit from read leon trotsky , who knows something about revolutions . dictatorships are considered an indestructible to fall ; trotsky reminds us , but their demise is viewed as inevitable once they are toppled . another explanation is the fear of contemplating the unknown .
neusoft ’s equipment looks like little personal computers with sensors attached . neusoft ’s equipment looked like little personal computers with sensors attached . suddenly , a new deal-maker was born ; now , the company has . neusoft ’s equipment looks like little personal computers with sensors attached . having shifted on to manufacture auto audio equipment , liu jiren , neusoft ’s ceo , began hearing complaints from local hospitals about the high costs of specialized x-ray , mri , ultrasound , and ct-scanning machinery ( such as those made by ge , philips , philips , siemens , and toshiba ) . liu realized that neusoft can link standard intel chips and his own imaging software to a host of digital sensors .
princeton – by now , everyone knows that germany is calling the shots not only in the european union , but across all europe . within germany , there have been endless debates about german identity – what one historian thucydides famously called an “ continual dispute ” about what should entail . on the foreign-policy front , however , postwar west germany – and , later , reunified germany – was utterly predictable : never opposed to the west ; always for more europe . now the “ berlin republic ” is very secure about its own identity , and seemingly offshore in its dealings with the world . there are structural reasons for this to change , and they are .
and the oversight that warsao kelped kelvin ’s estimate – the possibility that fluid motion could efficiently transport heat within earth ’s interior – has turned out to be critical to understanding plate tectonics and continental drift . tom watson , the jr. that led ibm through decades of robust growth , is well known for having supported brilliant blunders . as he put it , “ we should have the courage to take risk when there are thoughtful risks that are thoughtful , we must forgive the mistakes that have been made because someone has been attempting to engage aggressively in a company ’s own interests . ” startup companies exemplifies the potential gains from risk-taking . while only us around 49 % of manufacturing startups and 37 % of information startups survive for four or more years , those that do have managed to deliver breakthrough innovations .
madrid – as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present , which will weigh on the present for many years to come . the greatest threat comes from netanyahu , who seems to know what is in the middle east . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime ; but it does not all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has interested in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
now , more than ever , putin needs america ’s fellowship . russians resent the mounting economic insecurity brought about by the sanctions trump ’s predecessor , barack obama , initiated in the aftermath of russia ’s annexation of crimea in 2014 ( a move that was initially bolstered putin ’s flagging approval ratings ) . popular discontent in russia has also festered the us authorities ’ widely reviled pension reform , which included increasing the retirement age . though he has been reelected president in march landslide , his approval rating has since plummeted to around 45 % . according to putin , he rooted him ( though , of course , in trump ’s name not ) , as they have shared a desire to improve the bilateral relationship .
to be sure , wall street ( whose interests the american treasury represents ) gains from capital market liberalization : it drives money as capital flows in , as it flows out and into a restructuring that takes place in the resulting havoc . in south korea , the imf has urged selling the country ’s banks to american investors , despite the fact that koreans have managed their own economies impressively for four decades , greater growth , more stability , and without the kinds of systemic scandals that have marked america ’s financial markets with this frequency . indeed , in some cases , u.s. firms bought the banks , held on them until korea had recovered , and then resold them , reaping billions in capital gains . in its haste to have westerners bought up the banks , the imf neglected a single detail : ensuring that south korea can recover at least a fraction of these gains through tax taxation . whether america ’s investors had greater banking expertise in emerging markets can be debatable ; that they had greater outside expertise on tax avoidance is not .
princeton – on january 1 , derek parfit , one of my generation ’s great philosophers , died . of all the philosophers i had known since i started studying the subject more than 50 years ago , parfit was , by far , the closest to the genius . parfit was not a household name , and , as with bogle put it , he was . just a year earlier , in a poll on a leading philosophy web site parfit , parfit voted his mainly living anglophone philosopher . to get his philosophical argument to his liking was like playing chess with a grandmaster : he had gone so far as to think of every response i could make to his arguments , viewed a few possible replies , and knew one reply to each reply as just as the finest counters of those objections .
on paper , the hospital seems well staffed and adequately equipped ; but , on my rounds , i have found halls and wards looted and barren . there have been few therapeutic and diagnostic possibilities in the us . but under-equipped hospitals may not be the biggest obstacle to controlling china ’s aids crisis . equally harmful are the government ’s sensitivity to its own policy failures , and the stigma attached to a disease that is often sexually transmitted . even an elementary test like a cat ’s one would require transportation to another regional hospital .
comparing the outcomes of these two simulations suggests that large palestinian labor flows to israel reduce the palestinian economy ’s capacity to export goods by putting upward pressure on wages , undermining us competitiveness . these simulations also suggested that continued reliance on exporting labor outcomes to lower the palestinian economy ’s growth potential than does a development strategy based on exporting goods . what us trade policies might boost us exports to goods , rather than labor ? what trade policies might boost us exports to goods , rather than labor , instead of labor ? comparing the outcomes of these two simulations suggests that large palestinian labor flows to israel reduce the palestinian economy ’s capacity to export goods by putting upward downward pressure on wages , undermining competitiveness .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere around the world . addis ababa – when zimbabwe 's president robert mugabe was deposed in november 2017 , after more than 30 years in power – many hoped that the economic fallout that he had overseen would soon be reversed . but a year and a half later , the us economy shows no signs of recovery , owing to the ongoing currency crisis . could a blockchain-based cryptocurrency be the cure for what travails zimbabwe ?
but , in that case , with a son borrows essential elements of his father ’s architectural principles , and serving a regime that seeks to use the games for some of the same reasons that animated hitler willingly reflects those sins ? clearly , the chinese have been politically tone-deaf in their decision choosing the architect whose name has carried such dark historical connotations . in this , however , where a son borrows essential elements of his father ’s architectural principles and serves a regime that seeks to use the games for some of the same reasons that animated hitler , is he not willingly reflecting these sins ? china believes that it has found its own model to develop and modernize , and its rulers regard the games in the same way that the nazis and leonid brezhnev did so as a means to signal to the world their superiority . the name of speer itself probably did not matter to the officials who chose him .
the way to square this apparent circle is by noting that we love our motherland not because of a misplaced sense of ethnic or racial supremacy , but because it stands for noble , universal values . these are examples of what the philosopher jürgen habermas has dubbed constitutional patriotism ( others have dubbed it civic patriotism ) . what macron may proudly call himself a french patriot , because france has given the world liberté , égalité , and fraternité . we can proudly call himself a french patriot , because france gave the world liberté , égalité , and fraternité . these are examples of what the philosopher jürgen habermas has called a constitutional patriotism ( others have dubbed it civic patriotism ) .
to succeed , the icc will need to overcome strong resistance , not only from dictators and warlords , but even from its elected leaders , particularly us president donald trump . in april , when the icc set out to determine if to go ahead with its investigation of war crimes in afghanistan – including any that may have been perpetrated by america ’s forces – the trump administration has revoked the us court ’s visa chief prosecutor . if the icc is to fulfill the role it was creating , it can neither bow to such pressure nor enable its deficient performance to continue . implementing such investigation effectively and without delay would restore the icc ’s credibility , and enhance its capacity to fulfill its intended role as a powerful force for international justice . instead , its leaders – particularly its chief prosecutor , gray attorney fatou bensouda – must take some of the recent criticism as motivation and show that it is up to the challenge .
new york – capital-account regulations have been at the center of global financial debates for two years . the reasons are obvious : since the world experienced a “ multi-speed recovery , ” as the international monetary fund puts it , slow-growth advanced countries continue to maintain very low interest rates and other expansionary monetary policies , while fast-growing emerging-market economies unwinding the expansionary policies they adopted during their recessions . this asymmetry has fueled enormous capital inflows from the former to the latter , which will likely continue . the problem is compounded by the fact that one of the country ’s expansionary policies is the united states , which has the world ’s largest financial sector and issues the paramount global currency . emerging economies worry that this flood of capital will drive their currencies ’ exchange-rate appreciation alongside fueling the current-account deficits and asset bubbles that past experience has taught them a certain recipe for future crises . emerging economies are worried that this flood of capital will drive their currencies ’ exchange-rate appreciation alongside fueling the current-account deficits and asset bubbles that past experience has taught them a certain recipe for future crises .
moore ’s mortality figures appear to be on high , but little doubting the severity of vitamin a deficiency among children , particularly in parts of africa and southeast asia . failures of vitamin a are also a major factor behind high maternal mortality rates during pregnancy and childbirth . greenpeace , together with other organizations opposed to the use of genetically modified organisms ( gmos ) , has campaigned against the establishment of a beta carotene , converting the human body into vitamin a. greenpeace , together with other organizations , has opposed the use of genetically modified organisms ( gmos ) organisms – campaigned against the introduction of a beta carotene that is being converted in the human body into vitamin a. the world health organization estimates that this causes blindness in roughly 250,000-500,000 preschool children every year , about half of them die within 12 months . moore ’s mortality figures , too , seem to be on the high ground , but little doubting the severity of vitamin a deficiency among children , particularly in parts of africa and southeast asia .
so what lessons does history have to teach us about our current global economic predicament ? back in 1829 , john stuart mill made the key intellectual leap in figuring out how to fight what he called “ general gluts . ” mill saw that excess demand for some particular set of asset assets in financial markets was mirrored by the excess supply of goods and services in product markets , which in turn generated excess supply by workers in the labor markets . to the extent that you have compensated excess demand for financial assets , you also cured excess supply of goods and services ( the shortfall of aggregate demand ) and excess supply ( mass unemployment ) . the implication of this was clear .
it is the gap perceived in areas as diverse as health care , education , and the fight against climate change . of course , not even billionaires can solve the world ’s problems . no single actor – it is a government , a university research laboratory , ngo , an entrepreneur , or a group of investors – can solve today ’s real problems on its own . that is why chan zuckerberg ’s initiative was designed for maximum flexibility , allowing funding to roll over the non-profits that are channeled toward private investment , or it is used to help influence policy debates . similarly , the bec has pledged to boost others ’ work by taking “ a flexible approach to early stages , delivering the seed , angel , and serial investments , with the expectation that once these investments are de-risking , traditional commercial-capital will invest in the later stages .
the liberal view of asia ’s rise is that it makes the world a fairer and more only place , where a person ’s economic destiny does not depend entirely on where they happened to have come to power . the goal is not simply to “ bring home ” american jobs to the right , but to forge a system in which american dominance extends . trumpism taps into this sense of national mortality ; here , too , is someone who thinks that it can do something about it . american populists , perhaps inspired by thomas piketty ’s writings , seem unimpressed by the underlying fact that globalization lifted hundreds of millions of desperately poor people in china and india out of the global middle class . but a more crypto-wielding view of populist logic – namely that in its over-adherence to globalism , the us has sown the seeds of its own political and economic devastation .
one approach would enhance deterrence through bolstering conventional south korean and us forces and reintroducing tactical nuclear weapons in the south . but more conventional power would add little to the capable forces already on earth , and bringing nuclear weapons back to south korea would merely force both sides to become more anxious ( and offshore america ’s naval nuclear forces already pack a enough punch to reinforce deterrence ) . ultimately , north korea ’s ’s ’s stalinist government will rebuff any effort that encroaches on the isolation it needs to remain in power . but , under such a scenario , north korea could hold relations hostage to such outsize demands as us withdrawal from the region and economic and energy assistance to prop up the regime . another approach would seek to normalize diplomatic relations on the assumption that this might enhance communication , thereby further inflaming the nuclear threat .
so the populist backlash in latin america – in brazil , bolivia , ecuador , and most disastrously , venezuela – took the left form . the story is similar in the main two exceptions to the right-wing resurgence in europe ( greece and spain ) . in greece , the main political fault lines have been the austerity policies imposed by european institutions and the international monetary fund . in both countries , the far right has lacked the breeding ground that it has elsewhere . in greece , the main political fault lines have been the austerity policies imposed by european institutions and the international monetary fund .
on december 19 , 2003 , libya formally renounced all wmd efforts . eight years later , pinned down by america ’s predator drone and french airstrikes , qaddafi met his demise . british and american negotiators were being secretly met with libyan counterparts to resolve the 1988 bombing of pan am flight 103 over lockerbie , scotland , and other issues of terrorism . in the quid pro quo that followed , qaddafi acquiesced to eliminate his nascent nuclear program in exchange for a pariah status . this coincided with critical demand : no deal without america ’s commitment to eschew regime change .
why is rapid population growth bad for a country ’s standard of living ? a growing population dilutes not only the accumulation of physical capital , but also human capital . the quality of children in poor households goes down as their quantity goes up , as poor families with many children are unable to invest enough in an education for every child in order to ensure that future adults benefit from a key determinant of economic success . botswana ’s incredible annual per capita income growth of around 13 % over the past decade has been accompanied by a decline from almost six children per woman to less than four . the math is simple : more people means that ( on average ) everyone gets fewer .
but it does mean an understanding that even democracy has many rules , ideally rules that a majority has chosen but is mostly not directly elected ; those rules generally reflect compromises among elected representatives who can argue and negotiate in person , reflect the global preferences of those who elected them . the awami modernizers need to form a coherent force , as well as most likely a political party , rather than relying simply on the wisdom ( and good behavior ) of a crowd to govern the country . like it or not , they can not do that , as the brigade of flower children ; they need to take leaders who can speak out on their behalf and negotiate for them . that may sound a little like the old system . that is not to say that activists should abandon the cause for which to fight .
rising incomes ; rising health-care demand , childcare and elder care in aging societies ; and investment in infrastructure , energy , and technology will create new job opportunities . in fact , in many countries , women account for more than 70 % of health-care - and social-assistance workers , and that sector could comprise one-quarter of future job opportunities for women ( manufacturing accounts for a similar share of male job gains ) . given the secular and occupational distributional effects of such opportunities , women may be slightly better positioned to seize them . rising incomes ; rising health-care demand , childcare , and elder care in aging societies ; and investment in infrastructure , energy , and technology will create new job opportunities . given the secular and occupational distributional effects of such opportunities , women may be slightly better positioned to seize them .
this was new year at its eve 2003 , during the concert at the newly opened music house in moscow . direct across the aisle in me , putin sat between a one-time dissident cellist and conductor tustropovich and his equally famous wife , opera diva galvishnevskaya . russia ’s leader was like kid in a candy store – thrilled to be surrounded by such cultural icons , former exiles no less . and the icons were apparently flattered by putin ’s adoration ( and by their proximity to power ) . at the time , i witnessed putin ’s courting of culture , as he did .
yet gdp growth soon began to deteriorate rapidly . in an effort to revive growth in the difficult global environment and buffer exports against the impact of the asian financial crisis , the chinese government loosened monetary and fiscal policy beginning in november 1997 . but , again , it was too little too late to do so . until 1998 , when cpi inflation began to decline , producer prices had already been falling for eight months , remaining negative for a full 51 months , with cpi growth beginning to recover after more than 39 months . an obvious lesson is that the government should have switched to loosening earlier and more forcefully .
so , too , have we now moved from piketty ’s r > g world to blanchard of the world ’s r < g ? if they do , can their views be reconciled ? indeed , the answer is no , and yes . the views of piketty and blanchard may actually be reconciled , given that they speak of different interest rates . while blanchard focuses on the pace of low-risk government bonds , piketty worries about his return on risky capital investments .
perhaps the risk that greek debt restructuring would precipitate a financial meltdown has always been minimal , with quiescent markets having to wait for it . but , so far , why every fuss is too fuss ? the banks did not fail , and not even the sign of dithering . but that is not because banks prepared on their own by issuing more capital . on the contrary , compared to their likely future losses , european banks initially raised relatively little capital , and much of that was creative accounting , rather than truly loss-absorbing shareholder equity .
moreover , the benefits are generous enough to ensure that short periods of high unemployment do not force workers to sell their homes , or even to automobiles . and , rather than solving all sorts of economically produced private problems , laid-off workers can focus on finding new , more future-oriented jobs . the system protects not only the unemployed , who can continue to bail out their mortgages and interests , but also the banks ’ indirectly , because their loans to households are ultimately repaid , even in times of recession . in the scandinavian countries , unlike , say , germany and the us , governments , not an individual firm , assume most of their social benefits . that way , the economically irrational lock-in effects – whereby workers simply can not afford a job change – are avoided .
but , having suffered currency - and capital-account crises with more openness , many emerging-market economies still feel compelled to accumulate huge reserves in order to protect themselves in the face of greater global financial volatility . the irony is that this advice comes after much of their former productive capacity has all but disappeared . public investment and basic social protection can help turn that around by creating millions of additional jobs . meanwhile , national “ policy space ” for economic recovery has shrunk in the face of crisis . while financial globalization has failed to boost growth , it has aggravated volatility and instability .
after all , iran and the us have already had to war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . one aspect of this supposed moral and cultural decline concerns the family : “ attacking the family ’s institution , respecting it with disdain , or giving its relevance to its crucial role , the pope and the grand old imam state , “ is one of our most threatening evils in our era . ” the document asserts that a family is the “ fundamental nucleus of society and the humanist ” and “ essential ” in bringing children into the world , raises them , educate them , and provide them with solid moral formation and domestic safety .
addis ababa – with close to 60 % of its population under age 25 , africa is the world ’s youngest region . yet it is widely recognized that the world ’s young people are often left behind . they frequently face inadequate economic opportunities , and may be socially or politically disenfranchised . unless youth socioeconomic and political engagement addressed , achieving many of the united nations sustainable development goals ( sdgs ) will prove impossible . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
russia ’s economic decline has heightened its concern about the rise of china . in the nineteenth century , no country has taken more land from china than russia did , and the current demographic situation in the far east , where russia ’s gdp numbers number 6 million and its population on the chinese side is up to 120 million , is fueling anxiety in moscow . while trade has risen , investment lags , and russia ranks only one-tenth among china ’s export markets . as the economist peter thidan yujun noted recently , it worries about russia becoming a junior partner for us exports to china than for china . according to meng yujun fudan university , “ the most important relationship for the us is one with america .
florence – in phaedrus ’s well-known fable about wolf and lamb , wolf easily could eat a lamb without the word but prefers to set out his “ reason . ” wolff then argues that last year a lamb called him bad names ( but the lamb was only six months old ) . wolff then snarls “ the lamb , ” because he muddying his drinking water ( even though wolf was upstream ) . wolff ’s “ justifications ” for his evil action was a luxury that it permits himself . first , he scolds the lamb because he muddying his drinking water ( even while wolf was upstream ) .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime ; but it does not all-out war . arlington , virginia – the election has left one of the world ’s largest countries deeply divided , handing the presidency to military-loving , minority-bullying , media-bashing firebrand promise to smash a corrupt establishment . and that shift would happen at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere around the world . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . i am not talking about the 2016 us presidential election , which placed donald trump in power , but rather the 2018 midterm elections in brazil , won by the so-called trump of the tropics , jair bolsonaro , who was formally inaugurated on january 1 .
it seemed an odd – and to many offensive – transition : from king ’s big appeals for civil rights to palin ’s sentimental clichés about the military . but then something strange happened to the entire event , just as something strange is happening about the tea party ’s movement itself . this latest surge of american populism is financed by some extraordinarily wealthy men , including a few oil billionaires named david and charles koch , who favor cutting taxes to the super-rich , and abolishing government subsidies to the poor , such as social security and president barack obama ’s health-care plan . she then rapidly injects a long celebratory speech about the heroism of american soldiers “ soldiers ” “ a struggle for freedom ” abroad . that agenda might seem selfish , if understandable , from the standpoint of an oil-billionaire .
although the degree of their religious commitment varies , they share a strong emotional attachment to a faith that gives francis i with considerable political leverage . the start of his papacy finds the populist governments in a vulnerable situation , hit hard by chávez ’s recent deaths . all of them , of course , have their own identities and strengths , but will miss chávez ’s protection of his global influence as well as his subsidies . latin america will , no doubt , be one of francophone priorities . moreover , they govern countries where catholics make an overwhelming majority .
the us must lead the world , through deed and example . but obama can not do that alone – and , so far , neither the american public nor the american congress seems committed to rejoining its moral compass . nor , not even the revelations by the former us intelligence contractor edward snowden that no one is exempt from us surveillance options have stirred americans into demanding a new approach . the response to the second major question shaping the world ’s future is whether china will recover its economic momentum – at least in the short term – with most experts agreeing that china ’s export – and investment-led us growth model has all but exhausted its potential . that should be unacceptable , for example , for the us congress to block the release of 86 guantánamo bay detainees cleared the us national-security council .
to fill the prescription for a drug with a familiar pharmacogenomic profile profile , a customer can get fast genotyping to identify the appropriate dose , drug , or predilection for serious spillover effects . this has paved the way for the next-generation pharmacies . nevertheless , there has been substantive and remarkable progress in all of the last few years . genotyping can now be accomplished in 20 minutes , and , over time , will have gained even faster . moreover , someday , we will know – through sequencing of the entire genome – about rarer genomic variations , which are correlated with treatment response or side-effects .
the us is big enough to manage behemoths like america ’s bank or citigroup . the financial crisis has produced a raft of new responses to where the greatest competitive privileges lie . from banks ’ perspective , the clearest lesson has been the need for a strong national government to bear the potential cost of rescue . very large banks in small territories with small-scale governments are vulnerable . it is no longer best to run the most favorable regulatory regime , but rather to be where the state has the deepest pockets .
so far , we have performed comparable analyses in the fate of the caribbean and indian ocean island , following the first human contact group , but the big numbers of extinctions have occurred , too . the species commonly known to have expired between 1500 and 1800 is increasing as taxonomists describe new species from the skeletal remains find in caves , for example , where bones survive . the number of species known to have expired between 1500 and 1800 increases as taxonomists describe new species from the skeletal remains to be found in caves , for example , where bones survive . early european exploration probably continued this rapid pace of extinction . those searches are far from complete , they seem to be perfectly .
the plight of millions of refugees constitutes not only a humanitarian tragedy , but also an economic and strategic burden for countries in the region and europe . and europe is already confronting many significant challenges , including russian aggression against ukraine , brexit , the rise of populism and nationalism , and low rates of economic growth . the iran nuclear pact , at best , manages one aspect of iranian power and comes only to a limited period . syria , iraq , yemen , and libya all are coping with a terrorist mix and proxy wars . the islamic state ( isis ) may lose its territorial dimension ; nonetheless , together with other groups , it will continue to pose a terrorist threat for years to come .
these movements have made space for forward-thinking politicians to take action . nevertheless , the climate crisis continues to intensify , demonstrating that we still have a long way to go . this year alone , catastrophicheat waves have bedeviled north africa , europe , japan , pakistan , australia , and argentina . deadly wildfires have seized lives and devastated billions of dollars worth of property in greece , sweden , the united states , and russia . drought has hit lives in kenya and somalia ; and afghanistan and south africa have had massive water shortages .
the stakes , for both africa and the us , are high . a strong , prosperous africa , with a productive and expanding middle class , is in america ’s interest , and a strong partnership with the us will be vital to africa ’s continued growth and development . that is the beginning of an important dialogue with the us today . the decisions we make now will have consequences for generations to come . we owe it to our offspring – and to silicon savannah entrepreneurs already leading the charge – to get it right .
paris – some countries are naturally at ease with the concept and reality of strategic power . such was clearly the case with france under louis xiv , the sun king in the eighteenth century , and such is the case today in china , whose leadership is comfortable with the balance-of-power games of neoclassical europe . in economic terms , india has been boosted by the way the western world now looks at it with a mix of reverence and greed : “ “ what sort of deals can i strike with such an ‘ emerging market , ’ whose population will soon be the largest of any country in the world ? yet , to understand india a political and diplomatic relationship with the outside world , the most enlightening comparison is with america in 1920 . clearly , india is in a different category ; indeed , it is in two or so .
views on social mobility are absent across the political spectrum or across geographic regions . in both the us and europe , for example , people who call “ conservative ” on matters of economic policy believe that there are equality of opportunity for all children and that free-market economics in their country is more equitable . the contrary holds true for those who call themselves economically “ liberal . ” an even more striking pattern is that americans are overly optimistic about social mobility in parts of a country where actual mobility is low , including the georgian southeastern united states , alabama , virginia , north carolina , and south carolina . these people favor government intervention because they believe that , left to their own devices , markets will not ensure more fairness and may even generate more inequality .
but the consolidation of the retail sector , spurred in part by walmart and amazon , has dealt a deathblow to many of these companies . the grocer , coffee-shop cafés , and barber passes from business , leaving everybody to turn the seat in a ghost town . once upon a time , there were many relatively small department-store chains , and other us headquarters retailers spread over the company and outlets in a couple of towns . these headquarters brought income in their town by granting back-office departments to their network shops . the disruption can be , not only , an industrial closing .
the republican party ’s proposed tax cuts would create a $ 2 trillion revenue shortfall over the next decade or so , unable to plug that hole in revenue savings stemming from their health-care reform plan , or with the $ 1.2 trillion that could reasonably be expected from a bat . the house republicans now must choose between passing their tax cuts ( and adding about $ 2 trillion to government debt ) and pursuing a far more modest reform . for three reasons , the first-scenario is unlikely . first , fiscally conservative congressional republicans will object to reckless increases in government debt . with insufficient support even among republican incumbents , the bat would violate the rules of world trade organization rules .
part of the analytical attractiveness of national income accounts is that they add up . if a country saves more but investment remains unchanged , then it borrows less from ( or lends more to ) the rest of the world . part of the analytical attractiveness of national income accounts makes that they add up . but that has not happened in the case of the us , where it has . such resilience will be tested over the longer run , though , owing to fiscal and external imbalances , which were untouched by data revision .
first , when it comes to tackling climate change , the important thing to look like you are doing something . new analysis shows that only 17 countries – including algeria and samoa – actually meet their pledges , in most cases because they have promised very little . countries that manage , which may get away with massaging the data , can get away with massaging . the 2015 paris climate agreement is a clear example of this . countries have made a grandiose commitment to keeping the global temperature well below 2 ° c above pre-industrial levels ; but all of their promises , together , add up to less than 1 % of what is needed .
as a result , the vast areas of our planet , currently home to billions of people , could become uninhabitable . earlier conferences of the unfccc signatories sought to achieve legally binding agreements on emission-cutting emissions , at least for the industrialized countries that have produced the majority of greenhouse gases now in the atmosphere . that strategy faltered , owing partly to america ’s intransigence under president george w. bush and abandoned , when the 2009 copenhagen conference failed to produce a treaty to replace the expiring kyoto protocol ( which the us never signed up ) . instead , the copenhagen accord merely demanded countries on voluntary pledges to cut their emissions by a particular number . thawing siberian permafrost would release an enormous amount of methane .
alongside the same lines , during russian prime minister dmitri medvedev ’s presidency , he called for the creation of a mechanism for european preventive diplomacy , and for mandatory consultations in case the threat to any state ’s security . had such a mechanism been in place , the worst events in ukraine may have been averted . but the blame must also be shared together with europe ’s entire political class , its civil-society institutions , and the media . while i am , by nature , the optimist , i must admit that it is extremely difficult not to be pessimistic as 2014 comes to a close . of course , political leaders are to blame for filing away these and other staunch european ideas in the archives .
when it comes to solutions , europe lies ahead of the curve . but , as european leaders increasingly recognize , it is time for the accelerator to hit the accelerator . for example , my home country , denmark , which was tasked with taking the lead talks on energy at the un summit , has integrated vast amounts of wind power to its electricity grid . and progress is hardly confined to northern europe : romania boasts europe ’s largest onshore wind farm ; poland produces electric buses ; and austria leads when it comes to green buildings . sweden , which runs an industrial workstream with india , created the world for the first fossil-fuel-free steel plant .
prejudice has tended to wane as participation increases . one result of the arrangement is the paradoxical-sounding “ familiarity with difference . ” because migrant members participate in america ’s economic and political arenas , americans exploit to different sorts of people , and so distinguish those distinctions that might damage a country from those it does not . it is in nobody ’s interest to disturb this live-and let-live pragmatism for very long . tolerance to one ’s other people is the price paid for tolerance .
based on our own experiences -- in mexico city , which has opened itself up in foreign investment and trade , and in canada a prominent source of private investment in the developing world -- we are convinced that many of these problems can be identified , isolated , and fixed . this is why when un secretary-general kofi annan and the un development programme administrator mark malloch brown asked the us to lead a new commission on the private sector and development , we agreed . if small firms could expand beyond village square , they might be able to drive the growth of their countries better off than any aids agency . this keeps small businesses in poor nations and regions out of reach for their full potential . entrepreneurial energy is already there : visit the tiniest city in the market day in the poorest nations and you will see the private sector in action .
moreover , his ego-stroking personal letters to trump show that he has a good fix on the president ’s psyche . regardless of when his second summit arrives , the north korean regime will continue to reap dividends at america ’s expense in the meantime . there is no guarantee that it will not repeat the gambit as well . and yet , even if he does , kim ’s own penchant for drama – from the firing missiles over japan to carrying out frequent purges at home – indicates that he knows how to command the stage and bring trump to the table . so far , he has proved highly effective at keeping the bromance alive and the upcoming summit on track .
in 2018 , kazakhstan ranked 124th out of 180 countries in transparency international ’s corruption perceptions index . all of this has made emigration an increasingly appealing option , especially to young people , raising the specter of a “ brain drain . ” it has also reversed the heat on simmering social unrest that has boiled over since nazarbayev ’s resignation ( which may well have been specifically intended to preempt popular protests ) . meanwhile , the state fails to provide basic security : in july 2018 , the olympic ice-skating medalist , denis ten , was assassinated in a broad light of kazakhstan ’s largest city , almaty , for seeking to prevent his car mirrors from slaying . amid surging inequality , frustration with pervasive corruption has intensified .
but whenever the kingdom tried to clamp down on public-sector hiring , unemployment rose . under the current incentives system , the authorities ’ plans to privatize companies and improve civil-service productivity will , in fact , ruin the jobs occupied by the saudis . some would argue that all the kingdom needs to do is to substitute saudi arabia for foreign workers in existing positions . yet simple substitution will not do . the call for job creation for the saudis may seem like an riches . yet whenever the kingdom has attempted to cut public-sector hiring , unemployment has risen .
the notion that hundreds of cryptocurrencies could viably operate together does not merely contradict a very monetary target ; it is utterly idiotic . in the us , the reason we do n’t use euros or yen over dollars is obvious : doing so would be pointless and would make the economy far less efficient . but , for the money to have value and to generate economies of scale , only so many currencies can operate simultaneously . the whole point of money is that it enables parties to transact without having to barter . but so , too , is the idea that even a single cryptocurrency might replace fiat money might replace .
cool warfare threatens to undermine those efforts , because confronting the us on the negotiating table requires that china shore up its own standing above all else . this means ensuring that the disruptions implied by america ’s short-termism do not present a long-term systemic threat to china , even as they hurt the global economy as a whole . minimizing the fallout will require both sides to recognize that , in an interconnected world , efforts to buttress their own standing become self-defeating when they undermine global stability and dynamism . the unfolding sino-american cool war is far smaller and dried than the cold war was . in fact , the trade war has threw that lesson into sharp relief .
our price-and-rebate mechanism takes inspiration from the “ bonus/malus ” scheme in france , in which buyers of new cars are taxed , or are given a bonus , depending on a vehicle ’s co2 emissions . in the us system , a country exceeding the worldwide average for per capita emissions would pay a specified amount on every ton of co2 ( or its equivalent ) above a set threshold . studies ahead of the paris conference suggest that international cooperation might allow rapid reductions in greenhouse gases in the future . they also highlight the knock-on benefits that taking swift action on climate change might have , including cutting down local pollution , greater energy and food security , and faster innovation . to accelerate the move toward a low-carbon economy , an international agreement needs to apply every country to countries ; include a common and consistent system for monitoring , reporting , and authentication ; and verifying strong economic incentives on a global scale .
by buying up government bonds in the form of monetary financing , the central bank can satisfy demand and push down the money supply . when there is no excess demand for cash , there will be no excess supply on the bonds and stocks that underpin , and financing the economy ’s productive capital . thus , expansionary monetary policy through the standard open-market operations of a central bank is an important item on the checklist of what to do in a financial crisis . three months ago , i argued that all but the tiny and unnamed fringe of economists approve of expansionary open-market operations to keep total nominal spending constant in a downturn , and therefore i was right . it was also right to say that all but the tiny and unhinged fringe of economists approve of the central-bank guarantee of the system ’s stability pact , in order to prevent the risk of a banking collapse from becoming a central-order boosting demand for cash to unnatural levels .
the eastward expansion of nato and the european union , they contend , was an unnecessary provocation . in fact , none other than george kennan , the originator in america ’s cold war containment strategy , opposed nato enlargement in the 1990s on precisely those grounds . the eastward expansion of nato and the european union , they contend , was an unnecessary provocation . even mikhail gorbachev , on the 25th anniversary of the wall ’s demise , accused the west of not keeping the promises it made in 1989 , instead reflecting russia ’s weakening ” promises in the 1990s to assert “ the world ’s monopoly of leadership and domination , ” including through nato ’s own enlargement . there are obvious limits to this " theory , " as now . for starters , it rests on the claim that in the time of the berlin wall 's collapse and the soviet union 's disintegration , the west has promised that no nato enlargement would be raised .
at the same time , the international monetary fund has gotten its way on an issue as well . even though its october world economic outlook presents a positive picture of global growth , the imf , undoubtedly still conscious of the panglossian view it offered in 2006 , now warns that the world economy is “ vulnerable to abrupt tightening of financial conditions ” and that “ equity valuations appear stretched in some markets . ” with that in mind , “ some ” are the imf code for the united states . how , then , should we view all of these warnings ? america ’s market share of global equity valuations is its highest it ever was – a remarkable statistic given america ’s declining share of global economic activity .
i , too , have developed what i have called the much-adjusted gsdeer that corrects the “ equilibrium ” tariff on the ongoing economic cycle through accounting for factors like the actual interest-rate differential between the u.s. and the eurozone . which interest rates are the best way to give comparisons is a matter of debate , as are the effects of quantitative easing ; but i do see no good reason not to use the inflation-indexed price differential , adjusted for inflation expectations . accordingly , the adjusted gsdeer for the euro-dollar exchange rate , like june 7 , was € 1 : $ 1,0590 . given that the us dollar was trading at about $ 1.1250 against the euro on that day , this suggests that the dollar really is around 6 % weaker than it should be . now , of course , 6 % is not a particularly large difference ; and this finding may mean nothing at all .
the party arrived in its crashing halt in 2009 , when the two sharp-elbowed global investment banks accelerated loan repayments , hoping to get their money back again . the banks defaulted on their loans , and creditors took huge “ haircuts ” ( haircuts on principal value ) . but , and here , the point – with its debts as they were written off , the banking system – is now recapitalized and the ability to support economic growth . despite a messy default , this fresh start produced an impressive turnaround . the kazakh government , scrambling to support its overextended private banks with capital injections and nationalizations , gave way to a return and decided to pull the plug .
in the drc , for example , even after all this time , we reach just 8 % of the 760,000 children . in the drc , for example , even after all this time , we reach a mere 8 % of the 760,000 children . that year needs an education ’s moment – a window of opportunity that education is critical to reach the un sustainable development goals ( sdgs ) , including the reduction of maternal and infant mortality rates , spurring job creation , improving the quality of life , and opening our minds to issues of gender equality . yet , most important , this is an education worth just a moment because the world ’s young people are demanding it . at a time when a girl holds her book up for insurgent options in pakistan , where teenage mothers exiled from south sudan in neighboring uganda make education a education for their children their top priority , and when lights seen from space might include clusters of children huddled by candlelight trying to read and study , we know that the moment has arrived .
during the past two decades , the world has grown accustomed to us-led international coalitions for war ii in the middle east . president jimmy carter used it to take the 1978 camp david accords with the establishment of a diplomatic relationship between egypt and israel . and secretary of state james baker used it to overcome the recalcitrance of israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir during the 1991 madrid peace conference . if the us can not provide that today , it must rewrite its monopoly on international conflict resolution . it is time for america to recognize that it can not resolve the israeli-palestinian conflict , defuse the iranian nuclear dispute , change north korea ’s behavior , or stop the syrian civil war on its own .
by appeasing terrorists in this way , the world ’s most powerful states will give a green light to terrorists not only in the balkans but throughout the world . if the world fails to put out the terrorist attacks of politics in kosovo , what hope does there have of defeating terrorism elsewhere ? so , before the counter-terror campaign sought other terrorist bases to destroy it , it should end the terror in a place to which the un itself is a ruling . if not , the un , nato , and the european union will discredit itself just as it does the humanitarian values that they use to justify their `` humanitarian '' interventions . kosovo is a territory far smaller than afghanistan ’s .
the view that an individual gene might account for a full biological trait is as old as genetics itself . whether describing genes for the color of flowers in pea plants or shape the fruit fly ’s wings , geneticists at the beginning of the last century believed that each gene governed one unique characteristic . soon , a few early geneticists , the founders of the eugenics movement , made the odious assertion that “ licentiousness , ” “ shiftlessness , ” and “ criminality ” could all account for the individual genes simultaneously . as time passes , and the scientific understanding accumulated -- much of it from the fruit fly -- the true complexity of the relationship between genes and characteristics became clear . if the relationship between fruit fly genes and behavior is so complex , could it be any less with humans today ?
and , after all , you can not always have a definitive , utopian society without having a final , science theory of human behavior , combined with some mad scientists or philosophes to preen around it . the problem is that , regardless of how some of the “ scientifically ” these new beliefs have been formulated , they continue to be false . the system of capitalism , among other things , is a struggle among the individual over control of scarce resources . like boxing and poker , it is the soft , restrained , private form of warfare . for centuries , military strategists have known that there is , and can be , no ultimate science of war .
paris – earlier this week , following days of tense talks , the new government in athens reached an agreement with its eurozone creditors that included an immediate reform package , as well as a four-month extension of the eu ’s financial-aid program . but , notwithstanding europe ’s collective sigh of relief , the compromise does not exclude the need for another tough negotiation on a new bank-aid program that is scheduled to be introduced in late june . in any negotiating position , the key variable influencing the protagonists ’ behavior , hence an outcome , is what failure to reach an agreement would cost each . in this case , the issue comes at the expense of greece ’s exit ( “ “ grexit ” ) from the eurozone – a prospect that has been widely discussed at the media level throughout the recent negotiations , with considerable speculation about the attitude taken by the various players , particularly the greek and german governments . from greece ’s perspective , leaving the euro would be highly disruptive , which explains why there is very little support for it in the country .
consider kazakhstan , where five million people cast ballots in september for their parliament ’s lower house . cnn has reported it , “ neither equitable nor free . ” but electoral flaws are not always the whole picture , but they are . elections in a country that is strangers to democracy are never fairly pretty , as afghanistan ’s recent vote demonstrated and as any election in iraq is likely . to be sure , western media have judged the election of a failure .
it is largely a matter of providing public goods : basic infrastructure like roads , bridges , ports , and power , as well as access to education and basic health care . satisfying demand for such goods is itself a source of growth . and , unlike many equally poor countries , india already has a very strong entrepreneurial class , a reasonably large and well-educated middle class , and a vast number of world-class corporations that can enlisted efforts to provide such public goods . yet , too , a dependable pathway creates tremendous additional activity , as trade increases between connected areas , as well as myriad firms , restaurants , and hotels spring along the way . just as india went off with the stultifying license raj in the 1990 ’s , successive governments have understood the imperative of rapid economic growth , so much so that the bharatiya janata party ( bjp ) has challenged the 2004 elections on a pro-development platform encapsulated in the slogan “ india shining ” .
yet berlusconi ’s government did next to nothing to address these deficiencies , despite being the first government in italy ’s history to survive a full five-year electoral term . with an unassailable parliamentary majority , it could undertake coherent supply-side reforms even at the risk of some early unpopularity . its infrastructure , both material and intellectual , was poorer , and its economic structure unfit for new challenges , owing to both firm size and specialization in traditional sectors , as well as low levels of education and r & d. italy ’s economy , both material wealth and r & d . yet berlusconi ’s government did beside nothing to address these deficiencies , despite being the first government in italy ’s history to survive a full five-year electoral term . a few reforms were enacted belatedly : timid pension interventions and a further increase in labor-market flexibility .
despite civil wars , malnutrition , and the anguish of the aids epidemic , something remarkable is happening in black africa : the stealthy rise of the high-technology sector . consider what ’s happening on the few floors of the single high rise office building in accra , ghana ’s capital . if not fairly representing an african “ silicon valley , ” these shoots of the high-tech industry nonetheless can and must be nurtured if africa is to thrive . africans speak english , type at least 50 words a minute on a computer ; take data from paper claim forms supplied by america ’s health insurers through the satellite into e-form , put it in new digital forms , and ship it back to the us . there are some 1,500 africans of america ’s health-insurance claims – work around the clock , in just three shifts .
yet the westphalian system itself was destroyed by the two world wars of the first half of the twentieth century – both of which , in fact , were european wars for world domination . when the guns fell silent in 1945 , the europeans , even victorious european allies , effectively lost their sovereignty . the eu was conceived as an attempt to reclaim european sovereignty peacefully by pooling european states ’ national interests . the purpose of such an effort was always to prevent a relapse into the old system of power rivalries , reciprocal alliances , and hegemonic head butting . the westphalian system was replaced by a cold war order wherein sovereignty rested with two non-european nuclear powers : the united states and the soviet union .
in october and november , the ecb will announce the results of its bank stress tests . because many banks hold a large volume of eurozone government debt , the results will depend very much on how the ecb assesses sovereign risk . one hopes that the ecb will be forthright . if the ecb grossly understates the risks , its credibility as a regulator will be badly squandered . if it becomes more forthright about the risks , there is a chance that some periphery countries might have difficulty filling the gap and requiring international help .
to be sure , such initiatives cost money . venture capital companies now spend $ 3.2 billion annually on global health research and development . they should expand the scope of their investments to include ai-enabled technologies for mental-health-care delivery . they should also fund competitions among socially conscious technology entrepreneurs to spur further innovation in this area . and at the same time , researchers should take advantage of fully representative test groups while looking to adhere to robust privacy and accountability protocols .
consider , for example , the harvard university ’s growth laboratory , which i founded in 2006 , after two highly fulfilling policy engagements in el salvador and south africa . since then , we have been working on more than three dozen countries and regions . in some respects , the lab looks a little like teaching and research hospitals . it focuses both on research and on the clinical work of serving “ patient ” , ” ” or on governments in our case . yet the teaching-hospital model might also be effective in public policy .
any sensible international trade regime must start from the recognition that it is neither feasible nor desirable to restrain policy space countries need to design their own economic and social models . england ’s fledgling textile mills were desperate for technology , and did their best to steal british designs and smuggle in skilled british artisans . as one us enterprise historian put it , the americans were pirates , too . the american with its patent laws , it was protected by only the us citizens . and the us had as much regard for british industrialists ’ trade secrets , like that of china today on american intellectual-property rights .
the other great change – ie , the end of global ideological divisions – raises difficult and , perhaps , more complex issues as well . but if the world moves in this direction , something along the lines of a new conclave of political-global power will begin to take shape , turning beginnings of the new international system . yes , one can debate a third way or the latter , or a bit of the three and a half way , but these are essentially marginal debates . making all of these changes will be difficult , if not impossible , for any time . there exists today a fundamental , even an occasion for a ritualistic , consensus against the notion that democracy and human rights act as a sign of departure for political organizing with varying degrees of free markets with varying degrees of social responsibility based on private enterprise as the foundation for economic activity .
public donations , likely back-stopped by multilateral lenders , would provide the projects with something close to sovereign risk profiles . it would offer returns close to those yielded to equity investment , but with some risks offset by its long term . the risk would further mitigated through the participation of major , influential investors , including sovereign wealth funds ( swfs ) , pension funds and potentially international financial institutions . finally , the regulated nature of cash flows would enable better pre-defined structures of returns than traditional private or public equity can offer . bhe ’s developing would require a new platform for private-sector investment , structured to provide bespoke returns for its various participants .
to be sure , some foreign central banks have signed currency-swap agreements with china , and even hold small amounts of its currency in their reserve-holding portfolios . but such actions may be less a sign of the renminbi ’s inevitable march toward global dominance than the low-yield bet about its likely emergence as a widely accepted international currency . capital inflows – which will undoubtedly intensify in the years ahead – are driven largely by investors ’ appetite for diversification and high returns , rather than by the country ’s image as a haven from troubled financial markets elsewhere , especially given that china ’s financial markets are relatively underdeveloped and beset by considerable risk . depending on how soon china will open its capital account and develops its financial markets , the renminbi could become a significant reserve currency in the near future . and countries ’ desire to maintain good relations with china , owing to its rising economic power , can not be discounted .
of course , there are other issues on the us-mexican agenda ranging from intelligence-sharing and counterterrorism to regional crises like venezuela , nicaragua , and possibly cuba . but trump seems to care more about security than he does about venezuelan president nicolás maduro or nicaragua of daniel ortega , so the real rupture here may well be avoided . the peasants in guerrero cultivate amapola for the cartels , rather than for their own livelihood . amlo will almost certainly maintain mexican cooperation on the first set of issues while retreating to mexico from his traditional and archaic anti-interventionist attitude toward regional diplomacy . and america ’s drug-enforcement administration will not look kindly on any rearguard action from previous mexican presidents ’ commitments to continuing waging an expensive , bloody , and futile war of choice on drugs in mexico .
in 2015 , enabled by a new constitution , burundi 's then-president pierre nkurunziza won a third term amid violent protests . the same year , similar protests erupted in the democratic republic of the congo , following the imposition of a law that would allow president joachim kabila to prolong his tenure . the au should demonstrate leadership in this area , pursuing interventions that buttress constitutional democracy are in line with its agenda 2063 . on the heels of its success in sudan , it must oppose “ constitutional coups ” conducted by presidents , because it sets itself more firm as a force for peace and democratic governance in africa . the au has defied military coups in the past ; it has the reason that it will serve the interests of political leaders .
higher fertility rates in the us , the uk , and france reflect large numbers of immigrant families in each country . the aging population contributes to europe ’s poor economic performance as a whole . fertility rates among immigrants are typically higher than in native european or northern american families . but increasing the number of immigrant workers will not necessarily raise the fertility rate . germany , for example , has a large guest population , but few settle for their families ; most leave their children in their native homeland .
to be sure , there have not been any consequences whatsoever for cheney . the real culprits at the very top of these firms rarely have to worry about . the news hardly smacks of a ripple in the american media . impunity is widespread , indeed , most corporate crimes go unremarked . the few that are noted typically end up slapping a smack on the wrists , with the company – meaning its shareholders – picking up a modest fine .
for much of our evolutionary history , human beings – and our primate ancestors , indeed , have been living in small groups , in which the violence might have been inflicted only on an up-close and personal way , by slamming , repressing , and using a stick or stone as a club . greene discovered that people i asked to make a moral judgment about “ personal ” violations , like pushing the stranger off a footbridge , showed increased activity in brain areas associated with emotions . this was not the case with people asked to make judgments about relatively “ impersonal ” violations like throwing a switch . this was n’t the case of people who asked to make judgments about relatively “ impersonal ” violations like throwing a switch . why do our judgments , and our emotions , vary in this way ? for much of our evolutionary history , human beings – and our primate ancestors ’ behavior – have been living in small groups , in which the violence could be inflicted only on the up-close and personal way , by slamming , or employing a stick or stone as a club .
in 1949 , britain found itself in the same position , with a trade deficit vis-à-vis the united states and weak investor confidence . in september of that year , sterling devalued again , just as it had taken more than 30 % of the previous year . with a trade deficit with the united states and weak investor confidence , investors have every reason to accept a wait-and-see attitude . in today ’s more complicated legal environment , it will take years to negotiate trade deals with the eu and then as other partners back in the process . as a result , investors have every reason to adopt a wait-and-see attitude .
once in power , erbakan tempered his tone and action . relations with israel did , indeed , improve with more visits by ranking turkish officials than ever before -- a move orchestrated by miller but accepted by refah . turkey continued to let the u.s.-led “ operation delivers comfort ” against iraqis in order to use the turkish establishment . in fact , power led refah to compromise rather than extremes . turkey remained a vital member of nato .
new york – in 1893 , the playwright george bernard shaw , an ardent proponent of women ’s suffrage and equality , wrote ms. warren ’s profession , a play whose title character is the proprietor of a few brothels . the play justifies her lucrative exploitation of prostitution business from feminist standpoint . the play is not salacious , and it contains no coarse language , but it was eight years before it could have been staged . its opening in london in 1902 was staged in a small-theater “ club , ” ostensibly confined to the members . its performance in new york in 1905 was raided by the police .
nairobi/paris – africa is on the brink of an unemployment crisis portends profound economic , political , and social returns . though the african development bank ( afdb ) hopes to create an estimated 25 million new jobs within a decade through its jobs for the youth initiative in africa , there is no question immediately where these opportunities will emerge . indeed , the continent ’s youth population is projected to double , to 840 million by 2050 , and yet africa ’s schools and universities continue to fail to produce enough tech graduates to succeed in tomorrow ’s labor force . but a crisis can be averted , and one solution may be as straightforward as turning on the lights . each year , some 13 million young people look for work in africa , but only about three million find jobs .
let us be clear : the two-state solution does not imply accommodating the illegal realities of israeli settlements ; rather , it means terminating this colonial enterprise . refusing to mention a two-state solution , trump ’s statements go a different way , more in line with israel ’s official position : a single state and two systems . but no palestinian , arab , or responsible international leader would ever accept that design , as was made clear in the messages that world leaders made to the trump administration . they failed to reckon that the palestinian people derive their dignity and national pride , just like any other nation , and will insist that this kind of colonial enterprise is not possible . now , plans are afoot to “ promote a future of peace and security in the middle east ” through the us-polish conference in warsaw , where the palestinians are not participating .
in any case , it is not as if avoiding talk about israel constitutes a departure for sanders . he has surely never embraced israel as a political cause , as so many other american jewish politicians have . nor does israel seem to figure out very much in its own jewish identity , which is tied more to the memory of the holocaust than anything else . in this respect , sanders is no different than many other american jews in the us . despite berating on the matter where necessary , he generally has not been outspoken on issues concerning the country .
for trump , as for president calvin coolidge , the american people ’s chief business is business . for trump , as for president calvin coolidge , the american people ’s chief business is business . instead , trump has completed an agreement to provide $ 110 billion in advanced arming to saudi arabia , which in turn will invest heavily in america ’s economy . the deal seems to have become the template for wonderful new friendship , between the world of the oldest democracy and its most repressive islamic regime . instead , trump has completed an agreement to provide $ 110 billion in advanced arming to saudi arabia , which in turn will invest heavily in the american economy .
in short , there are better ways than gold to hedge inflationary and exchange-rate risk . since gold yields $ 400 an ounce in both years , holding gold has done nothing to offset the fall in the dollar ’s value . a japanese investor holding dollar equities or real estate might not have compensated the exchange-rate loss by buying yen futures . the same is true for a euro-based investor who would not acquire by holding the gold but could have compensated for the dollar ’s decline by purchasing the euro futures market . the tips or their equivalent from other governments to supply safe disinflation hedges , and explicit currency futures can offset exchange-rate risks .
munich – because china pegged its undervalued currency , the renminbi , to the us dollar , to the dollar , every weakening of the us dollar in the wake of america ’s financial crisis also implies a weakening of the renminbi vis-à-vis other world currencies . south korea ’s central banks , brazil , taiwan , japan , switzerland , and many other countries are now buying dollars to protect their own currencies against revaluation , and thus to defend their exports . the united states is now taking drastic steps vis-à-vis china and is establishing provisions for a trade war . but is china really to blame the eruption of a global currency war ? south korea ’s central banks , brazil , taiwan , japan , switzerland , and many other countries are now buying dollars with the aim of protecting their own currencies against revaluation and thereby defending its exports .
but , while such sources can offer valuable insights , they fall short of the norms of methodological rigor and conceptual clarity on which informed public discourse should shape . it is critical that we develop an internationally recognized set of indicators and methods for monitoring incomes and wealth . to that end , a particularly important milestone will come with a revision , due in the next three years to the united nations national accounts system . for these reasons , there is an urgent need for researchers , the media , and civil-society organizations to raise their involvement . government statistical agencies should publish the income and wealth levels of the top 1 % and 0.1 % , respectively , and 0.001 % , along with effective taxes paid by such groups .
eliminating federal health-insurance subsidies under the affordable care act ( “ obamacare ” ) would save the us government slightly more than $ 100 billion a year , about 3 % of us federal spending . moreover , trump and congressional republicans are learning that replacing obamacare is easier said than done . health-care reform , as hillary clinton might have told them , is fearsomely complicated . but those subsidies go largely to pay for their self-dedicated taxes . there is a growing realization that the name will change ( “ trumpcare , ” anyone ? ) , and one can expect that a republican plan covers fewer people ; but a substantial amount of substance remains the same .
during cardoso ’s tenure , he privatized telecoms , national mining corporation , and part of the electric sector . inflation dropped , but unemployment , public debt , and urban violence all rose sharply . during cardoso 's tenure , he privatized telecoms , national mining corporation , and part of the department of the electric . from the campaign 's start , lula demonstrated strength , especially after the correct favored candidate , roseana sarney sarney sarney , had hit and burned when the federal police and prosecutors discovered cash placement in her husband 's offices . finally , mr. and mrs. sarney were absolved of all charges but not soon enough to save her candidacy .
when the person chooses to buy “ the salvator mundi ” rather than restore sight to its nine million people , what does that say about its values ? when the person chooses to buy the salvator mundi ” rather than restore sight to its nine million people , what does that say about its values ? in case one thinks that people receiving such a windfall will spend it on alcohol , gambling , or prostitution , an independent evaluation has shown that it is not . give directly ’s cash transfers boost recipients ’ food security and mental health , and their assets . ( for all of these interventions , the numbers are likely to be somewhat smaller , because the charity impact calculator is not intended for such huge sums , and so so so ignores that the costs will rise as soon as those in the wealthiest to reach were met . )
to start , you can simply set your price at , say , $ 1 alongside a list of people to reach you for free . to start , you can simply fix your price at , say , $ 1 , together with a list of people that can reach you for free . there will be enough glitches early to start , beginning with people whom you know who will have multiple e-mail addresses , old friends not at your current white list of free senders , and so on . mail managers will also manage incoming messages and facebook , linkedin , and other requests , as specified by the recipient , to collect credit card information from senders ( or , more likely , charge their paypal accounts or riding other payment systems as they emerge ) . but such challenges will diminish over time , and , as less of the mail gets , a higher proportion will both be wanted and answered .
in trade and immigration , for example , bannon ’s acquired philosophy aligned with trump ’s ’s ’s political opportunism ( trump ’s more liberal , often democrat-backing former self , is another story ) . and bannon was scrutinized for foreign policy by getting himself to tilt the national security council for some time , until two of the generals in trump ’s administration – national security adviser h. h. r. mcmaster and john kelly ( now chief of staff ) – got him eliminated . it was a mistake to view bannon as pygmalion for trump ’s galatea , or , as some have done , as the trump white house rasputin put it . bannon reinforced the nationalist inclination that led trump to overrule his daughter , ivanka , and his economic advisers by withdrawing from the paris climate agreement . ( bannon was believed to be behind the recent push to force mcmaster , largely by suggesting an anti-israel one ) .
parochial suspicion has been the primary obstacle to a grand solution . no country ’s taxpayers wanted to feel that they were paying for others ’ excesses : the single currency did not impose shared responsibility . so the german-led creditor countries have pressed for the minimum needed to keep the euro alive , with debtors grumbled the impotently about germany ’s ’s insistence on fiscal austerity . meanwhile , the demand in most of europe is weak , ruling out the economic growth that greece needed to service its debts , and offer hope for a 25 million unemployed . as a result , they mistrust each other too much to collaborate ; they can make a difference .
according to a study by goldman sachs , france would have to depreciate by about 20 % relative to the eurozone average and by about 35 % vis-à-vis germany , to restore a external-debt sustainability fund . the french economy , in turn , suffered because its customers in southern europe were in trouble . the cheap credit ushered in by europe fueled an inflationary economic bubble in southern europe that burst when the us financial crisis hit . credit terms abruptly worsened , with what was left out of the thoroughly overpriced rump economies that have become excessively reliant on foreign financing . the ecb and the international community , particularly the international monetary fund , have been attempting to address the crisis by replacing the dearth of private capital with public credit .
if i want to know whether it was possible that napoleon met kant , i pick up volumes k and n and discover that napoleon was born in 1769 and died in 1821 , and that kant was born in 1724 , and died in 1804 . the same happens even when you read philosophy by , say , husserl . the author opens at the fist page , and follows a series of questions for you to see how he reached his conclusions . encyclopedias , of course , never meant to be read cover to cover . it is conceivable that the two met just that .
viewed from one perspective , this is just another case of emotion defeating economic logic . but our emotions are those algorithms , bequeathed by evolution by which we make most decisions , including political ones ; economic cost-benefit analysis that does not connect to our emotional compass does not move the needle . letting them in may produce a better team , but it wo n’t no longer be our team in our right team . at the heart of the matter is the sense of “ us . ” what does it mean to be an eu member , nigeria , iraq , turkey , switzerland , or any other political entity ?
the real gap is a narrower one : it is the arab world , not islam , which appears to be loggerheads with democracy . to be sure , islam and democracy are frequently supposed to be bitter antagonists . nonetheless , a careful study of the world ’s 47 muslim-majority states shows that islam and democracy can and will do co-exist . this conclusion is based on comparing muslim countries ’ “ electoral competitiveness . ” when a government sprang from reasonably fair elections and an elected government can fill up the most important political office offices , the country is perceived as “ electorally competitive . ”
understanding the history of synthetic biology matters , because recognizing the right paradigm has critical implications for how governments regulate it , which in turn influences technology ’s potential application and diffusion . thirty-five years ago , america ’s national institutes of health enacted overly risk-averse research guidelines using recombinant dna or technological engineering ” techniques . ( obviously , the same standards were excessively burdensome . ) other scientists noted that the organism was really just “ semi-synthetic , ” ” because the synthetic dna ( which comprises only about 1 % of the cell ’s dry weight ) was introduced to a normal , or non-synthetic , bacterium . on the other hand , swiss bioengineer fussenegger has rightly observed that venter achievement “ is a technical advance , not a conceptual one . ”
paris – with weak demand in advanced countries now impeding growth in emerging economies , including major players in asia and latin america , many are arguing that the era of income convergence has come to an unwind . that process began in the late 1980 ’s , and has continued unabated , save in years around the asian financial crisis of 1997-1998 . nothing could be further from the truth , either . the pace of convergence accelerated further during and after the global financial crisis of 2008-2009 : the aggregate average gap in per capita income growth accelerated to over four percentage points between the 2008-2012 period , well above two percentage points in the two decades that occurred during the 2008-2012 period . as i argued previously , convergence in emerging countries ’ real median incomes – in the aggregate , the ratio of advanced countries ’ incomes to the average – was likely to continue in 2020 .
that belief befitting the eu ’s two main political parties has fit in the direction of the eu ’s two major political parties . labour has sought to avoid a repeat of the constitutional debate , because any move aimed at involving federal institutions requires addressing the party ’s over-representation in the uk parliament . if we are to prevent the uk from rattling to pieces , we must change the path we govern . it is unfair to give further power to the scottish parliament , while continuing to grant labour , which controls the 41 scottish constituencies in the house of commons , disproportionate say over what will happen in england . as for the conservatives , the party has allowed its belief in the country ’s constituent parts to foreclose any debate over how to modernize the union .
that means reaching out to public figures to request on-line corrections , lodging grievances with norms , and delivering training to media organizations . it also means working with us tech companies to find ways to prevent the broader circulation of misinformation , including across international borders . and we should work with schools and other learning platforms to help teach people to identify false or misleading claims . at the same time , fact-checking organizations should focus not simply on dealing with fake information , but also on identifying the sources of robust information and pointing to their readers and followers . this is the approach taken by us organizations ; and , as small and under-resourced as these are , the impact is already becoming apparent .
london – one of the most dismaying features of today ’s international debates is that the threat to humanity posed by the world ’s 23,000 nuclear weapons , and those to build more of them , or it is only too willing to use them , has been consigned to the margin of policy . yet the us nuclear issues continue to struggle with public resonance , as well as policy traction . it would take a brave gambler to bet on the ratification of the american senate ’s comprehensive test ban treaty any time soon . us president barack obama absorbed global attention with his prague in 2009 at a compelling case for a nuclear-weapon-free world . and he did deliver on a major new arms-reduction treaty with russia , and hosted a summit aimed at reducing the vulnerability of nuclear weapons and materials for theft or diversion .
it seems self-evident that a developed economy requires prudently , ongoing investment in public goods . but the us state of infrastructure in the us indicates that many decision-makers do n’t share this view . a 2013 report by the american society of civic engineers has yielded the american pathetic sum of the d + for its infrastructure . the report concludes that the us will need a $ 3.6 trillion investment ( roughly one-fifth of the country ’s $ 88 high gdp ) by 2020 to encourage the quality of america ’s infrastructure by addressing the “ significant back-up maintenance [ and ] pressing needs for modernization . ” the report concludes that a $ 3.6 trillion investment ( roughly one-fifth of the country ’s annual gdp ) will be required by 2020 to boost us quality of the us infrastructure by addressing the “ significant backlog of across-the-board maintenance [ and ] pressing needs for modernization . ”
the second myth presumes that prohibition reduces the harm associated with drug use . the second myth presumes that prohibition reduces the harm associated with drug use . governments can act unilaterally and multilaterally to regulate commodity markets , but it is a mistake to view prohibition as the ultimate or maximum form of regulation . whatever is done is effectively unregulated , except by criminal organizations . global markets in cannabis , opium , and coca growers are essentially similar to other global commodities markets ; yet global drug-control policies operate on the premise that drug markets bear more in common with smallpox and other infectious diseases for which there is no demand .
for example , an avowed intention of the eu ’s common fisheries policy is “ to protect fish resources by regulating the amount of fish taken from sea , by allowing young fish to reproduce , and by ensuring that action is respected . ” this is for the best of reasons – fish that are caught when too little produces a tiny yield . moreover , a fish will have no chance of reproducing , undermining fish stocks entirely . as it stands , we have “ fished ” our stock , until few large , old individuals remain . to see this , consider north sea cod .
with the russian economy stagnating , owing largely to international sanctions and the kremlin ’s counter-sanctions , discontent will continue to simmer . but putin ’s ambition as a postmodern autocrat may be his achilles ’ heel . high-level official surveys insist that 86 % of russians , and that usually amount to 86 % , support it on everything from russia ’s annexation of crimea to its latest term as president . with the russian economy stagnating , owing largely to international sanctions and the kremlin ’s counter-sanctions , discontent will continue to simmer . the truth about what people really feel remains impossible to know .
but it probably was in hungary , the first country to seek an imf package that those practices were the most widespread . funding from the parent banks that in the earlier stages of the crisis helped provide liquidity to eastern europe ’s banking systems now seems more like a liability and possible source of contagion . at the same time , foreign banks ’ penetration effectively deprived the countries in central and eastern europe of their monetary policy tools , leaving them with little control over exceptionally rapid credit growth . yet this vulnerability was largely shaped , or at least accommodated by western banks . it was also west european financial regulators and supervisors , who , under “ house rule , ” were designed to discourage these excesses .
what is missing is a deeper examination of root causes , particularly underlying development challenges . in fact , there is evidence that an exclusively military response can be a waste of resources or even do more harm than good . add to that the mismanagement of ethnic and religious diversity , stirring up the great and growing cohort of unemployed and digitally-connected youth , and the continent offers ideal conditions for mayhem . emulating countries elsewhere , african governments reacted to violent extremism primarily by putting “ hard ” security first . but that strategy did not reduce extremist groups ’ potency or limit their reach .
the tobacco industry will now take its battle against australia ’s legislation to the world trade organization . whether to ban cigarettes altogether is another question , because doing so would undoubtedly create a new source of revenue for organized crime . yet it seems odd to hold that the state may fundamentally prohibit sales of the product , but it may not permit it to be sold only in packs that carry graphic images of the damage it causes to human health . the industry worries that the law could be copied in much larger markets , like india and china . moreover , wherever health-care costs go off to everyone – including the us , with its public-health programs for the poor and elderly – everybody pays out the costs of efforts to treat cigarette diseases .
during the 2004 hurricane season , the dominican republic , which invested in hurricane shelters and emergency evacuation networks , suffered fewer than ten deaths . in neighboring haiti , which was not prepared , 2,000 lives lost . the un framework convention refused to fund disaster preparedness efforts unless un member states demonstrate exactly how the disasters they feared were linked to climate change . according to a recent rand study , the united nations funding for disaster loss-reduction research in 2003 amounted to roughly $ 127 million – just 7 % of the sum invested in climate-change research for that year . climate-change policies are not the best way to minimize the impact of weather-related catastrophe .
notably , leaders focused on investment , trade , competition , and efforts to bring more women into the workforce ; the fairness of the international tax system ; and how to address corruption . specifically , leaders focused on investment , trade , competition , and efforts to bring more women into the workforce ; the fairness of the international tax system ; and how to address corruption . the brisbane summit ’s signature achievement was to leverage the just-announced us-china emissions-reduction target into formal g-20 support for “ strong and effective ” action to address climate change . ( all of this chastened australia ’s conservative host government , which struggled to block the issue even further ; the australian public , however , got delighted and promptly brought down prime minister tony abbott ’s approval rating in post-summit polls for that and other embarrassments . ) the g-20 meeting ’s stance represents the powerful challenge facing the rest of the world to reach a global agreement at the united nations climate change conference in paris in december 2015 . the g-20 ’s stance represents the powerful challenge facing the rest of the world to reach a global accord at the un climate change conference in paris in december 2015 .
if you ’re going to impress russian president vladimir putin or other foreign dignitaries , hosting them in such magisterial sets as versailles is sure to prove effective . but reveling in the country ’s monarchical history may be a dangerous one . can macron be learning from his mistakes and gaining the trust of french voters , who feel humiliated himself ? many of those who voted for macron may hope for a twenty-first-century bonaparte . but they now may be thinking more about louis xvi , the king , who paid his life for the faults of his predecessors .
and that is what the economy got in the form of unprecedented fiscal stimulus and unthinkable policy activism on the part of america ’s federal reserve . as they intervened , american policymakers consulted closely with their counterparts around the world , urging them to take supportive steps . and they did , culminating in one of the most successful periods in global policy coordination in history , involving both the advanced and emerging economies worldwide . for many , the global economic summit held in london in april 2009 marks the point , when the american economy was turning the corner . the change was so notable that many policymakers fell into the bear trap of a quick rebound , particularly given america ’s prior history of economic dynamism and resilience , only to be humbled by what had proved a protracted and complex recovery process .
the 2008 recession was triggered by the collapse of the housing bubble . housing wealth in the us fell by 34 % from its 2006 peak in 2006 and remains down by almost a third . the fear feeds on itself , and forecasts that stocks will lose the value of their value become self-fulfilling . at the same time , the us stock market has fallen by nearly 50 % since its 2007 peak and remains down by almost a third . this enormous waste of wealth has caused a large and persistent drop in consumption demand , causing unemployment to rise .
free and healthy news media are critical to a well-functioning democracy . as the media landscape increasingly lends itself to capture , political and corporate accountability will decline only . if we protect the latter , we must defend the former at all costs . that is why the center for international media assistance has just released a new report shining a spotlight on the phenomenon – and calling for solutions . the billionaire american casino owner sheldon adelson , for example , did not even buy a las vegas review-journal in 2015 or the capture of the israeli media for the money .
so far , merkel has had to deal with weak or nonexistent opposition . from now , she will require a trait that she has lacked so far : leadership and decision-making skills . moreover , the victory of the black and yeltsin defined an alternative : the red , dark red , and the greens . that will change very quickly , particularly in view of nato ’s troop build-up in afghanistan . the political camps of the old – the left and the right – are back for now .
the fourth challenge is to change the way we produce , transport , and consume our energy . this includes creating more efficient energy systems and increasing our investment in renewable sources ( which , one hopes , creates jobs in the process ) . we can also encourage households to consume less energy and companies to reduce the amount of energy that they waste . instead , we need to integrate transport , housing , and land use , encourage reliance on public transportation , and make our streets enjoyable and safe for walking ( especially for women and people with disabilities ) . fifth , we must reform how we manage our water and water infrastructure so that this precious resource can take just a few times and on city-wide scale .
ramallah – israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu certainly has reason to celebrate . he surprised almost everyone by securing a decisive electoral victory , winning a third consecutive term in office after his right-wing likud party gained a five-seat advantage in the knesset over its main rival , the center-left zionist union . the path netanyahu finagled that outcome – renouncing his commitment to the two-state solution to palestine and pledging to continue building settlements on occupied land – will almost surely have serious political and diplomatic consequences for israel . yet celebration is likely to be short-lived . in recent years , netanyahu ’s hardline stance has increasingly undermined israel ’s international credibility , while compelling the palestinians to living in the occupied territories that a genuine agreement with israel is impossible .
an early test of the scale of the kremlin ’s commitment to the minsk agreement should be whether it frees nadiya savchenko , ukraine ’s first-ever female fighter pilot . simply trusting the kremlin ’s “ goodwill ” would be reckless . of course , i hope that the new deal will last , at long last , to bring peace to ukraine . but such an outcome is unlikely , given that the agreement lacks any enforcement mechanism , such as automatic eviction by russia from the swift financial-transfer system , should it renege on any aspect of the deal . savchenko has been on a hunger strike in russia for more than two months to protest her patently illicit incarceration on charges even more ludicrous than those for which i was imprisoned .
why waste precious work time in aviation , safety checks , and await our luggage ? why waste precious work time in aviation , safety checks , and waiting for our luggage ? coming from research collaboration on inclusive growth with mastercard and the anonymized donation of data to the center for international development at harvard university , we are starting to shed some interesting light on this mystery . in ongoing work with dany bahar , michele coscia , along with frank neffke , we have been able to establish some interesting stylized facts . more populous countries hold more commercial travel in both directions , but the reality is that the figure is less than proportionally affected by their populations : a country with 100 % more of the population than another has only around 70 % more business travel . before anyone begins slashing travel budgets , let ’s attempt to understand why we need people to move people , rather than the information .
the price of liberty , americans feel fond of saying , is eternal vigilance . too many italians shrugged off their shoulders and flaws , figuring that it was about to leave soon , did little harm . but it did not walk away , leaving them with cause for harm . nor can america afford to make the same mistake again . when confronted with trump , there can be no discount .
beyond diminishing peru ’s international credibility as a “ climate champion ” – an image that some government members have been attempting to cultivate , the law jeopardizes peru ’s natural environment and economic-growth prospects . and , though the government recognizes the need for growth-enhancing reform , its approach is all wrong . tellingly , the president , ollanta humala , recently championed the legislative approval of a package of “ realistic ” procedures to reduce the red tape perceived to be hampering investment in the extractive industries , the very industries on which the economy should become less reliant . significantly , peru ’s ability to regulate land-use , set environmental quality standards , and rein in corporate misconduct through its environmental-impact assessments . the peruvian government is thus having a profound problem , and remains uncertain .
the problem for president dilma rousseff ’s government , herself imprisoned and tortured under the military regime , is that brazilians know precisely what is at stake . when pundits weigh in emerging powers like brazil and india , they typically point to the rise of the middle class and the booms in education and connectivity . but they rarely appreciate the texture of their democracy and civil society , the relative global newness of hard-won freedoms , and the intimate understanding of what tyranny , whether a homegrown dictatorship or a colonial administration , means to individual liberty . ( still , less ignore the role women ’s empowerment and feminism played in development . ) fifa and the government ’s response to brazil ’s recent protests sets a risk of what the paquim exhibit commemorates : the rebirth of freedom and democracy .
with that vote in place , how , exactly , can nato help in this ? nato is now a military-political alliance that sets democratic standards for new members and aspirants . directly , it can do nothing ; indirectly , it can do much . with this , how , then , can nato ’s assistance ? for its part , nato is no longer merely a military alliance .
a revolutionary delusion has crumbled , leaving behind only the tyrannical rule of a class of corrupt tycoons , effectively a mafia state that has bought the military ’s loyalty with massive cash bonuses and lucrative oil-smuggling and drug-trafficking deals . to be sure , the mafia ’s opponents are repressed , often brutally so . but trump was also quick to recognize the opposition ’s leader , juan guaidó , as the interim head of state , after guaidó , with widespread support among venezuelans , invoked a constitutional provision to challenge maduro ’s legitimacy . with the absolute number of political prisoners , maduro ’s venezuela has joined the ranks of china , cuba , and turkey . one might expect us president donald trump ’s administration to minimize maduro ’s repressive practices .
the pboc now faces a dilemma . if it loosens monetary policy further – by , say , cutting the banks ’ reserve ratio – the momentum for restructuring could fade ; and there is no guarantee that additional liquidity will flow to the real sector . the situation may not be dire yet ; but it is far from ideal – especially at a time when the chinese authorities are pursuing structural reform . indeed , with the weighted average interest rate on bank credit to nonfinancial enterprises remaining at close to 7 % , the pace of us economic growth has edged down from 7.4 % per year in the final three months to 7.3 % in the current quarter . yet , so far , lower financing costs have had limited impact .
drafted with a un resolution 181 ( which partitioned palestine in 1947 ) , such a motion would renunciation of the establishment of a palestinian state and a state for the jewish people based on the 1967 borders , with mutually agreed border adjustments and security arrangements . such a vote would also address international calls for bilateral diplomacy . rather than closing the doors , such a redefinition of the un ’s statehood bid would provide the palestinian leadership with a much-needed symbolic success , including a framework from which to restart negotiations – a longstanding palestinian demand . while such an approach would certainly crash short of maximalist palestinian demands , it would embrace the parameters , outlined in may by us president barack obama . it would also indirectly address israeli government ’s demand that the palestinians recognize the kind of jewish state .
given that ongoing changes in manufacturing resources have already fueled this trend , gates and some in the european parliament have proposed making robots taxed to pay for human services . robotics and ai will also raise profound ethical issues for liberal policymakers , particularly with respect to privacy and safety . whether this will be the best solutions right now is a topic of much debate ; but clearly , there will be a need for some sort of compromise . fortunately , there is a wider political consensus on this question than on taxation . last may , the european parliament proposed a voluntary code of conduct for engineers and others working in robotics .
“ everything , you know , does . ” so goes the refrain , in the famous argentine song , for example . but in fact , in argentina , everything stays the same or is becoming worse off . heraclitus ’s warning against bathing in the same sea is passing twice on us economic ministers , insisting on the bathing bathing regularly in contaminated waters . whenever they go bathing , they follow the same path , first raised concerns over what happens when argentina pays off its foreign debt and then inevitably pay back its debt under strong pressure from the international monetary fund and the u.s. .
shanghai – as the existing international order becomes more fragmented , robust global-governance institutions are key to solving the world ’s strategic , economic , and sustainability challenges . we ’ve seen this on issues ranging from syria to iran , north korea , terrorism , cyber security , asylum-seekers and refugees , migration , ebola , and the emerging humanitarian-aid financing crisis . while the un still has many strengths , it also has clear structural weaknesses . the un is not breaking down , but it is in trouble , especially as more countries treat it as a polite diplomacy afterthought and seek solutions to major global problems elsewhere . and yet rarely have the us and its existing institutions – including , most importantly , the united nations – been an frailer .
the decision to launch february 15 as a day of mass protest was seemingly going on the meeting of european social forum activists in florence in november last year . mass action depended on local organizations seizing the initiative , based on a loose global plan . and yet , in ninety days , these organizers turned over more than 5 million protestors around the world around the globe . the internet allowed for the rapid global dissemination of organizational plans at an extraordinarily low cost to the organizers . there are as many as three keys to the phenomenon as it was revealed , i believe , that the question is :
how better to memorialize this ruling than with a vigorous boom in jail ? according to america ’s southern high command spokesman , which oversees gitmo , hunger strikers are disillusioned , because they believe obama ’s pledge to lock up gitmo . how better to memorialize this decision than with a house 106 prisoners ( the precise number is uncertain ) who was neither attempted nor charged . indeed , they are cleared to leave , and it is only obama ’s failure to hold his promise , and america ’s congress ’s failure to legislate their transfer effectively , that keeps them there . according to america ’s southern command spokesman , which oversees gitmo , hunger strikers are disillusioned , because they believe obama ’s pledge to lock up gitmo .
it is important to note that these choices are not just china ’s ; the world also has choices that need to make . for example , by working together to reform the global trading system in ways that strengthen the dispute resolution and boost inclusiveness , countries could ensure that the benefits of increased chinese ( and other ) trade are shared broadly . technology flows and innovation : increased technology ( and knowhow ) flows between china and the rest of the world would stimulate the emergence of globally competitive , productivity-enhancing solutions ; reduced flows would undermine global productivity . at the same time , the world can decide how to facilitate more or fewer technology flows , which are increasingly subject to safety reviews . according to our simulation , the $ 8-12 trillion could be at stake , depending on the extent to which technology flows unleash innovation and productivity growth .
whereas greece remains mired in depression , iceland , which is not in the eurozone , has essentially recovered . using iceland as our measures measure , the cost to greece of not exiting the eurozone is equivalent to roughly 75 % of one year ’s gdp – and counting . it is hard for me to believe that if greece abandoned the euro in 2010 , the economic fallout would have amounted to even one quarter of that . to be sure , as the american economist barry eichengreen argued in his 2007 paper , technical considerations are making exiting the eurozone difficult , expensive , and dangerous . but doing so is only one side of the ledger , and it is the only way to do it .
there is only one way to explain the american administration ’s decision to exert such diplomatic pressure in favor of iran ’s favorite ally in iraq : obama ’s pledge during his presidential election campaign to disengage from the us in afghanistan in his own first term as president . in that , obama follows the example of us president george w. bush , who allows america ’s electoral agenda , rather than america ’s own – not to mention its national interest – to dictate iraq ’s policy . the fact that maliki , despite his incumbency , was unable to secure a second term only seven months after his election attests attests to widespread opposition to his continuing rule among iraq ’s shia political class . last march , as rumors circulated that he were losing the vote , maliki asserted that us state security would be in jeopardy if he disappeared , observing his responsibility to maintain order . when he lost , he demanded a recalculation , not as a candidate , but in his capacity as commander-in-chief .
when one believes a narrative , one acts in ways that make it coming true . the signal – in this case , the promise of balancing the books – creates reality . people start behaving as though the books were balanced , ignoring it . in fact , i am not convinced that osborne , himself , ever attached some of his importance to the signaling effects of his pronouncements . in his emphasis on merit , economics enters postmodernist territory .
this is a daunting moment in the fight against malaria . but it is also a moment of opportunity , and it is beginning to do so . in response to its dwindling donor funds , the ghanaian government has brought the country ’s private-sector leaders together to launch the ghana malaria foundation , which is currently working to fill urgent funding gaps , but will ultimately help lead a sustainable , home-grown effort to eliminate malaria from the country . for its part , novartis recently announced plans to invest more than $ 100 million in antimalarial r & d over the next five years to help contain emerging resistant strains of the disease . our focal point for us is now for the fini clinical trials to set two promising new antimalarial drug candidates .
worse still , factional conflict would undermine further development of a post-saddam iraqi identity . there are good reasons for iraq to shun lebanon ’s example in this regard . even in its best of times , lebanon muddles through with a politically dysfunctional government and an army operating in the shadows of a large shia-dominated militant organization . if the sunnis come to believe that shia and kurds intend to treat them as second-class citizens , they would have little stake in maliki ’s success and might start continuing to pursue their geopolitical interests through other means , provoking another surge of sectarian violence . otherwise , the country ’s diverse interest groups might , like lebanon ’s ’s ’s ’s feuding factions , turn over outsiders to negotiate solutions to their problems .
the us had trade deficits with 101 countries in 2015 , a multilateral problem stemming from a saving shortfall that can not be tackled effectively through the country-specific remedies . trumponomics seems likely to exacerbate america ’s saving shortfall in the years ahead . that ’s not to say that america ’s trading partners should let off the hook for unfair practices . but it does mean limited hope for resolving a seemingly chronic trade deficit – and the related erosion of domestic hiring traceable to those imbalances – as long as america does n’t start saving again . alas , that plot is about to thicken .
across the arab world , the fall of baghdad on april 4th comes to be seen as a day of shame , reminiscent of june 5th , after israel defeated the armies of three arab countries , conquest the west bank , gaza strip , and east jerusalem in just six days . meanwhile , supporters of former ba’athist regime in iraq and elsewhere are now busily defending the same old totalitarian thinking . arab intellectuals , and , indeed , the wider arab public , are now busy trying to analyze and understand the lessons of the us-led iraq earthquake . their tactic has been to obstruct an unequivocal review of the iraqi catastrophe by suggesting that any criticism of saddam ’s regime is tantamount to his support of the american occupation of iraq . for example , fahd al-fanek , a former ba’ath party member , is now a columnist for the jordanian daily newspaper al-ra earlier this year .
in principle , a country can run current-account deficits or surpluses continuously over several decades . and , while the recovery in the advanced economies has boosted exports , persistent overcapacity – combined with slower household-consumption growth than it did in 2012 – has caused investment growth , albeit still rapid , to decline to its lowest level in previous 11 years . meanwhile , a lower current-account surplus ( as a share of gdp ) might stem its heightened investment-income gap . given that china remains among the world ’s poorest countries , with per capita income amounted to less than $ 7,000 – its positions as the world ’s largest capital exporter signifies gross resource misallocations . but , with china ’s chronic surpluses , china ’s chronic surpluses are problematic .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . madrid – by july 29 , under the sustainability organization ’s global footprint network – humankind will have exploited the earth ’s resource budget for the next year . this “ earth ’s overshoot day ” has driven forward the astonishing two months in the last 20 years , and will arrive earlier than ever before . while humanity ’s increasing environmental impact manifests itself in many ways , climate change has the broadest and longest-lasting effects . carbon dioxide emissions from the burning of fossil fuels account for an estimated 60 % of the us ’s gdp footprint .
few people , even party members , still believe in marxism-leninism , let alone maoism . the communist government has been able to stay in power after tiananmen square , not only through brute force . and widespread discontent with official corruption and political oppression has been amply demonstrated across all regions of china in 1989 . an economic boom is the only source of legitimacy left behind by the one-party state . a semblance of political legitimacy , especially among the educated middle class , has been bought with the promise of greater wealth .
but , with pressing housing and infrastructure shortfalls worldwide , that is no longer sustainable . the world ’s 20 largest cities , 75 % of which are in asia , will need an estimated 36 million new residential housing by 2025 . moreover , an estimated 330 million urban households lived in substandard housing in 2014 , or struggled financially , owing to the cost of housing for housing ; that figure is projected to rise to 440 million by 2025 . even in advanced economies like the united states , more than 40 % of california ’s population can not afford decent housing at market rates . urbanization may be leveling off in many advanced economies , but it will continue in emerging countries .
berkeley – one need not be particularly good at hearing to decipher wikileaks being used during this year ’s election campaign in the united states . all of this fear mongering is scarier than the usual election-year fare . it is terrifying for people in foreign countries to conclude only that voters in the world ’s one superpower have become dangerously unbalanced . and it is frightening to americans , who until recently believed – or perhaps hoped for – that they were living in a republic based on the traditions established by george washington , abraham lincoln and teddy and franklin roosevelt . listen even briefly , and you will understand that mexicans and the chinese are working with wall street to forge lousy trade deals that rob american workers of their rightful jobs and that muslims are eager to blow everyone up .
italy ’s recent budget , which neither confronted pension issues nor the issue of fiscal reform , demonstrates this entirely . yet , if the unions are powerful or seniors are in their majority ( in italy the two coincide , because seniors are the majority in all labor unions ) , the exact opposite happens . italy ’s recent budget , neither confronted with pension concerns nor the issue of fiscal reform , demonstrates this wholly . in fact , professor nicola rossi , the economics advisor to prime minister massimo d’alema in the title of his recent book expresses the desire that we give “ less to fathers and more sons . ” put in these terms , the problem always solves the problem by giving more to those with the most political power .
oslo – education is a human right . and , like other human rights , that can not be taken for granted . around the world , there are an estimated 59 million children , and 65 million adolescents are out of school . more than 120 million children do not complete a primary education , and the rest are out of school . beyond these figures , children and youth are denied not just the right , but opportunities : the fair possibility of getting a decent job , escaping poverty , supporting their families , and developing their communities .
small-scale farmers , both women and men , are africa ’s largest agricultural investors . on average , they apply less than 10 kilograms of fertilizers per hectare , compared to about 140 kilograms of fertilizers in india . and , in fact , african farmers do more than twice as effective in reducing poverty as growth in other sectors . moreover , less than 5 % of farmland is irrigated , and improved crop varieties rarely use it . yet africa ’s farmers do meet significant barriers to achieving their potential .
clearly , most eu countries ’ governments are not . but why are developing-country governments dragging their feet ? are the risks so high to justify the suffering that might have been avoided ? clearly , the question is whether the decision-makers are prepared to use them . gm foods have now been on the us market in more than 12 years .
certainly , there are some good economic reasons why lenders have such insatiable appetite for debt . but policy-induced distortions also play an outsize role . the imperfect information and the difficulty of tracking firms creates significant obstacles to idealized risk-sharing instruments . of the roughly $ 200 trillion spent on global financial assets today , almost three-quarters are in some kind of commercial debt instrument , including bank loans , corporate bonds , and us government securities . the derivatives market certainly helps to spread risk more widely than this superficial calculation implies , but the underlying point stands .
for starters , italy ’s interests may not be aligned with those of the us . italy ’s exports to china currently amount to roughly € 13 billion ( $ 14.7 billion ) annually , while its imports total about € 29 billion . whereas italy has received some € 14 billion in chinese investment from 2000 , chinese firms invested € 10.5 billion in 55 bri countries in the first ten months of 2018 alone , signing contracts for bri projects worth more than $ 80 billion . moreover , a partnership with china could attract the additional capital inflows that italy ’s corporate sorely needs , given constrained lending by its banks . nonetheless , there are several compelling reasons why italy should not go down this bilateral bri route with china , but rather deepen engagement with it as part of the eu ’s 2016 strategy toward china .
after years of economic stagnation and even crisis , the public ’s patience has nonetheless worn thin . to be sure , many latin american leaders have lifted themselves out of power in recent decades on promises of leveling the playing field . and their interventions – including income redistribution , fiscal and monetary expansion , protectionism , discriminatory regulation , and capital controls – have brought some short-term benefits , especially to the poor . yet , such measures have often been marred by populism , and ultimately doing more harm than good . relying on commodity revenues to fund their social programs , these leaders have failed to diversify their economies or improve their economic fundamentals .
his articulate resignations made it clear that he opposed not only the syrian blunder , but also a pattern of behavior : trump ’s confusion among allies and opponents ; his willingness to hollow out friends , like the kurds ; and his trashing of alliances , like nato . members of congress have expressed outright fear of a trump presidency with no guardrails . even that doughty loyalist , senate majority leader mitch mcconnell , issued a blitz statement on thursday that he was “ distressed ” by trump ’s removal of mattis ( an important sign , many believed , by mcconnell ’s private dread of trump ’s impact on the republican party . the list of departures from trump ’s ’s administration is unprecedentedly long . even that doughty loyalist , senate majority leader mitch mcconnell , issued a statement thursday that he was “ distressed ” by mattis ’s removal of mattis ( an important sign , many believe , mcconnell ’s private fear , for trump ’s effect on the republican party .
visas are being withheld to anyone operating on the name of human rights with an unwanted side effect of damaging international business in china . the regime is set to prove to the world that china , again a world power , can stage a spectacular performances , with its voice heeded . the government has been strengthening its security system and has established a ubiquitous system of surveillance cameras . but china ’s top priorities are not simply to perpetuate economic growth . rather , it is to encourage growth while protecting its own monopoly .
he will need to become an internationalist left-leaning leader or an internationalist right-leaning one . he will need to become an internationalist , left-leaning leader , or an internationalist , right-leaning one . in its various dimensions , however , globalization will be backed by a popular majority , which will have to be combined with modernized social policies that provide effective assistance to those in need . traditional center-right policies would not easily be compatible with a strong internationalist bent . at a time of steady economic disruption , this will be all the more important .
but there is an alternative that could help appease an angry citizenry and mitigate the revenue loss stemming from outright prohibition on smoking : electronic cigarettes . given that e-cigarettes merely heat-trapping solutions to produce an inhalable vapor , releasing none of the carcinogenic tar of cigarette smoke would make them the ideal nicotine-delivery system for smokers searching , or forcing , it would reduce or halt their tobacco intake . as yanzhong huang of the council on foreign relations recently pointed out , “ if only 1 % of china ’s smoking populations turned to e-cigarettes , this would mean a market of some 3.5 million e-cigarette users . aside from being far less damaging than cigarettes , e-cigarettes are a homegrown product invented in china in 2003 . but , despite considerable progress in china ’s e-cigarette industry – in 2013 , the shenzhen province housed 900 device producers , up 200 % from 2012 and accounted for more than 95 % of global e-cigarette production – traditional cigarettes still dominate the chinese market .
the reason the un climate conferences keep failing is straightforward : their agendas – centered on voluntary , quantitative targets – are fundamentally flawed . agreeing to quantitative , a university-applied emissions-reduction target in the un conference is straightforward . yet countries automatically regard adherence to those targets as a kind of sacrifice : in attempting to slash their emissions by x tons , the us would lose y million jobs , and gdp would shrink by $ z $ 1 trillion . because there are no actual sanctions or penalty for noncompliance , when push comes to shove , governments can simply change their minds . even if the government tries to scuttle its commitments in , say , by imposing new regulations on high-emitting industries , it might not get the desired outcomes right .
while china provides only 4 % of the value added , it supplies core components to apple at a low price . apple can not build an iphone from scratch in the us , so it would have to seek alternative suppliers , raise its manufacturing costs considerably . this would give chinese smartphone firms an opportunity to seize market share from the major players . today , 80 % of all global trade comprises international supply chains . declining trade costs have allowed firms to splinter their production lines geographically , with multi-country goods processed and multi-country value added along the value chain .
in firms with high ceo pay slice , the probability of ceo turnover after a poor performance ( control over a ceo ’s length of service ) is lower . lower sensitivity of turnover to performance reflects a less willingness on a ceo ’s board to discipline a ceo . third , a higher ceo pay slice is associated with weaker accountability for poor performance . finally , higher-ceo firms pay slice are more likely to give their ceo a choice grants that turn out to be opportunistically timed . this way , financial economists view such luck-based compensation as a sign of governance problems .
any weighty occurrence , despite its diversity , provokes repercussions across the continent . to start , europe must foster a community of postcommunist countries by restoring civil society . if europe is to become one , if the european union is to take its place in the new postcommunist democracies – in the interest of all of europe – several vital tasks must be adopted within the framework of new democracies , as well as in europe and the atlantic communities . in europe , there is only one europe left , despite its diversity . for a living society can no longer be restructured from above .
when it comes to russia today , appeasement will not lead to peace ; on the contrary , a conciliatory approach will only prolong the conflict . the eu and the us must remain firm and unified in their policies toward russia . this approach offers the best chance of bringing an end to the current confrontation , and compelling russia to engage constructively with the west . of course , if cooperation is to work , russia needs to earn back the trust it has broken , demonstrating its commitment to uphold the treaties and international norms of behavior that it has agreed . the sooner the west convinces russia ’s leaders that it wo n’t come back , the sooner the conflict comes to an end .
today , greece ’s european creditors appear ready to abandon their solemn pledges on europe ’s irrevocability to insist on having to accumulate some crumbs from the country ’s pensioners . should they press their demands , forcing greece to exit , the world will never trust the longevity of the euro . at a minimum , the eurozone ’s weaker members will undergo increased market pressures . nine times out of ten , nothing really serious is happening , just a little distress against individuals or groups . but the us is running a tenth point … . ”
for many , france has long been the epitome of meritocracy . but , on closer inspection , things are not as simple as they are . for many , france has long been the epitome of meritocracy . it is certainly preferable to a plutocracy in which wealth determines status or the gerontocracy , in which age leads one to the top , or even an aristocracy , in which what counts are inherited titles and properties . the majority of those at the top reach not only the civil service and judiciary , but also in politics , business , and academia used to graduates of the renowned grandes écoles . so meritocracy seems preferable , at least at first glance .
most societies recognize a moral obligation to help ensure that young people can live up to their potential . but in america , more is spent on education for rich students than on educating the poor . as a result , america is squandering some of its most valuable assets , with some young people – bereft of skills – turning to dysfunctional activities . some countries are even imposing a constitutional mandate on equality of educational opportunity . at america ’s most elite universities , for example , only around 9 % of us students come from the bottom half of the population , while 74 % come from the top one-quarter .
for decades , le pouvoir has used oil revenue to buy relative public quiescence through massive subsidies . but those reserves have been concentrated in the south , and have thus been lost as south sudan ’s seceded in 2011 . the au has now threatened sudan ’s new rulers with suspension from the group unless they transfer power to civilian authority . even as sudan ’s military leaders succumb to the au ’s pressure , however , political stability is far from guaranteed . and , now , political stability , too , is gone .
istanbul – the challenge of ensuring adequate , nutrient-rich food for an expanding global population is a daunting one , especially given constraints on key resources like water and farmland . as it stands , the two leading approaches to enriching and reintegrating the world ’s food-supply of food are genetic engineering and industrial processing with additives and chemicals . but questions about such farms ’ fundamental economics , especially with commodity crops , have persisted . now , there is a third solution that is being initiated : vertical farming . academic studies have found that locally cultivated vertical farms – stacked greenhouses , which use the artificial light to expand crops , can provide significant savings , which could then pass along to consumers .
pensioners are some of the most powerful lobbies in democracy , and policymakers are loath to confront them on so fundamental an issue . still , we must confront squarely intergenerational issues at the heart of today ’s economic dilemmas . our pension systems , and our national budgets , must form the basis of an `` generational accounting '' that assures that economic risks spread systematically across generations . what this means is that pension and tax authorities must be designed to take better account of changing circumstances facing different generations , rather than making fixed promises -- which most likely can not be kept in the future -- of a given payouts in the future . what this does mean is that the problem is a political solution .
but what is proposed now will make investment even less attractive and more incentive to concentrate sovereign risk in the banking sector . this can only worsen europe ’s sovereign-debt problem and weaken its already meager growth prospects . a large number of steps have been taken in recent years to reinforce the banking system ’s regulation . lower funding cost to public debt seems like a net gain to society , because the government then saves on debt service to keep taxes low . but any gains from lower taxes more than offset those losses to the private sector – which , facing rising funding costs , will invest less – in turn lowering economic growth – and thus cutting government revenue .
the plo has succeeded in gaining european support for a unilateral palestinian declaration of statehood . the only impediment remaining to palestinian leaders is the american people . when palestinians asked mitchell for assurances that the us would support such a declaration of statehood if talks failed , mitchell responded that such a commitment would make negotiations pointless . instead , the americans have their own ideas about how to achieve a breakthrough , especially with israel , which the obama administration believes is now the major obstacle . to effect change in israel , the americans are launching various trials balloons .
the most notorious case concerning the body as property is that of john moore , a patient who developed hairy ’s cell leukemia , and had his spleen removed at a ucla school of medicine in 1976 . his physician patented certain chemicals in moore ’s blood without his knowledge or consent , set contracts , and sold the rights to the swiss pharmaceutical company to produce drugs from the “ mo ” cell line . the commercial calculus behind that business has sometimes provoked riots until the anatomy laws have allowed bodies of executed murderers and unclaimed dead to be applied , thereby reassuring middle and upper class individuals that their bodies will not . but few laws address the uses of cells , tissues or genes . these old tensions assumed new dimensions as the commercial potential of human tissue catch the entrepreneurial imagination .
in berlin , as in other large german cities , taxis sport the flags of their drivers ’ home countries , from angola to saudi arabia . france fans don not only their peoples ’ flags , but also a marvelous costumes evocative of its home countries ’ home countries ’ colors . but germans , somehow undashed about it all , simply retain an enduring celebration of one big soccer party , which together had its newfound friends from around the world . in fact , the flags of many nations fly in front of germany . the black , reds , and gold german tricolor adorns the entire country as never before ; yet almost nowhere are there nationalist undertones .
fortunately , as neighboring rwanda has proved , this is entirely possible . in 1994 , rwanda endured a brutal genocide , in which an estimated 800,000 people were killed in space just 100 days . thisharrowing experience has left behind destroyed assets , a failed state , and a traumatized population with little faith in local or international institutions.national basic immunization coverage has fallen to less than 30 % . fortunately , as neighboring rwanda has demonstrated , this is entirely possible . in the meantime , the epidemic ’s death toll has continued to climb .
it has existed as long as government had ; but , like the rest of us crimes , it has grown increasingly sophisticated over the past few decades , with devastating effects on the wellbeing and dignity of countless innocent citizens . at the anti-corruption summit in london on may 12 , world leaders – along with business and civil society representatives – will have a critical opportunity to pursue that recognition . to be sure , corruption cripples the development prospects of development , more than any other government in the world . it has existed as long as government has ; but , like the rest of world crimes , it has grown increasingly sophisticated over the past few decades , with devastating effects on the wellbeing and dignity of countless innocent citizens . at the anti-corruption summit in london on may 12 , world leaders – along with business representatives and civil society – will have a critical opportunity to pursue that recognition .
in fact , the street protests have intensified , fueled a new grievance . the protests began when the government attempted to enact amnesty legislation that would have overturned a conviction by former prime minister thaksin shinawatra , yingluck ’s brother , and ptp ’s founder , overthrown by the military in 2006 , on charges of corruption and abuse of power . ( it also would have superseded the homicide charges brought against the center-right democratic party , former prime minister abhisit vejjajiva . ) but yingluck ’s subsequent attempt to return on an amnesty measure failed to mollify the opposition . in fact , the yingluck government refused to accept a constitutional court ’s ruling against a bill to amend the senate from a semi-appointed chamber .
eu member states are now more divided than ever over the most fundamental issues surrounding the european project . the broad pro-european consensus of the past has given way to resurgent nationalism . new presidents of the european commission , the european council , and the ecb will be appointed by the european central bank , with a new high representative for foreign affairs and security policy to be elected . if nationalist euroskeptic parties are becoming the largest party in the european parliament , these appointments could represent a abrupt break from the past . moreover , east has become increasingly spitzenkandidat against the west and north .
freetown , sierra leone – donors like the world bank and the world health organization have often been urging developing countries to invest in their national health systems . the recent ebola epidemic in west africa highlighted the urgent need for stronger , more efficient , and more resilient health-care systems in the developing world . but , while haste to construct clinics and other medical facilities in even remotest regions may seem like a straightforward approach to ensuring universal health coverage , that has not proved true . indeed , in my frequent visits to the rural areas of my native sierra leone , i have seen more than a few health facilities that communities could do without . yet , at a time when countries have been rushing to build more clinics , resulting facilities typically tend to be hastily constructed and miss the facilities , supply , and staff required to deliver vital health services effectively .
to be sure , had wilson been alive today , he might well agree with trump on some issues , though his proposed solution would still be very different . for example , wilson would probably concur with trump , that the degree of openness in global markets today is excessive . likewise , he would probably advocate a contractionary fiscal policy aimed at advancing the common good , with higher taxes on the wealthiest us companies and households financing , say , infrastructure development , high-quality education , and universal health care . but wilson ’s solution would probably focus on developing and implementing improved regulations through a democracy-dominated multilateral process . it is truly problematic that american banks and firms can export capital , technology , and jobs as they please , with little or no regard for the domestic cost .
but , in march 2010 , in a move i trust was key to our subsequent growth , i announced “ englishnization , ” ” ” a plan to force english-speaking our corporate language within just two years . when i announced englishnization , just 10 % of the us workforce was proficient in english . the goal was to lay the groundwork for a global expansion under an industry that competes aggressively for internet-savvy talent . unsurprisingly , some on my team were apprehensive ; others , particularly those outside the firm , thought to be somewhat lunacy . yet , just seven years later , the titans of corporate japan are up for our advice in ways to build a global brand headquartered in japanese capital .
the ecb ’s decision to provide unlimited liquidity to banks does not solve governments ’ debt problems , nor is its intent to do so . but that would only weaken the banks ’ credit portfolios at a time when european regulators are too desperate to tighten them . tax hikes and public-spending cuts are still needed ; avoiding this reality is not around . europe ’s second vicious spiral runs from fiscal consolidation to slow growth and back to fiscal consolidation . but it at least precludes the debt problem to create banking problems , which , in turn , aggravate the unending debt problem .
so american eyes are turning elsewhere : to china with its 1.3 billion people and the economy growing at 8-10 % , year after and over to india , with its 1.1 billion people and 6 % annual growth . indeed , india now possesses some of the world ’s top engineers , it technicians , and medical professionals . this sterility and inertia make europeans less and less attractive to americans . price regulations and other ill-considered features of european policy contribute to the emergence of 60 % of the world ’s new drugs in the americas , compared to about 40 % just ten years ago . add economics to that recipe as much as it does .
but , as bolsonaro ’s promises underscore , indigenous societies have been pitted directly against loggers , miners , crop planters , ranchers , oil drillers , hungary , hungary , and other interlopers . when the devastating 2004 indian ocean tsunami hit , more than a quarter-million people died across 14 countries , but the two isolated andaman tribes , relying on traditional warnings systems , had suffered no known casualties . these tribes might be isolated , but their demise would have serious consequences . nonetheless , as bolsonaro ’s promises do underscore , indigenous societies have been pitted directly against loggers , miners , crop planters , ranchers , ranchers , oil drillers , hungary , hungary , and other interlopers . but they will likely die far more quickly , if we abruptly close contact with them , bringing together with us modern pathogens against whom there is no antibodies .
to be sure , it is not unreasonable that poland and hungary , whose sovereignty had largely usurped the soviet union , are especially susceptible to external efforts to shape their decision-making , and possess a stronger sense of national identity than other eu countries . but rejecting the eu will not insulate them from the very uncertainty that arises from globalization . that is why understanding their position in the eu today is so difficult . in my former professional roles , i witnessed as few others joining poland and hungary into the euro-atlantic institutions . i saw firsthand their peoples ’ eagerness and hope momentous .
no single country or group has created international maritime law in the way that it now exists . it is humankind ’s collective wisdom , cultivated over a great many years for the well-being of all . but , to what , exactly , does that mean ? should we reiterate the spirit that we have infused into international law over the ages and reformulate it as three principles , the rule of sea law becomes a matter of common sense . today , there are the product of humankind ’s collective wisdom , cultivated over the great many years for the well-being of all .
to be sure , effective solutions must consider the local context . in fact , sexual violence can take many forms ; understanding its potential purpose can help to predict and avert its use . for starters , the armed groups that use force as a recruiting tool are more likely to perpetrate egregious forms of sexual violence than groups that recruit through other means . moreover , people living in the shadow of armed groups with their genocidal goals have a higher risk of occurring sexualized violence , such as enforced pregnancies . when perpetrators of sexual violence are challenged on high-profile settings such as the un , it becomes difficult for individual states to ignore the demands of activists .
but europe can succeed in that task only if its various constituent cultures do not seal themselves off from the other . some values , long espoused by the union , should be relatively straightforward to convey . a decade ago , with the maastricht treaty , eu members agreed on the mutual respect of history , culture , and traditions of all their constituent peoples . a draft us constitution that recently failed to gain admission to the eu in the first round of negotiations not only promises to ensure respect for their cultural hegemony ; it obliges the union actively to protect , preserve , and develop europe ’s cultural and linguistic diversity . because an enlarged union will become a reality for just two months , it is imperative to develop concepts for cultural understanding that contribute to successful integration by the new members .
if successfully implemented , this agenda will likely reverse the global saving and consumption patterns that have underpinned large imbalances in recent years . to be sure , global savings and consumption patterns have been undergoing considerable change since the financial crisis , with both the west and china attempting to restore internal equilibrium . china has a responsibility to the saving side , while america disproportionately accounts for the consumption side , ultimately turning the chinese into america ’s asian lenders . doubling average household income by 2020 – a goal set on the chinese communist party ’s 19th congress in november – will likely release the $ 64 trillion renminbi ( $ 10.3 trillion ) in purchasing power , with china ’s enormous domestic market gradually becoming the new long-term driver of domestic and international growth . that model presupposes that china will develop domestic capital , rather than simply relying on foreign investment .
i do not like quotas either ; they run counter to my belief in meritocracy . after all , four decades of evidence has now shown that corporations in europe like the us are evading america ’s meritocratic hiring and promotion to top positions , regardless of how hard “ soft ” pressure ” ” are placed on them . but , when one considers the obstacles to achieving a meritocratic ideal , it currently looks as if a fairer world must be mandated temporarily . in my understanding of re-ding ’s reticence , i also run counter to my belief in meritocracy . when women break with the summit of corporate power – as , for example , sheryl sandberg recently did at facebook – they garner massive attention precisely because they remain an exception to the rule .
new delhi – in 2009 , when i competed in india ’s latest parliamentary election , i was something of a rarity . i had not been a “ professional politician , ” and only a man in office . had n’t even lived in india for decades , having spent my adult life working abroad for the united nations . i was n’t born into a political family ; i had no seats or political fiefdom to inherit ; and i had enter a race without a political “ godfather . ” on the contrary , every other candidates in my constituency , indeed , a majority of contenders throughout the country , have devoted their entire lives to politics , many of them since their student days .
even without a jamaica coalition , germany still holds a steady , liberal majority in the bundestag . the fdp has abandoned the talks ’ frustrations that , as its leader , christian lindner , put it , “ the four discussion partners have no common vision for modernizing the country or a common foundation of trust . ” yet , last but not least , the experiment failed . the same can not be said for the outside eu , where almost every other member state now stands with a “ 50-50 society ” ” : half the cosmopolitan , half of communitarian . in these countries , governments at whatever time represents whichever side wins the latest round in an ongoing culture war .
for starters , every country needs to define the crime of online child trafficking and integrate it into their domestic penal codes alongside harsh punishments for violators . likewise , all recruitment activity , advertising , and financial transactions linked to online child trafficking are expected to be criminalized . faith leaders , too , should educate and sensitize their followers . parents need to build trust bridges so that their children feel able to stay open about their concerns . raising awareness about the topic is also crucial – particularly in developing countries , where illiteracy , poverty , and a lack of age-appropriate sex education in schools can leave children even more vulnerable .
special attention must be devoted to rural regions and those with special needs , a often-overlooked youth segment . if more teenagers had access to sexual education and contraception , fewer girls would still have their lives suspended pregnancies . moreover , communities need to increase access to contraception and other sexual-health services ; one way to do that would be to revitalize or establish youth-friendly spaces and centers where information can share . these spaces should be opened after school and weekends staffed by the knowledgeable , sympathetic adults . these reform efforts are vital to improve guyana ’s lifetime prospects .
mckinsey estimates that 30-45 % of a working-age population would prefer to earn an income , whether out of primary or secondary terms , from independent work . in fact , many are low-income workers who would otherwise have been unemployed . this suggests that stronger economic – and thus more jobs – for growth would reduce the number of workers engaged in independent work . but , regardless of macroeconomic conditions , independent work seems likely to account for a rising share of work in the long run , owing to technological advances and individual preferences . while digital platforms for independent work are still done early in their development – and employing only about 15 % of all independent workers – they are proliferating and accelerating .
the demand to abolish censorship was one of the polish march ’s first political slogans ‘ 68 . ’” crucially , the protesters did not demand free elections ; they did not . in the this they were realists , but claimed a measure of civic control over the authorities , both in politics and in the economic sphere . demands for the freedom of assembly and the right to organize follow-up . one slogan after another was “ no bread without freedom . ”
new haven – in what could well turn out to be the ultimate desperation act , central banks are abdicating effective control over the economies they were given to manage . the fed ’s acceptance of negative interest rates , initially initiated in europe in 2014 and now embraced in june , represents a major turning point for central banking . formerly the emphasis has been placed on boosting aggregate demand – mostly by lowering the cost of borrowing , but also by deferring to the wealth effects of appreciating financial assets . just as the first two gambits have failed to gain meaningful economic traction for chronically weak recoveries , the shift to negative rates will merely compound the risks of financial instability and set the stage for the next crisis . new haven – in what could well have been an ultimate desperation act – central banks are abdicating effective control over the economies they were bestowed .
this , in turn , has emboldened greater reliance on highly polluting coal , the worst energy source , from the standpoint of global warming . as a result , demand has now fallen short of any binding constraint . indeed , permits prices fell below three euros every ton in april 2013 , rendering the emissions-trading market almost irrelevant . that would not have happened if the europeans ’ price mechanism still underpinned the climate-change policy . moreover , the eu ’s renewables policy has proved ruinously expensive .
obviously , it will be important for the fund to focus on global imbalances , not bilateral ones . china might want oil from the middle east , but those in the middle east , with so much wealth concentrated in so few hands , might worry more about gucci handbags than it does in china ’s massachusetts today . as a result , china can run a trade deficit with the middle east and a trade surplus with the us , but those bilateral balances imply nothing about china ’s total contribution to global imbalances . as a result , the challenge facing the imf is formidable . in a multilateral trading system , large bilateral trade deficits often balance bilateral surpluses with other countries .
asked about their feelings the previous day , most americans ( 55 % ) said they experienced stress during lots of a day ; almost half ( 45 % ) said that they felt worried too much , and more than one in five ( 22 % ) said that they felt anger too much . stress , worry , and anger all hit the us in 2018 . the us was the world ’s seventh-most stressed populations in 2018 , less stressed than greece , the philippines , and iran , but more stressed than uganda , turkey , and venezuela . those stress measures are in line with another notable finding : america ’s self-reported “ happiness , ” also declined in 2018 . asked about their feelings the previous day , most americans ( 55 % ) said that they had experienced stress during lots of it , almost one-half ( 45 % ) said that they felt anxious lots , and more than one in five ( 22 % ) said they felt deep cuts .
they must internalize a culture that values a firm that values a firm ’s high ethical standards of conduct . a written code – emphasizing the commercial advantage of ethical business behavior and its adverse consequences in falling short – is part of that effort , and can help to preserve and reinforce a culture ; but a code alone is not enough . employees need to understand instinctively what can be done and what should never be done . to this end , banks should transform their values and a culture integral to their hiring , firing , and promoting decision-making . constant reminders and repetition are essential , and the rule of law is vital .
islamabad – one hundred years ago , women in the united kingdom gained the right to vote ; today , the majority of women in the developed world are enfranchised . at first glance , pakistan appears progressive , too . the law allowed woman to hold the vote since 1956 , a nearly ten years after independence from britain . but in many developing countries , the resistance that british suffragettes faced a century ago , rooted in misogyny , persists . that is certainly true in pakistan , where a recent general election set for july 25 provides an ideal opportunity to advocate for change .
the ecb famously raised interest rates twice in 2011 , just as the euro crisis deepened and unemployment rose to double-digit levels , bringing deflation ever closer . in some cases , the outcome has been unexpected : some lending rates actually rose . none foresaw the crisis ; and , in very few of these economies , some semblance of full employment has been restored . it should have been obvious that most central banks ’ pre-crisis models , both formal models and mental-health models that guide policymakers ’ thinking – were wrong . in some cases , the outcome has been unexpected : some lending rates have actually risen .
its members , which included his nephew , mao yuanxin , his mistress , zhang yufeng , and jiang qing , were as ineffectual at governing like kim , yet after the disaster of the cultural revolution , antagonism toward them to the military and other state institutions was too widespread to last . they , and the gang of four ( jiang qing was a member ) , were soon ousted . nonetheless , mao ’s death did , at least in the end , put an end to the era of caesarism in china . having had no son left to succeed , mao appointed the five-person politburo to do the job . china ’s transit from caesarism to despotism , and then from marxism to capitalism , became fortunate to the people of china .
but reviving civil society – the many mutually complementary ways in which citizens participate in public life – is a complicated task , as the peoples of egypt and tunisia will find out soon . though communism could , each now and then , coexist with private property and , at times , private enterprise , it could never coexist with civil society . indeed , the most fateful assault to accompany installing any dictatorship has been an assault on civil society . we in ukraine learned this truth from the harsh experience of the communist era . in ukraine , freedom of speech was , on communism ’s fall , restored overnight .
even more to the point : would trump be quick to invoke the principle of collective defense under article 5 of the nato treaty ? then , imagine that america ’s intelligence agencies had already reaffirmed that an act of aggression was actually underway , despite putin ’s denials . finally , imagine how trump might respond . would he have called putin into question what is really about ? and would putin really make another “ unbelievable offer ” to help us investigators get to the bottom line ?
so 2019 could turn out to be another year of solid global growth . yet those outside risks miss the outlook for global growth necessarily grim . the baseline scenario for america today remains robust growth . europe ’s growth could conceivably be above trend , because it continues on its long , slow recovery from its debt-crisis in the early decade . and china ’s economy has been proving doubters wrong for many years .
at a conference last december , i asked sec chairwoman mary sheliro when her agency planned to reintroduce rule . that little victory turned to a major defeat for shareholders when the sec , rather than performing such analysis and reiterated the rule , chose to stall . i even offered to do the cost-benefit analysis for freedom . but she admitted that the sec had carried on numerous other items on its agenda and placed the issue on the backburner , a courteous way to say that the sec , like the heroic students in tiananmen square , had given an award under irresistible pressure . argued by the eugene scalia , america ’s supreme court justice antonin scalia was won in the american appeals court , dc circuit , on the technicality side – the sec ’s inability to conduct cost-benefit analysis ahead of time .
true , the fed ’s loose monetary policy has been insufficient to stave off a american recession , albeit one that remains so moderate that many doubt whether it qualifies as a true animal . and in western europe , too , gdp is now declining . the european central bank ’s response has been analogous to the fed , but less forcefully , with monetary policy easier than headline inflation rates would suggest is appropriate . in short , the major central banks on both sides of the atlantic have reacted to the financial crisis but have not been over-reacting to it . but these are also not normal times ; they are not .
when the opposition sought to challenge these inconsistencies , the eck abruptly declared kibaki the winner . days later , eck ’s head publicly acknowledged that kibaki ’s supporters pressured him to announce “ the results ” immediately , despite clear evidence to vote rigging . shockingly , he declared that he did not know who really won . likewise , eu observers announced that the us election tally had not met with basic international standards . elections are a disaster for kenya , but the american-led response is no less distressing .
it is also true that current global trade tensions have hit eurozone producers hard , particularly in germany . given that the market-based arrangements currently conflict with most other key economic data , little weight should be attached to them . moreover , a host of risk-related issues makes such indicators hard to interpret . unsurprisingly , therefore , surveys of households ’ s & firms and firms ’ inflation expectations forecast actual inflation more accurately . but it is harder for monetary policymakers to respond to the introduction of us trade barriers .
as a recent morgan stanley report highlighted , the pharmaceutical industry ’s current success rates are insufficient to sustain large inner r & d organizations , make the sector ’s current operating model financially nonviable . drugs that make it to market must fund the cost of the failure of those that have not made it to the market . but it is the fact that pharmaceutical companies continue to hold assumptions about the frontiers of pre-competitive collaboration that need to be challenged . on first sight , it seems counter-intuitive that companies wish to share data and provide potentially away their competitive advantages . but this presupposes that the possession of such data actually imply a competitive advantage , and that a closed-operating model is financially sustainable .
despite its tightening economic noose – the us has imposed sanctions on all firms that do business with iran ’s central bank and the european union plans to impose sanctions on iranian oil exports in late january – many of the country ’s nuclear experts now estimate that iran is very close to enriching enough uranium to build a bomb . though the iranian government might most likely be dissuaded from using a nuclear weapon , the price of a nuclear-armed iran might well constitute a regional arms race – a nuclear-armed saudi arabia , possibly followed by turkey and egypt . nuclear weapons , components , and materials in a region that is already volatile and violent , and that determines world oil prices , are an appalling scenario . trying to compel iran to back down with steadily mounting sanctions has not yielded results . the market has already adopted the measure of last week ’s tensions , driving the prices of some of oil contracts to their highest levels in eight months .
if applied , bank capital will become scarcer , credit flows slower , and bank fees higher in pretty stable finance countries , simply because others have spent a fortune supporting their financial systems – and because the european commission never misses an opportunity in reunifying rules across the eu . the same is true for instance in the derivatives trading system . post-crisis eu harmonization in the eu means that it now will be more costly everywhere in the eu to insure against currency volatility or unexpected changes in interest rates . that levy , strongly backed by those countries whose financial-sector sectors are in post-crisis tatters , has been hard to swallow for eu member states that have not intervene to bail out their banks . the levy is an easy way to spread the political and financial cost of a crisis from some to all eu members .
learnup , a san francisco startup that attracted funding from some of silicon valley ’s largest venture capital firms , establishes partnerships with employers to offer online training modules to connect job seekers to specific jobs , primarily entry-level positions that do not require college degrees . employers foot the bill , with the expectation that learnup will help them recruit higher-quality applicants . already , the california community college system is working with learnup to give students access to the skills required to fill available local jobs . at & t receives scholarships through a partner nonprofit institution , and gives paid internships undercover up to 100 graduates . and , indeed , once the training has been completed , learnup helps them secure interviews with prospective employers , which already comprise a few large companies .
portto – the military coup that overthrown egypt ’s first democratically elected president and resulted in arrests of the muslim brotherhood ’s leaders across the country presents an enormous danger not only for egypt ’s democratic transition , but for the democratic hope of the entire arab world as well . to be sure , the muslim brotherhood was also a victim of its own errors , particularly the failure of morsi and his government to reach out to the secular opposition , elements of which contributed to his election . president mohamed morsi ’s government struggled to address egypt ’s inherited economic and social crises in the face of the formidable public expectations created by the country ’s 2011 revolution , whose protagonists had sought not only liberty , but also economic development and social justice . the fact that the coup was conducted with massive popular support is a sign of enormous difficulties that the muslim brotherhood faced during its first turn in power . a morsi ’s government seemed unable to understand that a slim electoral majority is insufficient , particularly nowadays .
paris – earlier this month , pascal simbikangwa ’s trial charged complicity in the rwanda genocide , in which 800,000 people were killed between april and july 1994 , began in paris . and french military intervention in the central african republic has not put an end to severe inter-communal violence there . unfortunately , the mass killings in africa have continued to take place . in south sudan , africa has been ’s newest state , the massacres of civilians continue , particularly around the libor town . and french military intervention in the central african republic has not placed an end to the region ’s severe inter-communal violence . still , ironically , even as such episodes continue to play out in africa , perhaps on a greater scale than elsewhere in the world , the continent has also become a beacon of hope .
one shudders to think what will happen if europe does not pull out of its current funk . certainly , europe would lose its traction as a badly needed counterweight to america ’s world economic policy . fortunately , europeans would probably not wait so long to see moving ahead again . europeans might not mind that right now ( one sees more obama t-shirts in europe than the us ) , but perhaps they might not be so happy should george iii come along . moreover , with growing concerns about the sustainability of america ’s fiscal policy , europe has a massive opportunity to play a far larger role as a reserve currency .
the third arrow is not a traditional industrial-policy-based approach . on the contrary , it emphasizes labor-market reform , deregulation , and a reduction in the corporate-tax rate . one logical solution would have been to integrate more foreign labor with the japanese economy . a key component of abe ’s growth strategy is to expand the labor force , an important challenge , given that japanese society has been aging rapidly . that implies that it has been inadequate to concentrate on growth so long as the deflation gap narrowed far – that is , until now .
what is certain is that the vacuum left by sharon ’s removal from politics is all the more striking in view of the images of chaos emerging from gaza that israel vacillated and the collapse of the palestinian authority ( pa ) before our eyes . nor will the emergence of another providential figure come easy . not all exceptional periods generate their bonapartes , and this will probably be a good thing , because exceptional leaders may provide the illusion that all problems have solutions that is far from true . what is certain is that the vacuum left by sharon ’s removal from politics is all the more striking in view of the images of chaos emerging from gaza that israel vacillated and the collapse of the palestinian authority before our eyes . many in the us believe that such an impossible wager can be fulfilled merely as providential man , with all hope – and dangers – that this entails .
still , the uk has played a leading role in designing key eu policies , including on measures relating to the single market , overseas development aid , trade , and climate change . the uk is in no position to block other eu member states from deeper eu integration , given most other member states ’ political will to push ahead . so , while the cameron government ’s endorsement of deeper eurozone integration is welcome , the eu can not and will not be shaped from outside and in accordance with british interests . the uk is in no position to block other eu member states from deeper eu integration , given most of the other member states ’ political will to push ahead . indeed , at the end of last year ’s negotiations over a “ fiscal compact ” under the proposed new government , cameron should already demonstrate the difficulty of exercising a so-called “ national veto . ”
it is already apparent that the obama administration did not know what it was bargaining for when , without considering what to come next , it called in 2011 for assad ’s removal . had the administration really not predicted that assad , like his father , would respond to the popular uprising of his violence ? in july of that year , robert s. ford , america ’s ambassador to syria , sent last september to the sunni town of hama , where assad ’s father ordered his massacre 30 years early . according to the us state department , the point of the visit was to “ [ express ] our deep support for the syrian people ’s right to assemble peacefully and express themselves . ” but they will fault america for not comprehending a larger war .
beijing – after years of intervening to manage the renminbi ’s exchange rate , china ’s central bank , the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) , is under increasing pressure to float its currency . but striking the right balance between loosening its grip on the exchange rate and maintaining monetary stability will not be easy . all economics students learn the mundell-fleming model , according to which the economy can not maintain a fixed exchange rate , free capital movement , and an independent monetary policy simultaneously . if a country with a fixed exchange rate and an open capital account tightens monetary policy to contain inflation , rising domestic interest rates gives market participants an incentive to borrow in foreign currencies and convert them into the domestic currency for domestic investment in domestic assets . the resulting capital inflows , if persistent , would generate upward pressure on the currency , force the central bank , in its bid for exchange-rate stability , to intervene by selling domestic currency , especially us dollars , until interest rates and money supply returned to its previous levels .
america ’s presidential nominee hillary clinton has an even more targeted proposal : a $ 15 tax credit to the profits that us firms distribute to workers over the next two years . by providing temporary tax relief , that scheme would help companies to offset the administration ’s administrative costs of establishing a profit-sharing program . a tax credit might also foster changes in corporate culture , by spurring the use of the bode-level discussion not only of profit-sharing benefits , but also of sharing information and decision-making authority with employees . simply put , the stagnant incomes of most us workers are undermining the demand side ’s economic growth ( to discourage household consumption ) and supply-side ( via adverse effects on educational opportunity , human-capital development , and innovation ) . to curb the cost and prevent abuse , profits totaling more than 10 % at the top of the employee ’s wage would be discounted ; the overall sum offered to individual firms would be capped ; and safeguards against the substitution of profit sharing for pay , raises and other benefits would be laid to establish .
moreover , selective repression has become harsher . most russians see no connection between prosecution for key figures and the authorities ’ credibility . on the contrary , people seem to identify with putin ’s message that the establishment is ultimately tackling corruption . but it is the message to russia ’s shaken elites that is all the more pertinent . and that message is straightforward : no one is safe from prosecution , even if – like abyzov and ishayev – they retired from a public service , and no longer have any impact .
and it explains how inadequate metrics have led to deficient policies in many areas . improved indicators would reveal the highly adverse and possibly protracted effects of the deep post-2008 slump on productivity and wellbeing , in which case policymakers may not have been so enamored with austerity , which lowered fiscal deficits but decreased national wealth , rightly measured , even more so . last week , at the oecd ’s sixth world forum on statistics , knowledge , and policies in incheon , south korea , the group published its report , beyond gdp : measuring what counts as economic and social performance . the new report emphasizes a few topics , like trust and insecurity , that were briefly addressed by mismeasuring our lives and explores a few others , like inequality and sustainability , more deeply . it also backed the commission ’s successor , the high level expert group on measuring economic performance and social progress .
it is for these reasons that we had seemed frozen for past generations , or two whenever we contemplated reforming our system of financial regulation . and it is why , even in the face of a severe financial crisis , we remain as frozen today . seventy-three years ago , john maynard keynes thought about financial-sector reform and regulation from the vantage point of the first three purposes , and found himself “ moved on … mak [ ing ] the investment permanent and insoluble , like the marriage … ” but he promptly drew back : the fact that each individual investor flatters himself that his commitment is a ‘ liquid ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ( though this may not hold true to all investors collectively ) calms his nerves and make him much more willing to run risk .... ” moreover , for keynes , “ [ t ’s ] game of professional investment is proving intolerably boring and over-exacting to anyone who is completely exempt from the gambler ’s gambler ; whilst he has to pay to that propensity to pay for that propensity toll … ” ” ” ” ” ” moreover , ” [ t ’s game of professional investment is intolerably boring and over-exacting to anyone who is totally exempt from the gaming instinct ; whilst he , who has to pay for that propensity to this propensity to run the appropriate toll … ” ”
perhaps the most outrageous example is america ’s $ 0.54 per gallon import tariff on ethanol , whereas there is no oil tariff , with a mere $ 0.5 per gallon tax on gasoline . this contrasts with the $ 0.51 per gallon subsidy that american firms ( the huge proportion of which go to one firm ) receive on ethanol . as a result , us foreign manufacturers can not compete unless their costs , at $ 1.05 per gallon , are $ 1.05 per gallon lower than the treatment of american producers . massive subsidies have meant that the u.s. has become the world ’s largest ethanol producer . yet , despite this enormous advantage , some foreign firms can still make it up for the american market .
the results have not only generated a conflict between us federal legislation and state legislation ; they are also signaling a shift in us attitudes away from similar actions toward same-sex marriage . the results have not only generated a clash between us federal legislation and us state regulations ; they are also signaling a shift in us attitudes that did not dissimilar to that related to same-sex marriage . just as importantly were president barack obama ’s reaction to colorado and washington votes – the two states that he won easily in his reelection bid . on other issues , notably , immigration – obama rejects claims of states ’ rights and insist on a federal institution . moreover , the topic remains highly sensitive : while public-opinion polls in 2012 indicate for the first time a small majority in favor of legalization , its opponents remain vehement .
the political upheavals of 1999-2000 gave rise to a new “ democratic ” constitution , which became an invitation to civil war . regional and religious tensions were on the rise in the wake of houphouet ’s death , as well as aggravated by a new constitution that enshrined in ethnic discrimination . the result has been catastrophic , as ethnic rivalries have sharpened . about four million northerners have been denied political participation or land-ownership on the grounds of offspring of neighboring countries . whatever else says about such french-backed authoritarian regimes , hindsight leaves open no doubt about the benefits of social stability seen in the ivory coast during the period until the 1980 ’s , when france remained paternalistically engaged with its former colony .
in other words , access to knowledge stops with a civil right . policy trustworthiness determines who can teach and study what about a country and its distant past . these are highly educated people who know that knowledge is power ; they have a clear agenda , and that education in europe is europe is the responsibility of national governments , rather than brussels-based institutions . in the long run , they probably also want the state to grant political loyalists the right to produce and transfer knowledge . in other words , access to knowledge ceases to be a civil right .
dubai – globalization , as many have noted recently , is in retreat . mark leonard , the european council ’s director for foreign relations , and vice chair of the world economic forum ’s new global agenda council on geo-economics , notes that interdependency , formerly an economic boon , has now become a threat as well . despite all of its undeniable advantages , it exposed governance and governance problems that exposed the inequities of national governments and international institutions . that left people everywhere , the rich and the poor alike , struggling to cope with problems – from failed states to malfunctioning banks , from over-fishing to under-employment , from climate change to economic stagnation – to whom globalization has contributed but can not address effectively . fragile institutions have instilled by a political backlash and a risk of disaster on many fronts .
london – for two decades , chinese diplomacy has guided the idea of a country ’s “ peaceful rise . ” today , however , china need a new strategic doctrine , because the most remarkable aspect of sri lanka ’s recent triumph over the tamil tigers is not its overwhelming nature , but the fact that china has provided president mahinda rajapaska with both the military supplies and the diplomatic cover that he needed to prosecute the war . without that chinese backing , rajapaska ’s government would have no wherewithal to ignore world opinion in its offensive against the tigers . so , not only has china become central to any aspect of the global financial and economic system ; it has now demonstrated its strategic effectiveness in a region traditionally outside its orbit . on sri lanka ’s beachfront battlefields , china ’s “ peaceful rise ” was just completed .
should france break its downward trajectory in the euro , and gipsic countries would have lost some € 545 billion ( $ 390 billion ) , almost half of the aggregate sum mentioned by the bundesbank , given that the bundesbank has been doing most of the net payments in the name of gipsic countries reflected in target balances . indeed , germany has the highest exposure by far among countries rescuing the eurozone ’s crisis-stricken countries , and is thus helping to ease austerity more than any other country . when alexander hamilton , the first american finance minister , mutualized us state debts in 1791 , he thought that this would cement the new american nation . but the mutualizing of us debt implied enormous moral hazard effects , inducing states to borrow excessively . george soros underestimates the risks that debt-mutualization would create for europe ’s future .
hong kong – looking back in 2016 , there might seem little to celebrate . from the perspective of global health alone , the year has emerged as one of an unrelenting tragedy . hopes for a respiratory syncytial vaccine have been dashed . there has also been the proliferation of antibiotic-resistant microbes , or “ superbugs ” the continued revival of yellow fever , and the reemergence of polio in nigeria that had previously been declared polio-free . there has also been one of the proliferation of antibiotic-resistant microbes , or “ superbugs ” all the continued revival of yellow fever and the reemergence of polio in nigeria , something that had previously been polio-free .
during the new deal era , regulators comprised the functional equivalent of such a requirement in charters for banks and thrifts . but these mandates were removed during a wave of deregulation in the 1980s , with banks moving rapidly away from cheap financial services and toward higher-profits activities . when it comes to securing equity in banking , these precedents and existing institutions point the way forward . history also shows that financial exclusion represents a persistent problem whenever universal service requirements become absent . this dynamic can be seen in the trend toward bank consolidation and branch closings , which have accelerated since the 2008 financial crisis and diminished access to services in low-income communities .
after all , the israeli government not only permitted the supposedly unapproved outposts to exist ; it also delivered them with water , electricity , the internet , and its military protection . it is not hard to see what palestinian negotiators had to feel as being driven by the massive israeli settlements on territory that they had been working to contain within an independent state . after all , this had n’t been lost on all of america ’s national leaders . in april 2014 , us secretary of state john kerry told the american congress that direct talks between israel and palestine would go “ right ” when israel announced 700 new housing units for israelis in the west bank . by december 2016 , obama had been allowing the un security council to vote on that trump-derided resolution declaring israel ’s settlement construction a “ major obstacle ” to a two-state solution .
new haven : throughout europe and america , men in the black tie and women in kenzo and armani gowns become more summer pilgrims to places like bayreuth , glynne , and glimmerglass . once again , the state coffers are tapped to encourage these privileged retreats . perhaps , then , there is also time to ask once again a basic question : should the state continue to ladle out generous subsidies to such an elite activity ? consider a thing of indisputable beauty and spiritual depth : roman catholics . does its grandeur really mean that the state should subsidize it ?
this contrast underlines the fact that the great achievements of eu integration took place in that no-man ’s – land that lies between its complete national independence and its total loss of sovereignty in a confederation . but foreign policy , as the us has known it , is basically a manifestation of a nation state or a superpower . it is not surprising , therefore , that foreign-policy integration has yielded little progress . on both defense and warfare , unpredictability implies the prospects for young men to die in action . so a key characteristic of us foreign-policy integration is that governments can not know in advance what they are letting in .
i am thankful to the donors with us from the start , but now we need additional international support . one thing i hope will become clear at the oslo education summit in october is the need to help middle-income countries affected by fragility and conflict . without additional support from the international community , our vision will not be realized – despite strong political will and rigorous planning . lebanon often struggles to attract financing through its status as a middle-income country ; but that label is misleading , because it ignores the severe structural weaknesses that pre-date the syrian crisis or the huge share of the resident population composed of refugees from syria , palestine and iraq living in abject poverty . the us faces a shortfall of $ 100 million for this new school year .
what does this really tell us about human nature and our capacity to live either prudently or ethically ? part of the problem , of course , is that us resolutions force resolutions to do just things that we are not likely to do otherwise . only anorexic does settle to consume ice cream at least once per week , and only workaholic will resolve to spend more time ahead of tv broadcasting . so , instead , we use the new year ’s occasion to try to change behavior that may be the trickiest to change . that , in turn , makes failure a distinct possibility .
a second conclusion to be drawn from the current situation is that the fed has now overstated the strength of america ’s economy for 11 consecutive years . if each year of the fed ’s forecasting period were a “ coin toss , ” we would now issue eleven heads in a row , and zero tails . the odds of that happening , too , are one in 2,048 . elementary mathematics dictates that credible forecasts should at least overestimate half the time and undershooting half that time . clearly , the fed needs a profound view of its forecasting methodology and policymaking processes .
such is the nature of the imperfect reliability of psychiatric diagnosis . the question , then , is not whether some patients previously granted the diagnosis do not appear to have it upon re-interview , but rather how many . any study that tries to determine whether psychiatric disorder is over-diagnosed will find that some conditionality patients with conditions can not have it re-interview . how high the percentage should have been had before suggesting that over-diagnosis is a major problem and some value judgment in the future . but we think that an over-diagnosis rate of more than 50 % crosses a clinical significance .
in many previous banking crises , it was a country or a region that was hit hard ( argentina , japan , and ecuador ) . this time , virtually every economy suffers substantially , and the banking crisis is global . indeed , during the great depression of the 1930s , it was common for western intellectuals to turn toward communism and central planning as a hoped-for panacea . policymakers will continue to throw whatever ammunition they could find at the challenge , but it will take time for deleveraging from a boom to run its course . in many of previous banking crises , it was a country or region that was hit hard ( argentina , japan , ecuador ) .
washington , dc – steve bannon ’s wide-ranging travels in europe this year have n’t drawn n’t as much attention as it should , given that he is america ’s key theoretician american president donald trump ’s key brand of nationalism . and yet , one wonders how an “ america first ” go-to ideologue can pursue his political project anywhere except in america . in fact , bannon now wants to build a federation of european nationalist parties . as more countries transform themselves into “ nationalist autocracies ” and “ illiberal democracies ” ” under strongman rule , nationalism has become the ideological common denominator . by joining forces with french far-right leader marine le pen ’s marine le pen , herself an open supporter of russian president vladimir putin , bannon seems to have in mind a new type of “ neo-nationalist international . ”
diplomatic immunity from local prosecution was an idea that sprang straight from another incident , nearly a century ago involving the arrest of a russian aristocrat , andrey matveyev , representing peter the great in london . as a result , the mission broke down . one famous incident in the late eighteenth century was lord macartney ’s british mission to the imperial court of china ( cpc ) . macartney refused to conform to china ’s imperial protocol by decreasing to kowtow to the emperor because he was not obliged to do the same to his own sovereign . this , too , was very much a case of “ keeping face ” : the chinese expected tribute ; the british lord had insisted on his king ’s equal standing .
assume that the interest rate on ten-year treasury bonds remains unchanged for the next five years , and then rises from 2 % to almost 5 % . here is how arithmetic works for the investor , who rolls over ten-year bonds for the next five years , thus earning 2 % more each year than it would by investing in us treasury bills or bank deposits . if not , the loss in bond prices would more than wipe out the extra interest it earned , even if rates remained at or above their level for five years . but when the interest rate on the ten-year bond rises to about 5 % , the concern about about the bond ’s price falls from about $ 100 to $ 69 . during those five years , the investor earns additional 2 % annually for the cumulative gain of 10 % .
change needs to start in the transport sector , accounting for more than half of current oil consumption – a share that is likely to rise in the future . the g-8 countries should therefore agree not to license any new , oil-powered cars from 2025 onwards . that decision would be directed not toward individual mobility , but against the dissipation of a scarce resource that is more urgent in order to produce synthetic materials . only the world ’s political and economic heavyweights , the major industrialized countries that remain by far the largest hydrocarbon consumers , can initiate such a change on a global scale . after all , political leaders should not privilege any particular form of technology .
ithaca – us president-elect donald trump has once again succeeded in turning facts on his head . as part of a broader effort to take china to task for supposedly “ ratifying ” the united states economy through unfair trade policies , he has now reneged on his accusation that the country manipulates its currency in an effort to get the advantage of its exports to the us . such statements are as dangerous as they are unmoored from reality . make no mistake : trump ’s accusation of chinese currency manipulation is not backed by the facts . on the contrary , over the past two and a half years , the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) has been intervening in currency markets to its opposite purpose : preventing the renminbi ’s value from falling too sharply against the dollar .
new delhi – at the end of last month , when two indian states and national capital held to ransom by rioting mobs protesting their spiritual leader ’s conviction on two counts of raping tiny girls , many indians have found themselves confronting a series of painful truths about their country . the leader who has spurred these protests to be gurmeet singh , one of the more prominent of a few “ godmen , ” ” ” ” or self-reported spiritual leaders who flourish across india . the flamboyant , jewelry-bedecked singh calls himself baba gurmeet rahim singh insan – a compound of hindu , muslim , and sikh names , followed by a word for “ human ” in hindi , punjabi , and urdu . and he has a reputation for sexually exploiting his female followers against him . in 2002 , two of these followers mustered the temerity to press accounts .
on the other hand , some american policymakers continue to believe that iran would abandon its enrichment program if only the european union imposed unilateral sanctions . but a clear-headed analysis by iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad ’s behavior indicates that eu sanctions lead to more trade diversion , with china , russia , turkey , or dubai benefiting from reduced levels of european exports to iran . some imports would , of course , become more expensive to iran ; but the economic effect of such sanctions would remain limited . politically , ahmadinejad certainly would not miss his chance to take advantage of unilateral action for propaganda purposes , arguing that iran has conflict not with the international community , but with his imperialist states intent on depriving his country of its technological progress . for these reasons , europeans favor a new security council resolution even when its measures are weaker than what the united states or the eu could unilaterally impose .
postwar japanese democracy was influenced in the 1950 ’s and 1960s by an intellectual elite that knowingly sought to distance japan from its wartime nationalism . abe and his allies attempt to quash that influence . no one could identify more favorably with the political elite than abe , the grandson of a wartime cabinet minister and the later prime minister , and the son of a foreign minister . and yet , he shares right-wing populists ’ hostility to liberal academics , journalists , and intellectuals . his efforts to revise japan ’s pacifist constitution , restore pride in its wartime record , and discredit the elitist ” mainstream media , such as the left-of-center newspaper asahi shimbun , received him the praise from donald trump ’s former strategist , stephen bannon , who challenged abe for trump before trump .
ensuring high-quality output and local consumers ’ loyalty requires keeping their workforces happy and maintaining a positive public picture . by contrast , african countries often see firsthand the worst sides in multinational companies : energy , mineral , and precious metal companies are going where resources are , not where it is comfortable to work . as one former mining director in the region tells me , “ the goal has always been simple : get assets out of the ground and out of the country as cheaply and with as fuss as little fuss as possible . ” but sub-saharan africa ’s potential relationship with global corporations need not be so restricted . because the customer counts at home and there is little processing in country to run , why should companies upgrade local skills , or otherwise help the host economy ?
the boom mentality spread to los angeles , new york , and sydney around 1997 , to paris in may 1998 , to miami , moscow and shanghai in 2001 , and vancouver around 2002 . these and other cities have been booming pretty much ever since ; prices in most are up at least 50 % in real terms since 2000 . now growth in home prices , though , has been weakening in some of these cities , too . the first great city to boom was london , which started around 1996 . that has been a major homebuyers ’ windfall , but has hurt anyone planning to buy .
what is surprising is that government control mechanisms have been largely effective . the government employs host of new legal regulations , the shadowy internet police force , and powerful hardware-based national information filtering system . its control also relies on demography of the internet users , most of which belong to china ’s economic elite , and embraces the internet as part of a newfound consumer lifestyle , rather than as an instrument for political or social revolutions . but it is also spurring profound social change , rooted in rising individual rights within society , something has strengthened -- and boosted – -- not only by rapid growth in the economy , but also by rapid diffusion . after two and a half decades of market-oriented economic reform , chinese citizens have increasingly come to understand how to protect their own economic and social interests through a combination of rights .
this european polity lacks a second crucial element of madison ’s scheme : diversified political representation at the federal level . as a result , nationally elected representatives bear a responsibility to make crucial eu-level choices . no single political party or politician in brussels can claim to represent europe ’s citizens linked interests , because none has to compete for europe-wide public support . individual nation-states , regions , and special-interest groups are represented within the eu . but , while common europeans cause daily , they do not have europe-wide political representation .
obama originally had a startling team of economic advisers , including lawrence summers , christina romer , the austan goolsbee , and cass sunstein . and yet america ’s presidential campaigns generally neglect the discussion of advisers or intellectual influences on them . this time , too , one has not mentioned the name of any deep economic thinker or of any particular economic model . though the president-elect may have changed , one would have thought that the candidates would acknowledge them , if only to suggest where their own ideas come from ; after all , realistically what they are selling are their capacity to judge and manage expertise , not their own abilities as economists . is there anything more to the point , really that one might ask some us president ?
for another , they will need to make their own , distinct donations . they can not simply wait for america to move , nor can they always seek to placate washington ’s preferences . after all , only the ingrained habit of playing second fiddle to the us prevents eu members from clearly and loudly distancing themselves from israel ’s repressive interferences on the west bank and gaza , even though such a stance will help bolster the commitment of arab states to the coalition against terrorism , in order to provide useful shove to american diplomacy . in short , they will need to make their own efforts to sustain a common effort . what this distinct contribution might be not difficult to define .
earlier this year , i participated in a rare disease daily program in california . the topic was the obscure but large collection ( more than 70 ) of the illnesses caused by a specific type of genetic error – one taking place in the machinery of cells that chemically attaches sugars to proteins and lipids . little is known about what causes mutations that give rise to these congenital disorders ; and treatments exist for only a few . as a result , medical professionals often know very little about the symptoms and biology of these diseases . one reason for this is that low numbers of patients make the study of illnesses and testing drugs hard .
while corruption is more a symptom than the cause of ukraine ’s problems , the corruption culture must be uprooted before conditions can improve . one might assume that this simply requires a strong state , with the means to root out corrupt politicians and businessmen . markets become rigged , justice becomes transactional , and politicians sell themselves to the highest bidder . in ukraine , even universities are compromised : degrees are regularly bought and sold . in time , this “ culture of corruption ” will permeate society .
in israel , obama will be confronted with a country that , in fact , has been moving , but not toward a missing center . nor should anyone expect a moratorium on settlement expansion , either . on the other hand , settlements offer cheaper housing than are available in israel , thereby resolving one of the country ’s main economic problems . the new government ’s fragile equilibrium only to reinforces this sober interpretation . “ red lines ” in israel do a way to redistribute into lines drawn in the sand , which is then rendered invisible at the slightest wind .
japan had a similar experience with japan in the 1990 ’s , the country ’s so-called “ lost decade . ” at that time , japan ’s budget deficit soared after the country ’s property bubble burst , triggering economic stagnation . as a result , the fiscal revenue ratio to total expenditure this fiscal year slipped to less than 50 % for the first time in japan ’s postwar history . despite the weakness of japan ’s fiscal position , the market for japanese government bonds ( jgbs ) remains stable , at least for now . if the government continues on that path , many expect next year ’s budget deficits to widen further .
the mugabe regime has been guilty of outrage , after outrage . its catalogue of crimes includes : steals of the 2002 election that enabled mugabe to hang on to power ; torturing and normalizing supporters of the opposition movement for democratic change ; the transformation of a fertile , prosperous country once considered africa ’s breadbasket to a place where half the population hardly survives foreign food handouts ; and , exemplified by its assaults on daily news , the suppression of critical voices . likewise , the mugabe ’s regime has committed outrage after outrage . at the end of august , the heads of state of the thirteen members of the south african development community ( sadc ) – including mugabe and president thabo mbeki of south africa , a leading regional power – met in the dar es salaam , tanzania , to spell out the challenges ahead . among the 54 paragraphs of the summit final communiqué , two dealt with zimbabwe .
and the american constitution allows individual states to function as what judge brandeis called democracy laboratories by experimenting with innovative policies , without placing the rest of the country at risk . state and local governments have been leaders at the establishment of public primary and secondary education systems , as have state colleges and universities . a 2014 pew study found that while only 25 % of respondents were satisfied with national policy direction , 60 % were satisfied with governance in their own communities . state and local governments were leaders in establishing public primary and secondary education systems , as were state colleges and universities . there is a long and very rich history of successful experimentation , building around the world .
in other words , price stability reigns in the eurozone . should higher nominal ( that is , the inflation-driven ) growth replace the debt-driven growth ? europe must aim for sustainable , non-inflationary growth and the creation of competitive employment . europe must aim for sustainable , non-inflationary growth and the creation of competitive employment . a current 0.3 % inflation rate is attributable to the significant fall in commodity prices and painful but unavoidable adjustment of costs and prices in the peripheral countries .
the implication , then , is that speculators can drive up prices and increase their inventory holdings even as total commercial inventories stay little to change . additionally , the oil market speculation can generated “ echo speculation ” – ” whereby ultimate users purchase refined products in advance of protection against future price hikes . they then account for their delivery on their premises , so that overall refined inventories rise , but that increase is not part of the reported commercial inventories . showing that speculation is responsible for higher prices is always difficult , as it tends to occur against a background of powerful fundamentals . thus , record-high speculative prices have probably caused some bunker traders to relax their inventory , but those releases may have been bought by speculators who are now active lessees of commercial storage capacity .
furthermore , the disintegration that the region has already witnessed – and will undoubtedly continue to witness – will reverberate beyond the arab map with the creation of a sovereign kurdish state . such a state , whether emulating de facto or with widespread formal recognition of it , will have an enduring effect on the borders of the arab world ( syria and iraq ) and the broader middle east ( turkey and iran ) . but both states are showing up lack of the domestic revenues needed to sustain their institutions . if they wish to stay in the next century , they are likely to be subsumed under a union backed by a larger , stronger , and more established nation-state . the arab spring has overthrown some regimes , albeit not for the rest .
we tend to think that new types of risk-management products like the “ novel ” types of insurance or financial derivatives will mainly interest the wealthy , or at least the relatively affluent . so risk-management , by smoothing out income bumps may be extremely important in alleviating the effects of poverty . it is important to recognize that the world ’s poorest people are not the same people from year to year . good fortunes and bad fortunes alternate randomly , and the poorest are especially vulnerable when misfortune – like a hurricane in a fishing village – strikes . in fact , new risk-management products are underway for some of the poorest people in africa , asia , and latin america .
today , everyone deals with life and hardship individually ( a new word in our daily vocabulary ) , regardless of any kremlin desire to “ make life uniform . ” indeed , even the russian uniformity is different in many nowadays . that postcommunist boris yeltsin nonetheless declared allegiance to a hazy collective sense of rossiyane ( russia ’s citizens ) , deprived – or freed , it is the object of vantage point of opinion – russia of all collective life ; both the true life of shared hardship and the imaginary , semi-life examples of communist solidarity . that disconnect is nothing new ; there have always been tsars and serfs , politburo commissars , and proletariat . in novgorod i saw lukoil ( one of russia ’s large private oil companies ) petrol stations .
a new system in which “ reversible bonds ” have replaced quotas and desirability screenings would reduce such competition , while mitigating the risks to destination and source countries . reversible bonds would act as an insurance mechanism for both parties , shielding destination countries from the detriment of fiscally motivated immigration , and protecting source countries from the cost implied by the loss of a talented workforce . greater international cooperation would maximize immigration ’s economic benefits – and thus the benefits that it benefits . but , even with the potential benefits of collaboration in controlling illegal immigration , most eu countries – including the us and the eu – are seeking to reform their own immigration laws unilaterally . they view cooperation as infeasible , given the natural competition between destination and resource-source countries for the most productive workers .
real ( inflation-adjusted ) gdp per capita is lower in much of the north atlantic per capita than it was in 2007 ; in greece , the us economy has shrunk by an estimated 23 % . every downturn , after all , comes about to an end . germany , europe ’s top-performing country , has recorded the miserly 0.7 % average annual growth rate over the past six years . the mark of the austerity policies embraced by many governments is that they made the downturn far deeper , and longer , than is necessary , with long-simmering consequences . the mark of the austerity policies embraced by many governments is that they were making the downturn far deeper and over it otherwise would be .
warsaw – twenty-five years ago this month , poland ’s people were stunned by the choice of their compatriot , cardinal karol wojtyla of cracow , as the pope did . here , the prominent writer , was “ poland ’s second christendom . ” some were horrified , others wept with joy . but , even in our euphoria , we failed to anticipate how much the new pope would change not only poland but the world . his first return visit to his native country soon afterwards showed to all that the world would be a new pope ’s power .
yau and leung were barred from taking their seats in the legislative council . while hong kong ’s courts certainly could have handled the matter on their own , according to the “ one country , two systems ” frameworks , hong kong is assured the independent court system , in addition to choosing its own legislature , an enraged china has intervened . in an extraordinary move , china ’s national people ’s congress standing committee stepped in to “ clarify ” on article 104 of the fundamental law , stating that all of the oaths taken by office-holders must be “ “ solemn , ” accurate , complete , and sincere . restraint , after all , is not a leninist virtue ; it is not the rule of law . to most hong kong ’s lawyers , the display of political authority did not represent simply reinterpretation of old rules , but a move toward making new ones .
prodded by groups like the workers rights consortium and the ethical trading initiative , some corporations are promising to pay living wages , open their factories to monitors , and even grant employees a voice in the workplace . at the same time , however , human-rights sensitivity has done nothing to staunch trade unionism ’s worldwide decline . the international labor organization reports that labor unions are in retreat in most nations . at the same time , the international labor organization reports that trade unions are in retreat in most nations . corporations markets their soccer balls and other goods with a “ guaranteed : manufactured without child labor ” labels .
responsible sourcing is a duty , not a choice . the united states has already entered its next logical step . the 12 member countries of africa ’s international conference on the great lakes region committed to similar compulsory requirements . the us securities and exchange commission calls for companies using tantalum , tin , gold , or tungsten in their products to investigate these rare-earth elements , and to mitigate risks in their supply chains in line with oecd guidance if they are discovered to originate in certain conflict-affected or high-risk areas . that is , just as it should be . the 12 member countries of africa ’s international conference on the great lakes region have committed to similar compulsory due-diligence requirements .
most of their productive and financial assets are held by foreign firms , just when most of the rules that govern their economies have been fixed by the eu . they will conclude that they may have it both ways , sustaining the benefits of economic integration without losing the capacity to infringe on their own citizens ’ rights or using eu financial transfers to help build patron-client relations and boost their standing over the state . illiberal cee nationalists such as hungarian prime minister victor orbán enjoy the same assertion that they are defending national sovereignty from bureaucrats in brussels . cameron ’s initiative plays right in their hands , allowing orbán and his allies in neighboring countries to declare anathema any drift toward an ever-closer union , and a strengthening of federal authority and legitimacy . yet the truth is that cee countries have little to lose in the way of sovereignty .
one concern among critics is that the shift to a green economy will in principle monetize nature , exposing the world ’s forests , fresh water , and fisheries to disagreeable behavior by central bankers and traders , whose flaws helped to trigger the financial and economic turmoil of the last four years . indeed , deep and pervasive market failures – in terms of carbon emissions , biodiversity , and ecosystem services – are accelerating environmental risks and ecological scarcities , undermining human well-being and social equity . that is why the link to the governance and institutions of rio +20 is just as crucial as the shift to a green economy : the markets are human rebuilding that requires the rules and institutions to guide not just its direction , but also its boundaries . as the recently released report entitled “ toward a green economy : the course of action on sustainable development and poverty eradication ” shows , a market economy as currently constituted has brought about capital misallocations on an unprecedented scale . systemic crises in food , fuel , and finance that came onhead in 2008 , and that is continuing in many countries today , have their roots in an economic paradigm that has failed to account for the value and its array of life-supporting services .
by that standard , does my unqualified criticism of hamas ’s rocket attacks make it an islamophobe ? an italian cardinal who admittedly spoke intemperately was charged with using the language of holocaust denial . coincidentally , the lethal attack on gaza also arrived in may that a clutch of america ’s most distinguished would-be middle eastern peacemakers had published books about how the task should be tackled properly . by that standard , does my unqualified critique of hamas ’s rocket assaults make me an islamophobe ? it all sounded a bit like a series of job applications – the warfaced by president barack obama ’s ear .
a similar political imperative lies at the heart of sinhalese chauvinism that has made a abrupt return to public life in sri lanka . the religious and ethnic passions of the sinhalese have been fueled during the final , bloody push that finished sri lanka ’s quarter-century of civil war with the tamil tigers in 2009 . but , instead of seeking reconciliation with the tamils following their defeat , then-president mahinda rajapaksa has continued to play on ethnic hatred as he subverted sri lanka ’s democracy . rajapaksa ’s abrupt defeat by the democrats and tamil political parties in last january ’s presidential election – an outcome that he subsequently sought to annul – was supposed to end both his career and race-baiting politics . yet the former president is now undermining a furious comeback bid , and could well win a snap parliamentary election scheduled for august 17 .
these are not isolated examples of children caught in the crossfire ; this is what happens when classrooms become the actual targeting of terrorists who view education as a threat . schools all over the world , from north america to northern nigeria , now need safety plans to ensure their pupils ’ safety and grant trust to parents and their communities . ( indeed , boko haram is literally translated to mean that “ fake ” or “ western ” education is “ forbidden . ” ) these are not isolated examples of children caught in the crossfire ; this is what happens when classrooms become the actual goals of a terrorists who view education as a threat . in fact , in at least 30 countries , a concerted pattern of strikes by armed groups , with afghanistan , colombia , pakistan , somalia , sudan , and syria the worst affected .
modest seed funding can go a long way toward helping refugee-owned businesses drain off the ground . global organizations are tapping tech-savvy refugee networks and hiring it for online work . some , like tent , encourage companies to hire refugees and integrate them into the supply chains where they live . meanwhile , some companies and organizations , including wework , ikea , and starbucks , are developing innovative approaches to hiring refugees . more scholarship opportunities for refugee companies , together with increased funding for schools within and outside of refugee settlements , would also be welcome .
next month , representatives from more than 190 countries will meet in sharm el sheikh , egypt , for the fourteenth meeting of the conference of the parties to the convention on biological diversity ( the un biodiversity conference ) . while there , they will consider whether to write off the brakes on gene drives , thereby ensuring that farmers and indigenous peoples take full advice before such technologies are unleashed within their communities . the other approach , drafted by the un human rights council , calls for farmers to share their existing insights and seeds with one another , as well as safeguarding local ecosystems . one hopes that the international community will uphold its obligation to safeguard food supplies , as will farmers ’ rights around the world . that is why it is increasingly dismissed in favor of the agro-ecological model based on the principle of “ food sovereignty . ”
the emotional manipulation of the mise-en-scene surrounding chávez ’s death seems certain to translate into his electoral support for his gray successor , nicolás maduro . buying time to secure his own political future , venezuelan officials carefully stage-managed chávez ’s illness and eventual death , even suggesting near an end , while he has been undergoing a complex and agonizing cancer solution , that he still has been “ walking and exercising . ” there is not , in fact , clear just how long venezuela ’s hugo chávez was in fact dead before his passing formally signaled . the information power vacuum was reminiscent of the secrecy surrounding the deaths of stalin and mao , and the practice in the ottoman empire of keeping sultan ’s death a secret for weeks until the succession has been settled . but will this stoop to create a chávista lineage ?
at the same time , governments in developed countries have a role to play in influencing the nature of technological innovation . too often they subsidize labor-replacing , capital-intensive technologies , rather than pushing innovation in socially more beneficial directions , to augment rather than replace less-skilled workers . nor can the demanding quality standards needed to supply global value chains easily be met by replacing “ manual labor ” machines . in fact , such policies alone are unlikely to make a lot of difference to the developing world . for them , the main impediment will remain that existing technologies allow insufficient room for factor substitutions : employing overskilled labor instead of skilled professionals or physical capital .
berkeley – on january 20 , 2017 , us president-elect donald trump will assume almost three million fewer votes than his opponent ; and he will work with the republican senate majority , whose members have won 13 million fewer votes than their democratic opponents . trump will also start his presidency with an approval rating below 50 % . only the republican majority in the house of representatives , headed by house speaker paul ryan , has any claim representing a numerical majority among the more than 55 % of americans who voted in the 2016 election day . this is unprecedented – or “ unpresidented , ” as one of his semi-literate tweets put it ( before dismissing it ) – in the history of such ratings . in fact , the government of the world ’s oldest democracy is not democratic .
the s-400 dispute is merely the latest example of how us military procurement matters has created a rift between turkey and its western allies . in turkey ’s view , its western partners have not done enough , through technology transfer and joint-production regimes , to accommodate its burgeoning defense industry . on the other hand , the chinese , and to a lesser degree , have made russian firms more receptive to such turkish requests as part of the latter ’s military procurements . more broadly , turkey and the west are undergoing a political , strategic , and geopolitical decoupling , reflected most recently by each side ’s differing threat perceptions and alliances in the syria conflict . and domestic defusing interests , for example , is only part of the story .
underdevelopment in many southern southern african countries , faring poorly in their struggles to remain viable in a globalizing world , creates conditions of desperate poverty , ecological collapse , and rootless , unemployed populations beyond the control of atrophying state systems . as the us embark on the still-new millennium , although it now seems ironically clear that tomorrow ’s potential disorder might be due in no small part to yesterday ’s colonial order . this is not to say that our response to the dangers emerging from the legacies of the past must be rooted in the past . there is a greater need than ever for innovative , forward-thinking approaches to global governance . we will not create a better world in the 19th st century by forgetting what happened in the 19th century and much of 20th .
in the bilateral negations with moscow , us officials have been offering four specific bmd collaboration projects : · the bi-national and multi-national expert studies on how bmd might affect russia ’s nuclear deterrent and which steps can be taken to minimize any problem ; · the expanded nato-russian bmd exercises that build on earlier collaboration – disrupted by russia ’s august 2008 nato-russia war and that rehearse how deployed nato and russian forces can jointly defend against missile-defense threats ; and · the underlying legal framework to support these and other cooperative projects . · the bi-national and multi-national jointly manned centers , where russian personnel can see the non-threatening nature of us and nato missile-defense activities ; · the underlying us legal framework to support these and other cooperative projects .
his and congressional republicans ’ attempts to replace the affordable care act ( “ obamacare ” ) and to curtail the growth in medicaid spending have have been all but unsuccessful . under these conditions , trump ’s biggest and boldest policy proposals will most likely run into budget constraints . still , he has ruled over any amendments to be made to social security . and a temporary increase in us defense expenditures will revert to inadequate levels after this fiscal year . even though the tax package that trump signed into law last december front-loaded tax cuts and now helps the us economy grow , us government revenues have so far failed to respond to that growth .
indeed , europe ’s divided attitude toward the israeli-palestinian conflict exemplifies its poor track record on achieving a foreign-policy consensus . granting observer-state state state status to palestine would remove the table prospect for a “ one nation ” solution , which has lately gained momentum among experts . but these sound reasons to support palestine ’s bid will not stop the eu from delivering a split over voting , with reverberations reflecting not only throughout the arab world , inviting accusations of hypocrisy , but also impeding european efforts to reset relations with countries in the middle east and north africa . the eu has always supported the two-state solution , despite challenging demographic realities , not to mention the need to preserve the jewish state ’s identity . a split vote thus undermines european interests , delivering an unequivocal blow to european foreign policy in a volatile geopolitical environment .
a bit of transparency inevitably leads to more of it . with google , people will start expecting answers to all of this . on the other side , every time someone in china googles something and gets the answer – a product ’s good and bad points , the details for someone the government does n’t like , one must wonder , “ why ca n’t i get that type of information about everything ? ” moreover , in countries where google is criticized for blocking access to information , it highlights the information ’s absence when something is blocked , letting people know that it exists but can not get access . rather than demand an end to censorship now , an impossible dream – google is working to make that happen by eroding government control of information .
r2p recognizes that sovereign states have a responsibility to protect their people from genocide , ethnic cleansing , crimes against humanity , and war crimes ; that other states have a responsibility to help them do so ; and that , if a state is plainly failing ” to protect its people , the wider international community has the responsibility to step in with “ timely and decisive action , ” which might in an extreme case include military action , if ratified by the un security council . while no result has been formally agreed or made public , several themes have emerged from the beijing meeting . first , there was widespread acceptance that the “ responsibility to protect ” ” ( r2p ) doctrine , unanimously agreed by the united nations general assembly in 2005 , is here to stay . taken together , they offer reason for confidence that it might embrace an international consensus so long miss in syria about how to cope with the toughest mass-atrocity cases . true , some chinese scholars remain inclined to argue that the entire r2p enterprise , particularly its penalty of military action on exceptional occasions , is only “ old neo-interventionist wine in a new bottle . ”
by focusing on these problems , i am not trying to belittle globalization ’s benefits . global integration has brought tremendous benefits : the international division of labor that is so clearly demonstrated by the theory of comparative advantage ; dynamic advantages like economies of scale and rapid diffusion of innovations from one country to the next ; a bit less easy to demonstrate through a static equilibrium theory ; and noneconomic advantages like the freedoms of choice associated with the international movement of goods , capital and people ; and the freedom of thought implicit in an international movement of ideas . but global capitalism is not without problems ; we need to understand these better if we want the system to survive . so the global economy should be thinking in a way that we know as the global capitalist system . these benefits , i believe , can be sustained only by deliberate and persistent efforts to correct and contain the system ’s shortcomings .
making matters worse for trump , mueller ’s widely admired mueller in effect recommended that congress commit the impeachment process . ( nixon was an unindicted co-conspirator in the watergate burglary cover-up , whereas trump is one in new york case , involving his pre-election participation to silence two women with whom he had sex liaisons shortly after his birth as his son , barron . ) trump has been portraying the report ’s findings as completely oversolving him ( “ “ no collusion , no obstruction ) , despite the report explicitly stated that this was not the case . ” mueller explained that the controversial us department of justice had intended to assist president richard nixon , bars impeachment of a sitting president . this is neither in the constitution nor the rule of law .
should russia recognize abkhazia ’s independence , saakashvili might be tempted to respond militarily to prevent his country from unraveling . another risk in the south caucasus is that russia ( with armenian support ) will recognize nagorno-karabakh ’s self-proclaimed independence from azerbaijan . russia ’s supposed asean peacekeeping troops ” in abkhazia and south ossetia , georgia ’s other secession-minded region , have , in fact , protected their rebel governments . russia has also been enforcing a full georgian trade embargo on hopes of weakening the resolve of its pro-western president , mikhail saakashvili . renewed conflict in abkhazia would not only bring the risk of open warfare with russia , but strain relations with armenia , as there are near 50,000 armenians in abkhazia who support the breakaway government .
europe must make some progress on the first opportunity if it is to seize the second , and that means bolstering the eurozone . on this front , macron has already offered ambitious proposals : a separate eurozone budget , a charge for eurozone finance minister ; and a eurozone parliament ( composed of members of the european parliament and national parliamentarians ) to hold the finance minister responsible . before germany ’s new coalition government was formed , the franco-german working group was established to consider macron ’s proposals . now that merkel is in a new administration , we will have learned how far germany is willing to go to promote greater eurozone cohesion . in the short run , the new government seems unlikely to endorse macron ’s proposals in its present form .
the financial crisis also prompted some european , african , and asian governments to establish new ndbs and other countries to expand theirs . and big ndbs can have a big impact , particularly on emerging economies . moreover , the recent establishment of two other big mdbs – the asian infrastructure investment bank and the new development bank established by the brics countries ( brazil , russia , india , china , and south africa ) – will contribute further to a more balanced public-private mix in development finance . as a result , ndbs ’ total assets reached roughly $ 5 trillion in 2015 . and big ndbs can have a big impact , particularly on emerging economies . moreover , the recent establishment of two other large mdbs – the asian infrastructure investment bank and the new development bank established by the brics countries ( brazil , russia , india , china , and south africa ) – will contribute further to a more balanced public-private mix in development finance .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime ; but it does not all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present , not leave for many years to come . as i highlighted earlier this year , the conservatives ’ plan would essentially fix one big issue – the rundown of britain ’s diplomatic service – by framing a much larger problem : britain ’s loss of soft power .
the answer might affect egypt ’s political future , and the situation of countries throughout the region . as many commentators have pointed out , from the islamists ’ standpoint , morsi ’s removal looks strikingly like the algerian military ’s overthrow in 1992 ( with american backing ) of an elected islamist government ; the turkish military , a near-soft coup ” in 1997 , when it pressured an elected islamist government out of power ; and america ’s reversal of its support for “ arab democracy ” after hamas won the elections in gaza in 2006 . more broadly , military interference with civilian politics for whatever reason weakens the processes , institutions , and checks on state power that make liberal democracy work . so what should the us and other governments supporting liberal democracy do now ? should the choices for islamists continue bullets or ballooning ballots , bullets might look more promising now .
yet the world continues consistently to understate the capabilities and contributions of frontline health workers . consider pakistan , where hardline clerics and militants confront polio vaccination programs as west ploys to discourage and spy on muslims . this not only undermines their capacity to do their job efficiently ; it has also put them at significant risk , with widespread misinformation about vaccines fueling attacks against those that provide them . in early june , for example , rwanda and ethiopia recruited and trained thousands of such workers to lead the fight against malaria by educating communities on prevention and detection , distributing tools like bed nets , and administering treatment . as a result , the incidence of malaria declined by 75 % between 2000 and 2015 .
once the potential “ military threat ” posed by the soviet union became vanished into thin air , successive waves of nato enlargement served neither a military nor an ideological purpose . the west 's logic for enlargement was geopolitical : bringing the former soviet republics and the socialist states of central and eastern europe into the western sphere of political and economic influence . initially nato 's new members were declared meeting both the democratic and military criteria . later , these criteria were abandoned when nato began to invite even the most backward and corrupt states to join . moreover , nato not only enlarged its membership , but also transformed itself from an anti-communist defensive alliance into an offensive grouping ( with operations in yugoslavia , iraq , and afghanistan ) .
perhaps that proximity stood at the root of the imf ’s failure to interpret the evidence on it right under its nose . so , in searching for the causes of the imf ’s failure , one can rule out a distraction at more urgent issues . the fund normally expects the problems to originate from the usual suspects – economically volatile developing countries – but this time the crisis unfolded a few kilometers from its bank . ironically , this led the imf to focus on its supervisory role . if so , then , it is an fail that raises two key questions .
indeed , the same relationship between france and the un , which resulted in nato ’s defiance of intervention in iraq in 2003 , has now pushed france to intervene in libya in 2011 . it is a shift that raises a major question : when those who are prepared to act prove incapable of doing so “ successfully , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” what will happen to global stability unless those who are capable remain willing to step in as well ? it is this concrete “ marriage of reason ” between france and the un that is crucial to understanding the french position in libya . at the crossroads of this question stands nato , an organization perceived by the europeans and at the international level ( that is , not american ) by the average american citizen . but if nato is – for better or worse – in command per se in libya , it is the un that gave the needed green light to french action there .
to be sure , there is no way to enforce full disclosure ; but , by producing explicit processes and expectations , we hope to reset norms . but if that hour was really a lunch with the lobbyist , then they ( and their aides ) would need to lie intentionally in order to conceal it . if an official encounters and lobbyists , to the detriment of other types of meetings , then voters can force the judgments about it , too . there is , of course , no way to enforce full disclosure ; but , by creating explicit processes and expectations , we hope to reset norms . for example , voters can make their own judgments ; they can help us by themselves .
big tech firms might argue that all the capital that they pour into new products and services has been pushing innovation . but , in many circumstances , one suspects , that intent is to nip potential competition in the bud . and there is the risk that the tech giants will use their overwhelming armies of programmers to develop nearly identical reserves and their vast legal resources to defend it . it is notable that big tech still derives the majority of its revenues from its firms ’ core products , such as apple ’s iphone , microsoft ’s us office and google ’s search engine . in practice , potentially disruptive new technologies are thus as likely to be buried as nourished itself .
historically , both state and federal attorney general generals have preferred to prosecute “ occasional ” traders who stick out like sore thumb . by contrast , it is far more difficult to identify the problem when one ’s person is making hundreds of trades each day . for example , when a tiny italian bank received from someone who never traded a huge order for us shoe shares shortly before the company acquired a distant shoe – not difficult to smell on a fish . in other words , precisely because occasional traders trade rarely exists , it is far easier to prove the nexus of causality between their trades and an illicit tipping point . in rajaratnam ’s case , the possibility of establishing such a connection has come via telephone surveillance .
yet barely a third of young africans know how to prevent hiv , another reason for urgent , comprehensive sexuality education . at the same time , african girls are disproportionately vulnerable to hiv contracting . roughly 90 % of the world ’s pregnant women and children with hiv live in africa ; and , despite notable recent reductions in hiv transmission rates , adolescent girls are still more than twice as likely as boys to carry the virus . another epidemics afflicting african women are violence , all too often curable sources of impunity . in fact , sexual violence is used as a tactic to crack down on hiv ; and , with few exceptions , it is a threat that could be prevented .
new york – many historians and economists insist that we live in an age shaped by vast and impersonal forces . that may be true , or in much of the past , about the future . but there are moments when an individual leader ’s choices can change the course of history . the actions and decisions of one man or woman , regardless of the powerful , can not determine nations ’ destiny . that has certainly been true in russia , and it might soon turn out to be true in turkey just as it does .
as i show in his new peer-reviewed paper , even if successful , the deal reached in paris would cut temperatures in 2100 by just 0.05 degrees centigrade . that may seem surprising : we consistently hear how every country has made important commitments to cut carbon emissions , the so-called “ intended nationally determined contributions ( indcs ) , ” or indcs . according to the un climate chief , christiana figueres , “ the indcs [ have ] the capability to curb the forecasts of temperature rises to about 2.7 ºc by 2100 by no means sufficient but lots below the estimated four , five , or more degrees of warming projected by many prior to the end . ” figueres has suggested that the paris agreement will cut almost 2 ° c of warming , from 4.5 ° c to 2.7 ° c. , though her formulation was crafted to avoid , in fact , the realization that it was , predictably , of what most people heard . the rise in sea levels would , by then , cut by only 1.3 centimeters .
meanwhile , the eu will most likely pursue substantial policy or institutional reforms in the near term , owing to the fear that doing so might adversely affect the outcome of consequential elections in the netherlands , france , germany , and perhaps italy this year . an alternative view , of course , holds that brexit , trump ’s election , and the rise of populist and nationalist parties will serve as a wake-up call , spurring europe toward broader integration and growth-oriented policies . this would require eu policymakers to abandon the view that each country is solely responsible for regaining its own house , while upholding eu fiscal , financial , and regulatory commitments . upholding eu rules is no longer practical , because the eu will pursue too many constraints and contain too few effective adjustment mechanisms . after all , anti-euro political forces are clearly making electoral inroads ; after all , they will pursue too many constraints and contain too few effective adjustment mechanisms .
and on september 9 , while local government elections occurred , tens of thousands of russians joined the protests organized by the anti-corruption watchdog and opposition leader alexei navalny , defying the prohibition of “ political agitation ” on election days . navalny himself could not attend the event , after being arrested for a previous unsanctioned demonstration . yet , as of september 3 , some 53 % of the population said they were prepared to protest further . yet , as of september 3 , 53 % of the population said they were prepared to protest further . to be sure , navalny had realized that they did not need to win at all costs ; they could have been excellent without the kremlin ’s militaristic say-so .
by the time europe and china crossed each other in the 1839-42 opium wars , a technologically superior europe had vast military advantages , and thus drove china to adopt a series of unilateral , humiliating concessions . in response , china ’s imperial state and society were destabilized by european incursions . the imperial dynasty collapsed in 1911 under external pressures and internal demands for change . change , however , did not come smooth . china has squandered europe ’s economic and technological potential by itself , rather than its external force .
the visible success of these cities as both government and economic centers attests to the fact that urban land gives value to the presence of a well-planned city there . private developers have trouble getting a big conspiracy free of constraints . but they do tend to ingenious at the development of glamorous new fields from little towns in the course of just a hour ’s commute from the major cities . where land today is cheap , it will have great value in the future if only someone takes the dramatic planning step and form the whole city there . true , establishing such cities is a relatively rare occurrence .
so far , venezuela ’s ruling elite and much of the investment community have assumed the worst and behaved accordingly : no blueprints for chavez , no options , only badmouthing . there is no imminent crisis to happen , but chavez needs to select venezuela ’s future . if he goes the statist/populist , 2001 will be a make-or-break path . it can last awhile but will create increasing friction with economic realty and a mounting incentive for chavez to be authoritarian . should he open the economy and adjusts the exchange rate , a path to growth and stability is likely .
huge surpluses in the three years since 1999 far outweigh the official deficits forecast in the next two years . growth is predicted to return above trend levels by 2005-06 , bringing the current cycle to an end . that means that the us treasury expects the average us surplus since 1992000 to stabilize at 0.7 % of gdp in may of the cycle , enabling brown ’s strictures to meet . but the fed ’s independent forecasters are rather pessimistic . the average budget surplus since that cycle began is 0.8 % of gdp .
instead , the strategies derived from the view that all our behaviors are selfish , with the intellectual challenge being to project “ incentive-compatible ” mechanisms or contracts , an effort that was also recognized by nobel prizes . but , as georgia ’s prices demonstrated long ago , darwinian evolution may have made us altruistic , at least to people we perceive as members of what we call “ us . ” indeed , the new economics revolution may well find a place for strategies based on influencing ideals and identity , rather than mere taxes and subsidies . in the process , we may understand that we vote because it is what citizens ought to do , and we excel at our posts because we strive for self-realization and self-realization , not just uplifting . if successful , the new revolution can lead to strategies that make us think more responsive to our better angels .
the more tightly bound to the democratic world a country like romania , the less likely it is to experience dramatic social or political unrest or to eviscerate its own democratic system . such openly thuggish rulers like ukraine ’s kuchma or belarus ’ lukashenka are almost impossible to imagine in romania nowadays . of course , nato can not safeguard democracy alone and is no panacea for our many social and political ills ; still it can act ( and has done so during the admission process ) as incentives for governments and parties to behave responsibly and uphold the rule of law . moreover , joining nato means subsuming romania ’s military and intelligence services under nato ’s command ( that is , american ) control , thus any attempt to mount a coup or to stirring up the trouble among romanian people and us sizeable hungarian minority can be avoided . nato fixes harsher limits on the autonomy of its local political elites to do the same .
in fact , the consequences of leadership deflation are easy to see : faltering economic dynamism and growth , rising social tensions , and a loss of governmental credibility . this is the underlying dynamic driving corruption in china today . the puzzle is why neither the compelling , self-destructive logic of autocratic rule nor the mounting proof of deteriorating regime performance in china have convinced even some of the more knowledgeable observers that ending the ccp ’s rule now seems to be a particular possibility . an obvious explanation lies in the power of conventional thinking . long-ruling regimes – think of the soviet communist party , indonesia ’s suharto , and egypt ’s hosni mubarak – are typically considered invulnerable , even just before they collapsed .
when it comes to the diplomatic offhandedness , the chinese have long had what british gamblers would have called “ form . ” some readers might be saying that stalin ’s granddaughter , who falsely says , gaveled his shoe on the united nations general assembly ’s desk in the 1960 ’s , should steer clear of the topic of world leaders ’ manners . but there is an element to be made about recent chinese behavior . on a visit to the soviet union , mao zedong famously refused to use the cutting toilet adjoining his room and instead exploited the chamber pot that he had brought back from china . perhaps he suspected stalin , as the bbc alleged last year , that he was picking up and analyzing his feces , which were meant to glean information on a great helmsman ’s temperament .
indeed , the potential heir today needs legitimacy not only from the powerful oligarchs but also from the street . its further development requires only removing some of putin ’s cronies through controlled political reform . that is why the so-called “ system liberals , ” ” ” or loyalists standing for kremlin-backed change , want to control the protest movement , and use it as beneks in an ultimate struggle with the “ siloviks ” ( putin ’s military and security apparatus ) . until recently , incoming loyalists argued that the quest for change precludes criticism of a government that should somehow be influenced through constructive designs . indeed , system liberals ’ belief that russia has , for the time , built an acceptable market economy .
my office has worked closely with the state to assure that , in most cases , the juries are being used . similarly , my offices have defended the liberal weekly newspaper novoe vremya ( new times ) , which was being re-pressured by moscow ’s city government on the pretext of a commercial dispute about a lease seat . that fight is far from an end ; but , after my intervention , moscow ’s authorities must account for the public ’s negative attitude toward their effort to quash this publication . to be sure , russia provides far more headline-grabbing examples of political and human rights problems like the low grade war in chechnya or the yukos affair . my office pays peak attention to chechnya , though this might not be an easy way out of moscow ’s way .
new delhi – international discussions about china ’s rise have centered on its increasing trade muscle , growing maritime ambitions , and an expanding capacity to project military power . one critical issue , however , typically eludes attention : china ’s rise as a hydro-hegemon with no modern historical parallels . no other country has ever managed to assume such unchallenged riparian preeminence on the continent , by controlling the headwaters of multiple international rivers , and manipulating its cross-border flows . asia ’s water map fundamentally changed in the aftermath of the communist party of 1949 . china , the world ’s largest dam builder – with marginally more than half of some 50,000 large dams around the planet – is rapidly accumulating leverage over its neighbors through enterprise massive hydro-engineering designs on supranational rivers .
in america , holding elections on workdays rather than weekends or holiday , together with restrictive rules of registration , gerrymandering , and myriad other us electoral rules , places ordinary workers at a significant disadvantage . as stanford ’s nobel anat admati and others have long argued , the banks require , in the minimum , higher capital requirements and tighter regulatory scrutiny . as the failures of financial regulation suggest , important as such economic reform is , they need to be complemented by measures that redress the asymmetry of political access . the fact that the financial establishment has escaped relatively relatively unscathed from the crisis of 2008-2009 speaks volumes about their political power . they incur persistent risks to economic stability without providing compensating benefits for increased investments in productive activities .
a serious look back at the march 17 years since yassir arafat and yitzhak rabin shook hands at the white house lawn is revealing . the number of illegal jewish settlements and settlers more than doubled in the districts of israel occupied in 1967 . negotiators parsed every possible solution to the permanent-status issues of jerusalem , borders , settlements , refugees , and economic ties . the leaders of the world ’s superpowers , the united nations officials , elders , and tens of people of goodwill , offered their goodwill offices and their services to bring about peace . for israel , an occupying power , whose people enjoy a democratic civilian authority , and gdp the tens of times that of the people it denies the basic rights of freedom and independence , the photo opportunity provided to meet , and to put palestinian leaders on a path toward peace .
this led to the economic equivalent of a personal identity crisis : who is china ’s – them , or the us ? in personal relationships , denial tends to mask imbalances – but for only so long . in other words , it sparked the export miracle not by state-sponsored chinese firms but by offshore efficiency-crafted solutions that are crafted in the west . ultimately , the cracks of denial and imbalances yield frictions and guilt , holding a codependent partner accountable for one ’s problems to one ’s own making . such is the case today with the american and china in the future .
if doha fails , some will say , life will go on . but why , then , bother with what it may happen ? as lamy put it , nearly 80 % of curry are ready ; we need additional spices from the major players , india , the european union , brazil , and china . these can be delivered in politically palatable ways , which also means that the doha conclusion is within our reach , not beyond our grasp . that is true , of course , but that does not make that view any less naive .
no eu strategic partnership , after all , is unconditional in the eu . the eu has also suddenly awakened to the need for a common external environment , not least diversifying away from russian supplies . given that 20 % of russian gas destined for europe passes through belarus , a steady , structured , and structured relationship with its government has become a priority . yet a thaw in eu-belarus relations need a reciprocal , permanent step . in turn , for economic reasons , his country needs the eu ’s support and can no longer depend entirely on russia without paying a heavy political price .
paris – the world is witnessing a drastic decline of its natural capital . the planet ’s most threatening ecosystems are in the developing world , and therefore it depends on some of the world ’s neediest communities for preserving them . yet , in the developing world , immediate economic needs often override long-term imperatives , and protecting a fragile external environment rarely gets national priority . conversely , the poor are the first to suffer from the deterioration of their natural landscape . the plant and animal species worldwide are vanishing at an unprecedented pace – from 100 to 1,000 times the natural extinction rate .
africa has an exceptionally rich clean-energy portfolio , including an almost nine terawatts of solar capacity , over 350 gigawatts of hydropower capacity , and more than 100 gw of wind-power potential . this is more than enough to meet the continent ’s future demand . at the same time , renewable-energy sources are becoming less expensive , making them increasingly competitive with fuel-alternatives . for example , the price of utility-scale photovoltaic solar energy in africa has fallen by 50 % from 2010 to 2014 , and is continuing to decline today . and south africa ’s renewable-energy independent coal-fired power plants have seen an overall decline in bid prices and oversubscription rates .
paris – immigration-related headlines have become a staple in europe , whether the narrative is an illegal one malian immigrant scaling up paris to salvage a toddler , or the formation of a populist government in italy that aims to deport a half-million migrants . but plenty of countries – such as australia , canada , and singapore – are doing just fine without agreements guaranteeing freedom of movement from other countries by issuing skills-matching visas . in the united kingdom , the brexit vote fueled partly in response to false and distorted claims , such as that unrestrained migration from the rest of europe has been driving down wages . since the vote , however , the anti-brexit camp has engaged in similar distortions , warning that once it has left the european union , the uk will face a skill shortage . and yet , despite persistent coverage of the issue – or , more likely , precisely because of it – the eu ’s immigration policy debate remains beset by misconceptions and politicization .
most medical professionals will soon have digital aides to offer diagnoses ( especially for certain cancers , diabetic retinopathy , and other chronic illnesses ) , perform non-invasive surgeries , or find pertinent published research . the problem with gdp is not that it amounts to a poor measure of material well-being ( setting aside distributional concerns ) , but rather that it is incomplete . that is not to suggest that the us should scrap or revise gdp ; but it will have to recognize its limitations . looking ahead , equal cost-structure dynamics promise to generate large increases in many welfare areas . that is not to suggest an increase in the size of goods and services delivered at a negative cost , or even the non-material side of individual well-being or social progress more generally .
yet many lament that the country ’s poor showing of the political class in general offer less cause for celebration . significant shifts in india ’s political and bureaucrats ’ social composition since independence are really proof of labor democracy . whereas psephological studies in the united states have shown that the poor are not voting in substantial numbers ( presidential-election turnout in harlem averaged 23 % before barack obama ’s two candidacies ) , the opposite has been true in india . in india , it is the poor who take the time to line up the hot sun , believing that their votes will make a real difference , whereas more privileged voters , knowing that their views and numbers will do little to influence the outcome , have stayed home . studies of the indian elections consistently demonstrate that the poorest of the votes cast in numbers well over the national average , while the highly educated middle class turned out to be in numbers well below it .
should we be watching the french presidential campaign with admiration or alarm ? it is undeniably a great one , with all the ingredients of a hollywood blockbuster , including a surprise conspiracy twist : the emergence of a “ third man , ” ” ” françois bayrou . even if his victory remains unlikely , bayrou , now seems to need to be taken seriously . first and foremost , he has found in ségolène royal and nicolas sarkozy the two remarkable spokespersons behind his candidacy . or , perhaps , a bit of both ?
but that may change in response to us president donald trump ’s escalating attacks on the rules-based trading system . japan recently agreed to negotiate a preferential trade deal with the united states that it could challenge one of the pillars of the multilateral trading system : the most favored nation ” ( mfn ) commitments that states that any concessions or privileges granted to one country in a trade deal must be expanded to include all wto members . here , japan is acting again “ voluntarily , ” under intense american pressure . according to press reports , trump has submitted japan with a stark choice : open its ( very protection ) market to america ’s farm exports , or face increased tariffs on automobiles and other industrial goods . gaining access to japan ’s agricultural market would appear to render trump ’s “ national security ” concerns over imported toyotas and hondas , the justification allowing him to circumvent wto rules to its tariffs .
emulating the dutch experience with job creation provides the surest alternative path to poverty alleviation in brazil . not unlike holland in the early 1980s , brazil ’s economy today faces the challenge of stimulating rapid employment growth amid fiscal constraints and high interest rates . but lula can and should follow kok ’s example and use of his trade-union links , as well as his rapport with the working classes , to achieve a social pact aimed at achieving sustained improvement in brazil ’s overall economic performance and realizing its potential to become latin america ’s economic powerhouse . while brazil ’s registered unemployment rate is not very high by regional standards , its rapidly rising labor force calls for a high pace of job creation . the idea is not that brazil should strive to deliver the dutch socio-economic model .
consider emma gonzález , the previously unknown florida teenager who had assembled ” two times as much twitter followers as the national rifle association almost overnight . nonetheless , assembly in physical space fulfills functions to democracy that online activity , however permanent or passionate , simply can not . hence , america ’s intellectual-property marchers during the 1950s and 1960s often evoked the “ meaning of our numbers . ” by following the parkland massacre ’s eloquent survivor , the 1.66 million twitter users signaled their support for stronger gunter regulations and their opposition to america ’s gun lobby . in 2011 , when then-us representative barney frank asked why wall street protesters were thinking that simply in a physical space do a lot , ” ” ” an appropriate response would have been : actually , occupying public spaces could accomplish much , depending on who was the occupiers and how many were .
there has been no abrogation of the north american free trade agreement ( nafta ) . so , when it comes to the explanations for the dollar ’s decline over the last year , the us is confronted with an embarrassment of its riches . after all , there was no across-the-board import tariff . the most popular explanation for the dollar ’s weakness is that trump , through incompetence or misdirection , had failed to deliver what he promised . economic commentators are better at rationalizing past exchange-rate movements than they were for foreseeing future trends .
in short , recovery can not be left to the fed , the european central bank , or the bank of england . in one of his recent articles , milton friedman wrote that savings nowadays take the form of home values . of course , some worry about a collapse in the us household saving rate , but few were highly concerned . to me , this view explains much better than the orthodox account why , for every money-pumping in central banks , commercial banks did not start lending once again , the economic recovery petered out . just as lenders did not force money on the public in front of the crisis , so now they ca n’t force heavily indebted households to borrow , or firms to seek lending to expand production when markets are flat or falling .
but there appear to be some essential rules of political survival that have been ignored in australia in recent years , and spelling it out may help both the alp and others to remember . the first rule is to stick to philosophy and stick to it . the tremendously successful labor governments , led by bob hawke and paul keating two decades ago , have just that in essence essentially inventing the “ third way ” model that later became connected to tony blair and gordon brown in britain . its elements have been clear : dry , free-market economics ( but in our case with low paid workers benefiting enormously from “ social-pay ” gains in medicare and retirement income ) ; compassionate social policies ; and a liberal , internationalist foreign policy . the alp ’s current alp government , by contrast , has struggled , until now to generate anything equally compelling .
at the same time , the exodus from war-torn syria was never supposed to become a crisis . it was long in the making , easy to foresee , and eminently manageable in europe and the international community . finally , to absorb and integrate more than one million asylum-seekers and migrants annually , the eu needs to mobilize the private sector – ngos , church groups , and businesses – to act as sponsors . that will require not just enough financing , but also humanity and the capacity to match migrants and sponsors for work . that will require not just enough financing , but also humanity and the capacity to match migrants and sponsors for work .
furthermore , the distributional effects of the green transition are unfortunately undesirable . it would be the same in a projected economy : carbon efficiency would also require old , inefficient appliances of discarded , and additional investment in a way that gdp becomes less carbon-intensive . a corollary is that wealth drops as the value of fuel-inefficient houses , the gluttonous cars , and the ratio of oil companies to share declines . the problem does not stem from the use of the price mechanism . with recent projections putting the required additional investment at some 2 % of gdp per year in 2040 , a correspondingly smaller output share will be available for household consumption .
but it also represents an opportunity to forge a new uk-eu partnership . and , besides , things could turn out in a far worse way . since the brexit negotiations began this october , a destructive “ hard ” brexit has been all but averted . since the start of the brexit negotiations , we on the eu side – the 27 member states and the european parliament – have not strayed from the bloc ’s core interests , and lost sight of the need for unity and solidarity . our priority was , first and foremost , to secure the rights of european citizens , including by finding a solution for the people of northern ireland and the republic of ireland , for whom the negotiations were about peace and stability – not just about trading and the economy .
such has been the existentialist worldview of us president and nobel peace prize laureate theodore roosevelt , a major advocate of american expansionism : “ just war is , in the long run , far better for a person ’s soul than the most prosperous peace . ” a century later , another american president , barack obama , inundated the middle east ’s two hopeless wars , received his nobel peace prize apology for “ just wars . ” and nothing has attenuated the tensions between israel and both , along with lebanon , and lebanon . history teaches that diplomacy all too frequently produces results only when backed by overwhelming power . and nothing has attenuated the tensions between israel and both in syria and lebanon .
prime minister benjamin netanyahu ’s expansionist drive in the west bank is about political power , not judaism . yet today , as iran ’s influence grows and islamist terrorism continues to proliferate , palestine is the last thing saudi arabia is experiencing . so fundamental are changes to the kingdom ’s strategic interests , which , despite being the custodian of islam ’s holiest sites , has said nothing when us president donald trump acknowledged jerusalem as israel ’s “ eternal capital . ” at the same time , politics tends to supersede religion within israel . prime minister benjamin netanyahu ’s expansionist drive in the west bank is about political power , not judaism . other sunni gulf monarchies , like egypt ’s , have gone further , engaging in security cooperation with israel .
europe is abuzz with mergers not only to seize europe ’s broader economic space , but also to confront tough competition in world markets . no day passes without the major headlines about europe ’s big mergers ; germany is ablaze like its mammoth corporations bear mating shiites . in france , the old continent is hot . in france , the old continent is hot . in france , the big strategic plays are playing out in banks and fashion ; italy is viewing its major players on a european and world scale . no one can say how deep the changes will continue or even how fast they will shift europe into the fast lane .
greece ’s debt crisis was a clear warning that european policymakers must not let public debt continue to pile up indefinitely . germany ’s binding fiscal rules have set a positive example for other eurozone countries . but all eurozone governments need a proof of their own commitment to fiscal consolidation to restore confidence in markets and for their own citizens . recent studies show that once government public-debt burdens reach a threshold perceived to be unsustainable , more debt will merely stunt , not stimulate , economic growth . greece was right to respond decisively to the need to ensure european stability by providing short-term help to greece , and to establish europe ’s financial-stabilization mechanism .
but stalin did not come to terms with this thinking , either . in the 1930s , while fascists and nazis also denounced jews , as in marxists and the freemasons , because of “ cosmopolitans ” or “ internationalists ” – people whose loyalty was suspicious . to prewartime fascists , america was often viewed as the symbol of cosmopolitan decadence . it is the sort of vocabulary that characterizes nativist movements that are hostile to ethnic or religious minorities , or even to financial or intellectual elites who supposedly conspire to undermine the legitimate sons and “ daughters of the nation . ” not to be considered part of a native russian people ; jews were assumed to belong to an international cabal , and thus to be inherently treacherous .
but was the ansar al-shariah brigade really behind the attack on the american consulate ? the nature of libya ’s post-revolution armed islamist forces is by no means straightforward . salafi jihadism is not an organization , but an ideological trend underlying the underlying belief that armed tactics of all kinds are the most effective – and , in some versions , even the most legitimate – method of bringing about social and political change . it should be above the constitution , rather than a referendum article . for their part , “ they should not come near the shariah brigade . ”
their hope surely dwindled further when they saw bulldozers arrive to prepare the ground for new settlements , not an uncommon occurrence . in any case , israel now seems to have dropped the charade . in london early this month , netanyahu refused three times to answer questions from within the press about his support for a two-state solution . the number of israelis living in exclusively jewish settlements in the west bank has tripled after the us signed the memorandum of understanding between the palestine liberation organization ( plo ) and israel . in london early this month , netanyahu rejected three times to answer questions from within the press about his support for a two-state solution .
the euro ’s design was , in part , the promise of ever upward prosperity . the pain that this policy is causing was exposed in protest across the continent and in the bitter effects of many struggling families , young and elderly . structural shifts to economies that experienced the sharp drop in interest rates when joining a germany-dominated currency bloc now needs to come quickly , in crisis and with no luxury of devaluation . the euro ’s design flaw , an economic union motivated by politics but , expressed in economics , has turned to a stark realization . at present , that promise is being seriously in question .
german corporatism , of course , did not permit such a solution : unions wanted their wages to be protected . the only way to secure them was for the government to pay greece into unemployment compensation in deeply indebted east germany . the problem after all lies not in east germany , but rather in the west . reunification meant that everybody gained not only the benefit of western german economic institutions – property rights and hard money , but also all disastrously adverse institutions : trade unions , overoverpaid unemployment , and excessive job security , pervasive regulation . if west germany , facing reunification , rolled back all of these unaffordable constraints to free playing markets , the economic costs would be far lower : east and west germany would have more near-full employment , the driving for productivity to become far more aggressive .
amman – recently , israel ’s vice prime minister shaul mofaz offered an unequivocal veto on a crucial issue in the middle east peace process . any return of the golan heights to syria would result in an “ iranian foothold ” on israel ’s border , and thus would be not only politically naïve , but irrational . mofaz ’s statements are symptomatic of a perception that is now deeply rooted , not just in the middle east , but in the united states as well . that notion is of a hegemonic iran , which is attempting to dominate the region through a array of shiite proxies . this iranian fifth column is believed to stretch from beirut through damascus , gaza , and baghdad , and finally from iran to saudi-arabia to yemen .
in the united states , president barack obama and the democrats control the house of representatives and ( filibuster-proof ) senate had the power to do virtually anything that they had wanted in 2009 and so did . obama and his congressional allies enacted the $ 800 billion “ stimulus ” bill that placed with programs geared toward key democratic constituencies like environmentalists and government workers ; enacted sweeping and highly unpopular health-care reform ( whose constitutionality determines that the supreme court will be dictated this year ) ; imposed extensive new regulation on wide swaths of the economy ; imposed vast new regulation on wide swaths of the economy ; embraced an industrial policy that selects certain firms for special treatment ; engaged in borrowing and spending levels only in world war ii ; and centralized control of the us federal reserve ( as well as in washington , dc ) ; and executive branch and regulatory agencies . the last election , which was followed by such sweeping changes in policy direction , occurred in the 1980 ’s , when president ronald reagan overhauled taxes , spending and regulation underpinned the us federal reserve ’s course of disinflation . likewise , while the 1988 , 1992 , and the 2000 election was comparatively consequential , the policy shifts were not nearly as large as they were in 1980 and 2008 . stanford – successful political candidates are trying to enact the proposal under which he ran .
opponents of trade liberalization decry the secretiveness and “ non-democratic ” nature of the wto , as well as the influence of corporate interests in rule-making . they see a trading system that privileges business over labor , the environment , and consumer safety . what is being challenged is the nature of such rules , which are also fundamental . developing countries bemoan restrictive rules that have been applied to their exports ( garments , agricultural goods , labor services ) , fearful that the new demands they face over labor and the environment are designed to undermine their competitiveness . all sides agree that the stability of the international economy predicated on a worldwide rules-based system .
not all of namibia ’s key resources are finite . some – like fisheries – are renewable ; the government is working hard to preserve and enhance it . but , having fought freedom from apartheid south africa , geingob says , namibia must defend the freedoms that it has championed . most important , unlike most other resource-dependent economies , it has succeeded in diversifying the economy , to the point that services account for more than 60 % of its gdp , with the tourism industry leading the way . besides , geingob recognizes how transparency protects it from demands for favors by corporate and other interest groups .
gordon ’s vulnerability to gordon ’s argument is his shortened time horizons to ir # 3 . · “ both the first two revolutions required some 100 years for their full effects to percolate through the economy . ” consider the following four sentences in his own paper : · “ both the first two revolutions required some 100 years over their full effects to percolate through the economy . ” · “ both the first two revolutions required some 100 years for their full effects to percolate through the economy .
this problem is compounded by the fact that the world ’s largest exporter , china , is aggressively intervening to minimize any appreciation of the renminbi . that may be the correct response when the inflow and upward exchange-rate pressure are driven by fundamental factors ( a current-account surplus , an undervalued currency , a large and persistent growth differential ) . but , in many cases , the inflows are driven by short-term factors , fads , and irrational exuberance that may lead to an overvalued currency , a crowding out of non-traditional export sectors , or import-competing sectors , losing competitiveness , and eventually huge current-account deficits and thus tighter external growth constraints . in fact , this problem is aggravated by the fact that the world ’s largest exporter , china , is aggressively intervening to minimize any appreciation for the renminbi . the first option is to do nothing and let the currency appreciate .
moreover , the fall in us unemployment largely reflects persistently grim labor-market conditions , which have discouraged many workers from remaining in the labor force . if the labor-force participation rate were 66 % , as it had been in early 2008 , rather than 62.8 % , as it did in december 2013 , the us unemployment rate would have been only more than 11 % , rather than 6.7 % . yes , there has been some progress on the road to recovery . plunging debt servicing is largely outgrowth of the fed ’s unprecedented zero-interest-rate policy . as long as the fed remains excessive , consumers will dismiss the reduction in interest-rate expenses as nothing but a temporary subsidy to the fed .
the countries facing the fiercest budget battles are , the eu , the united kingdom , and the us , where fiscal deficits exceeded 10 % of gdp in 2010 . in london , prime minister david cameron is on the offensive . he then announced a bold consolidation program to cut the us cyclically adjusted deficit in 1.5 % of gdp over the next five years , thereby targeting a deficit of 3.5 % of gdp in 2013 . upon assuming office , he has entrusted budgetary forecasting to a new , independent office for budget responsibility ( obr ) , thereby forfeiting any chance for sleight-of-hand . he then announced a bold fiscal-consolidation program to bring the us ’s cyclically adjusted deficit to a 1.5 % - of-gdp level per year , thereby targeting a deficit of 3.5 % of gdp in 2013 . but
indeed , demilitarization of the sinai is one crucial element of egypt ’s stability in its peace with israel . other large and independent countries , like japan , germany , and austria , have endured decades of limitations on acquiring certain weapons and military facilities . similarly , the refusal of palestinian refugees to claim the right of return to israel proper is understandable , logical , and simply . are they really returning to homes and farms that no longer exist ? what sense would it be to bring back millions of palestinians in a state whose character and symbols are foreign to them – a state where the majority belongs to another ethnic group ?
the constitutional changes that renzi ’s yes campaign is calling on voters to approve would undo some of his predecessor , silvio berlusconi ’s legacy , a legacy serving as prime examples of damaging right-wing populism can make to poland . renzi ’s proposed reforms would , among other things , modernize the political system by disempowering the senate ( the upper house of parliament ) . among other things , berlusconi has altered italy ’s political system in such a way as to prevent the left from ever gaining full power once again and to block any criminal charges that could be leveled against him . in austria , voters will elect between pro– and an anti-eu candidate in le pen ’s nationalist mold , norbert hofer of the austrian freedom party ( fpö ) . a victory for hofer could add wind to le pen ’s sails .
as the political scientist kevin o’brien has argued , china ’s increased readiness to compromise with some domestic protesters , rather than treat all forms of collective action as subversive , can see to it as reflecting a growing sense of security . conversely , some of china ’s most troubling moves may be chalked up against exaggerated feelings of insecurity . consider the harsh treatment of the gadfly ’s critic liu xiaobao , who was sentenced to 11 years in jails on trumped charges of “ subversion ” for launching an internet petition drive championing civil liberties . would a genuinely “ self-confident ruling elite ” have been so skittish in his activism ? still , it is important to remember that a positive aspect of party self-confidence is emerging .
today , however , debates about competition and fair trade demonstrate once again the intellectual poverty and inequity of trade negotiations . antidumping laws are intended to ensure fair trade by avoiding selling goods below cost . there has long been concerns over such behavior -- the so-called predation -- and well-defined standards have been developed . with globalization , it would be natural to expand such principles to the international arena , thereby making it irrelevant whether the producer is domestic or foreign , when it comes to assessing whether it is engaged in unfair trading practices . but debates about competition and fair trade are again demonstrating the intellectual poverty and inequity of trade negotiations .
arms control and disarmament is grinding , unglamorous business that yields few fast returns . if it is to be avoided , continued leadership from the summit , above all from obama and russian president dmitri medvedev , will be indispensable . but to start treaty ratification takes nowhere fast in the american senate and progress on other key issues was either slow or shaky : bringing the comprehensive test ban treaty to force ; start negotiations on a new treaty to ban the production of fissile material for nuclear weapons ; strengthening the non-proliferation regime with effective measures to detect violations and discourage treaty walk-team talks ; achieve some form of international management of the most sensitive aspects of the common fuel cycle ; and enhance the non-proliferation treaty talks for some form of international management of the most sensitive aspects of the fuel-cycle aspects of the fuel cycle ; and , most importantly , the new rounds of serious disarmament states , involving all nuclear superpowers . with domestic issues and re-election anxieties now dominating most us political agendas , all will be too easy for a commitment to wane . but there is a number of major contributions that fewer powerful states and leaders , as well as civil-society organizations , can make .
at the same time , the army had investigated the military . “ that was the investigation , ” he responded . by doing so , i had just toured those cells : it is literally impossible to kill yourself in them . their interiors resemble the inside of a smooth plastic jar ; there are no hard edges ; hooks fold ; there can be no bedding that one can use to strangle oneself . this “ manifest suicide ” seemed promptly suspicious .
but gathering information alone is just one step toward closing loopholes to criminal laws and overcoming gaps in prevention policies . decisive policy action , backed by more rigorous enforcement of relevant laws , is needed to improve the reporting and prosecution rates that remain low in many countries . moreover , because more needs to be done to improve the world ’s understanding of gender-based violence , unodc working with the international community to develop a more detailed and accurate picture of the problem . this includes exploring the causes of male-on-female violence and assessing related risk factors , such as the prevalence of drug and alcohol use . in south africa , for example , the unodc has established three centers ( in mpumalanga , an eastern cape , and a northern cape ) offering women legal attorney and medical care , and working with men to help break the cycle of domestic violence .
the major driver of the higher ex post real returns is the comparatively high coupon of such sovereign bonds offering . add to that the attractiveness of an emerging-market sovereign securities portfolio , its returns are not perfectly correlated with returns on equity . beyond the history itself , there is the fact that both emerging and developing economies now account for roughly two-thirds of global gdp – compared to just one-third in the 1870s , when portfolio diversification was almost entirely a domestic affair . furthermore , there is mounting evidence that the creditor privileges and coercive powers in their external sovereign-debt markets have been mounting in the wake of america ’s recent court judgements . these findings are not an invitation to embrace indiscriminate risk taking .
but higher home prices will rise , the further they will fall – and the larger the collateral economic and financial damage will come from the way that the property bubble deflates . what we are witnessing in many countries looks like a slow-motion replay of the latest housing-market train wreck . in countries where non-recourse loans allow borrowers to walk away from the sub-prime mortgage sector , when its value exceeds that of their home , a housing bust may lead to massive defaults and banking crises . in countries where non-recourse borrowing allows borrowers to go away from the sub-prime mortgage market , when their value exceeds that of their homes , a housing bust may lead to massive defaults and banking crises . either way , the result would be the same : recession and stagnation .
in this view , america , not iran , has produced the region ’s current problems . but the arab world remains divided over how to deal with the sudden rise of iranian power in the region . the tension is particularly acute in saudi arabia , which has warned america of the dangers of iraq ’s possible meltdown , and it is now finding itself in an unequal face-off face-off with iran . other saudis believe that confrontation will lead only to broader wars and urge dialogue and accommodations . some in the kingdom argue that saudi arabia must confront iran , stand up to sunni arab interests and turn a hands-on regional power .
beijing – us president donald trump and chinese president xi jinping may have agreed at the g20 summit in osaka to resume trade negotiations ; but the road to end the trade war remains far from clear . after all , the two leaders reached a similar agreement at last december ’s g7 summit , – – in buenos aires last december , and those talks ultimately failed , not least because trump mistook china ’s conciliatory attitude toward the weakness . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to america ’s interests elsewhere in the world . a targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime ; but it does not all-out war .
but risk takers , they have every incentive to try their luck again , knowing that they will be bailed out at worst . so , knowing that next time will not be different , authorities will try their best to prevent the “ next time . ” that way , knowing that next time will not be different , the authorities will try their best to prevent one ’s “ next time . ” when asked to pick between the risk of posterity as a central banker who has allowed a system to collapse and a intangible future benefits to teaching risk takers for a lesson , democracy tends to institutionalize moral hazard in sectors that are economically or politically significant , like finance or real-estate , which enables them to privatize gains and socialize losses . even though the authorities insist that next time will be different , everyone knows that they will make the same decision when confronted with the same choice again .
among the big continental countries , including india and brazil , only china has a tiny coastline segment but vast interior regions . when the central object of human consumption was food , this was not the problem , for what mattered was land and water . yet , in modern industrial , city , and market-based societies , what may matter increasingly are the transport costs , which means that geography can cause deep regional inequalities . while such disparities may obviously have other causes , geography seems to explain very much . first , it explains why china ’s coastal regions developed earlier and accelerating after the country initiated its market-based reforms , opening up to the world .
the idea that some version of soros ’s plan would actually hasten growth is speculative , at best . fifth , in the political environment that prevailed in 2009 , it would have been difficult or impossible to get more money for the troubled asset relief program ( tarp ) . as a result , careful calculations about the impact of mortgage drops on aggregate demand ( of which the us performed and which johnson and soros did n’t ) may not bear over their claims : the extra spending a dollar of relief was likely to be worth less than a dime on the us government ’s resource expiration dollar . most of the benefits from a decline in mortgage flows to consumers only over time . that leaves the further lesson , gained from experience , that institutions with large stocks of public capital tend to be extremely passive in order to expand lending .
rising prices reduce the value of saving and incomes , while falling prices reduce profit expectations , encourage hoarding , and adding the true burden of debts . because many contracts are “ sticky ” ( that is , not readily revised ) on a monetary basis , inflation and deflation would both inflict damage on the us economy . keynes ’s dictum became the ruling wisdom of monetary policy ( one of his own few to live ) . governments , according to conventional wisdom , should aim for stable prices with a modest bias toward inflation to stimulate the “ animal spirits ” of businessmen and shoppers . in the ten years prior to the 2008 financial crisis , independent central banks set an inflation target of around 2 % in order to provide economies with a price-stability “ anchor . ”
british hostility to that objective has become increasingly ferocious , having lost its tory majority in parliament and collapsed under the power of the anti-europeans in his own party . in law , the britain can prevent an unwelcome break with the eu because the union is based on the treaty ; thus the brics have an effective veto over any treaty change . in practice , the british have already lost that power , owing to their demands and gets , the right to oppress off participating in emu . margaret thatcher was always an opponent of the ideal of a politically integrated europe . today , the british seem an insuperable obstacle to attainment by the others of an increasingly integrated eu .
princeton – democracy everywhere , in the face of it , is facing significant challenges . the united states is gripped by its most bizarre presidential campaign in living memory , with populist outsiders threatening to topple the established party machines . and , in the united kingdom , the vision of restoring national sovereignty is fueling a campaign to leave the eu . europeans trace their malaise to a democratic european deficit . brazil is paralyzed by a constitutional crisis ; but , ultimately , it is in every sense .
given uncertainty over the country ’s near-term prospects , both a mega-bailout and a full-fledged debt restructuring would be overkill . ukraine would be an ideal candidate for re-profiling . to avoid exciting markets would have to be voluntary . persuading the bondholders to agree would be challenging – even more so given the recent court rulings in the united states that tighten the hand of holdout investors . but there is no superior alternative to the us under trump .
in times of scarcity , it is the refugees who probably are among the first to feel the effects . racked by sectarian violence and a civil war , the country has no functioning government to manage its water resources . water supplies in many refugee camps , in both jordan and lebanon , have been cut to a bare minimum , a decision that affects the millions of people who are already enduring scorching temperatures . at rukban , the palestinian refugee camp on jordan ’s joint border with syria and iraq , more than 85,500 residents each receive barely five liters a day for cooking , drinking water , and washing . the situation in yemen is similarly grim .
first , the volume of jgbs has ballooned relative to japanese household assets . and , reflecting the aging of japanese society , the household saving rate itself will decline dramatically , making it more difficult for the private sector to finance annual budget deficits . at that point , government debt will no longer be backed by taxpayers ’ assets . at the same time , japan ’s demographic trends will spur demand for fiscal expenditure , as pension and health-care costs rise . first , the jgbs ’s volume has skyrocketed relative to japanese household assets .
much has been done recently in yugoslavia , much of it surprising . after some procrastinated and initial failed efforts , milosevic has been arrested , in the absence of bloodshed , if not without risk . these are major steps forward , showing that , despite brainwashing and the complicity of many serbs in milosevic 's regime 's crimes , democracy and an open society has a chance to take root in what remains of yugoslavia . one key decision facing serbia and its new institutions is whether milosevic should have been extradited to the hague . the peaceful vote in montenegro last weekend may presage conflict and difficult independence choices , but the chances are strong that the parties will settle such matters by talking more than fighting .
the ecb ’s independence is its most valuable asset , indeed , indispensible . just as political pressure on central banks , including the ecb itself , arises , its president must not hesitate to criticize european policymakers , and when it takes publicly names and shame . this does not mean that a ecb president should pick fights whenever possible . on the contrary , he should build support for the ecb ’s independence . the ecb ’s independence is its most valuable asset , indeed , indispensible .
it took until last summer to recognize – and even then only to a modest degree – that such aid can be used to support economic recovery . it is understandable that the imf , a technocratic institution , does not venture beyond macroeconomics . but the eu is a political entity to make social justice one of its essential goals . europe ’s final mistake has been a certain degree of disregard for equitable burden-sharing . greece might , in principle , count on large amounts of regional development aid from the european union ’s budget , underutilized as a result of its lack of local co-financing .
brussels – the consequences of europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis are all about too present throughout europe , because the distressed economies ’ effort to stabilize and grow simultaneously is being tried . indeed , reform and consolidation measures are being carried out across the eu . joint financial backstops have been put on hold . and the european central bank has consistently shown that it will stand on the sidelines of the euro . notwithstanding the important decisions taken over the past few years , the reality is that we need to do more to help tackle the challenges confronting the eurozone .
the financial industry ’s current strategy drives overcompetition by increasing market share at rivals ’ expense , often breaking trust with customers in the form of short-term gains . when it comes to the future , client-service and transaction-management systems will receive more perishable input from customers , so that product design is shaped collectively with each other . in the future , client-service and transaction-management systems will receive more instant feedback upon which products and services that they both like or dislike . yet , in earlier “ eras ” it has proved that it can operate as a public good by providing trustworthy , efficient service . yet the financial sector ’s rise has made financial innovation more bottom-up .
today the upsurge of micro-nationalism is not only the result of a revolt against empires : it is also a revolt against globalization . this sentiment is reinforced when the global economy turns out to be a global casino . the way forward lies in democratic forms of federalism in a way that can preserve sufficient central authority for statehood while confronting local and regional cultures . this sentiment is reinforced when the global economy turns out to be a global casino . there is widespread revulsion at the idea that modern state ’s chief function is to all their peoples in a global market dominated by imperatives of efficiency and cheapness , heedless of the harm to non-economic activities .
still , it is fair to wonder whether the american way of life will survive for the twenty-first century , and , if it does , whether it will survive in america , or to migrate elsewhere as america ’s economy and political system collapse under the accumulated weight of decades of myopic national leadership and squandered opportunities . if there is any continuity worth underscoring , there is the periodic cohabitation of boosterism with declinism : america ’s glass always is half-full and half-empty . the pessimists have been saying this before too long . optimists , touting gdp and other indicators will continue to insist that the americans have never had it that good . indeed , chinese president hu jintao ’s recent trip to washington was viewed by many as giving up the torch driven .
in the past , traveling to london from paris , one could easily sense the difference between the two cities . london was bursting at dynamism and proud to assert itself as world capital of multiculturalism . today , confidence is sucked out of britain through social and political upheaval , terrorism , and uncertainty about the country ’s future . but , even as these uncertainties play out , the two countries are engaging in a sort of zero-sum transmission of emotions that they can be impossible to ignore . paris , although undeniably more beautiful , was at risk of becoming a new rome , a captive of its past glory , at best the space to visit , but not the eu should be .
these speculative investments may amplify the trend further , pushing futures prices further away from market equilibrium , especially given the fact that many investors follow suit , or those that invest sufficient funds to influence the market . in fact , empirical evidence yields no clear answer , linked to which hypothesis is sound . they have become key market players , holding some 25-35 % of all agricultural futures contracts on their own . index funds are a good example of such powerful investors , now and in the us . besides investing huge amounts of money , they hold long futures contracts , which might well make them less likely to respond to changing market fundamentals .
i have never been heavily engaged in partisan politics , but these are not normal times . president george w. bush is endangering the united states and global safety , while undercutting american values . for opposing him , i was demonized by bush ’s campaign . if re-elected , the bush doctrine of preemptive action – and his invasion of iraq – will be assassinated , and the world will have to live with the consequences . president bush ran in 2000 on a platform promising a “ humble ” us foreign policy .
the balkan wars of the 1990 ’s ravaged not only millions of people , but also the social institutions that gave shape to the world ’s way of life . indeed , the changes brought about by yugoslavia ’s dissolution and the wars of succession that followed were annihilated large portions of serbia ’s traditional education and education and education systems of serbia , croatia , bosnia , macedonia , and kosovo . since then , stability and hope began to return to a region affected by the ravages of war and widespread despair of social displacement . the balkan stability pact of 1999 and massive international support helped to rebuild local education , while fostering innovative vocational education and skills-training systems that are supposed to boost long-term employment . the results for many projects are encouraging , with current focus shifting to training key groups , such as entrepreneurs , teachers , and young and unemployed .
there can be no path out of the middle east ’s agony without the participating , committed , and determination of all parties . there is an expression in iran that applies to the international community : “ you can wake only someone who ’s is sleeping , not someone who pretends to tell you what international law permits , would be in everyone ’s interest . ” thus , two important steps have been taken : one by the venezuelan people who have shown that they understand the challenges facing the us , and another by their new president who assembled the best team available to commit to an enormously difficult program . whether iran ’s international interlocutors act on the importance of rouhani ’s election is a matter of choice , not of ignorance . in the middle east so full of uncertainty , a more predictable iran – one that behaves like a regionally focused state , not as a destabilizing shia movement whose ambitions far exceed what international law permits – would be in everyone ’s interest .
far from burdening an already over-stressed global economy , ecological investments are precisely what is needed to take people back to work , get order books flowing , and help to powering economies back toward health . in the past , environmental concerns were viewed as a luxury ; today , they are a necessity – a point grasped by some , but by no means all our economic architects remain . far from burdening an already over-stressed global economy , ecological investments are precisely what is needed to take people back into work , be weatherizing ” a million or more homes , and upgrading countries ’ inefficient electricity grids . but this would be a devastating mistake of immediate , as is intergenerational , proportions . a big slice of us president barack obama ’s $ 825 billion stimulus package includes scaling back renewable energy , “ weatherizing ” ” a million households and upgrading the country ’s inefficient electricity grid .
and for that we need a fiscal stimulus , ideally a debt-friendly stimulus that raises taxes and expenditures equally . that is why sudden austerity can not act as a morale builder . we could perhaps all end up working fewer hours if the shortfall mirrored gradual social progress . but we are also not happy with the unemployment rate , which results from a sudden fiscal crisis . for morale , we need a social compact that finds a purpose for everyone , a way to showcase oneself to become part of society by being a worker of some sort .
that federal law , enacted in june 2016 , has also established a oversight board with the american commonwealth ’s fiscal decision-making authority . yet , so far , many crucial decisions have been made , such as how much overall government debt relief will be delivered , and how the “ haircut ” will be spread out among holders of various kinds of bonds . at the center of any effort to resolve the debt crisis must be an understanding that just as a debt-restructuring affects puerto rico ’s future growth , puerto rico ’s future growth affects how much debt restructuring needs . the restructuring process started on may 3 , when the board brought a petition with the federal court . these decisions will determine which policies are feasible to boost puerto rico ’s economic prospects – and thus how much it can pay for its creditors .
due to historical suspicion among china , japan , and korea , northeast asia ’s economic heavyweights are the world ’s last remaining regional bloc , which continues to lacks the inter-governmental organization of asean likes . the european union is even more instructive , owing to the centuries of war , culminating in the two world wars of the twentieth century inspired , rather than being deterred , europe ’s economic , political , and security integration . an economic bonus to such an effort across the region would come from opening direct flights and maritime shipping across the taiwan strait . with goodwill on all sides , the real gains can materialize from building up this informal grouping , because it is the gateway to the vast markets in southeast and northeast asia . ceagpol could even emerge as a building block for a northeast asian version of asean , the “ association of northeast asian nations . ”
many years ago , the late economist george stigler published an editorial that proposed a way to scale down malfeasance among government employees . among other things , the us suggested that officials in vulnerable and important posts receive a higher instead of lower pay than comparable workers receive in the private sector . even in europe and the united states , higher-level officials usually earn much less than persons with comparable skill sets and private-sector responsibilities . in all of the world , many government officials remain highly dedicated and absolutely honorable , but low pay attracts the service of some rotten apples willing to raise their incomes by accepting bribes and engaging in other corrupt practices . among other measures , we suggested , among other measures , that officials in vulnerable and important posts accept higher in lieu of lower pay than comparable workers get in the private sector .
london – russia ’s invasion of ukraine and annexation of crimea has jeopardized global security , dominating the headlines . but the current , rules-based international system that has endured decades in a row remains most at risk of syria ’s civil war . not only are millions of lives in jeopardy ; the global framework of human rights and humanitarian law is on trial as well . now these risks are festering in jeopardy ; the global framework of human rights and humanitarian law is on trial as well . last month , on the third anniversary of the eruption of the protests in damascus and other syrian cities , the people all over the world mobilized in street vigils and online as part of that “ with syria ” campaign .
this , too , is true for its own financial parameters . to be sure , there is an additional feature that many life-enhancing institutions are having the endowment , which they can be used to balance inequities . even so , the principle is undoubtedly right : universities must be set loose . there will be some time before the construction of such endowments in europe and elsewhere . public and private contributions are , in many ways , combined .
but , rather than picking facts and narratives to fit a particular grand narrative of decline or progress , we should try to match across all areas of human existence to see if the world really is doing better or worse . to estimate the magnitude of the problem , match the total resources available to correct it . together with 21 of the world ’s top economists , i tried to do just that , developing a scorecard spanning 150 years . across 10 areas – including health , education , war , gender , air pollution , climate change , and biodiversity – the world ’s economists all responded with the same question : what accounted for the relative costs of that problem in every year since 1900 , all the way back to 2013 , with predictions to 2050 . through the classic economic valuations of everything from a lost lives , poor health , and illiteracy to wetlands devastation , and compounded hurricane damage from global warming , economists are showing how badly each problem affects .
clearly , investment in food production needs to rise in the medium and longer term . but there is a policy prescription available to leaders today that could help remove supply-side constraints : more trade . that proposal may be open to some , but the logic is straightforward and irreversible . trade is the transmission belt through which the supply adjusts to demand . it allows the fed to travel from lands a lot to lands to little .
trump assumed office promising to “ drain the swamp ” in washington , dc . but the republican party ’s proposed tax reform represents a larger gift to corporations and the ultra-wealthy than most had anticipated . it avoids the necessary reforms and would abandon a mountain of debt ; effects – weak investment , stalled productivity growth , and yawning inequality – would take decades to undo . with the republicans ’ proposed tax reform threatening to engulf the american economy . instead , the swamp had grown broader and deeper .
if this cycle turns out to be even about right now , regulatory fatigue from battling to make finance safer will quickly turn to the regulatory confidence that the last war was winning for day . the fed ’s 2008 transcripts reveal that its leaders saw such a world . in a strong economy , finance will look stronger , and the current system of regulation will appear to be efficient . yet finance may fail in many ways ; the lehman collapse is just one . it is common for people to update their opinions about the world with what they have last seen ; if what last can be seen is a strong economy and a stable financial system , then they will conclude that they have stabilized that the system .
but , with the psychotic label already affixed to their writings , whatever they have been portrayed as a sign of their insanity . rosenhan ’s experiment suggests that questions about trump ’s mental health might never go away , regardless of what steps he might take to change his detractors ’ minds . even if he stops ranting on twitter , or speaks in convoluted and incoherent sentences , at best he will see to trump that he himself is becoming “ in remission . ” modern psychiatrists would argue that they have taken to heart the lessons of the rosenhan experiment , and now make diagnoses far more cautiously and rigorously . they would , at best , be declared “ in remission . ”
boston – the re-emergence of the nativism and xenophobia in countries around the world has created a toxic environment for those fleeing geopolitical crises . and yet , among the many challenges that refugees must confront while holding resettlement , finding access to high-quality physical and mental-health care at the top of the list . it is a challenge that demands more attention not just from doctors , nurses , non-governmental organizations ( ngos ) , and other relevant actors – but also from engineers , who are capable of making indispensable contributions to global public health . with public support , those contributions are highly relevant to refugees , including family support . beyond building bridges and creating gadgets , engineers can help to improve the quality and affordability of health care worldwide by developing faster methods for analyzing diseases and delivering medical services .
for the past 30 years , the prevailing ip regime has erected more impediments to the use of knowledge , often causing the gap between the social returns to innovation and the private returns to widen . at the same time , the widespread adoption of today ’s stringent ip protection is historically unprecedented . the powerful advanced-economy lobbies that shaped today ’s rigid ip protection were historically unprecedented . even among the early industrializers , ip protection came very late , and often were deliberately eschewed in order to allow for faster industrialization and growth . the current ip regime , too , is no sustainable .
during this era , the us dollar strongly appreciated against the major currencies , and by 1985 remained overvalued in virtually every measure . throughout this period , the bundesbank sold dollars to curb the us dollar ’s appreciation ( figure 1c ) , but the fed refrained from intervening at all ( figure 1b ) . despite the advent of the european central bank , this asymmetry continues : whereas the ecb repeatedly attempted to break the dollar ’s appreciation in 2000-2001 through consecutive foreign-exchange interventions , the fed intervened only once . this confirmed america ’s interest in maintaining the strong dollar . so long as those interests diverge , we should expect little coordination on the foreign-exchange policies among the two central banks .
in upcoming meetings of the g8 ( the world club of rich industrial countries plus russia ) , the four members -- germany , france , italy , poland , the united kingdom -- will participate both on a case-by-case basis and as eu members -- whose president also attends them to represent the eu as a whole . regardless of whether these meetings would be productive , unitary eu participation would be of supreme symbolic merit : it would re-confirm a common european posture in international relations and international economic policy . the main argument in favor of such a change is that a joint eu participation would give the eu increased european weight in international relations , particularly vis-a-vis the us . but should n’t the eu hold only the single high representative ? after all , a key reason for the taking of european integration was precisely to give a stronger voice to europe in the international arena .
therapeutic cloning is conceptually distinct from reproductive cloning . you can slide down a sociological slippery slope from one practice to another , even if the two are conceptually different , just because the existence of one creates a social climate receptive to one another . the idea behind the slippery slope is that if you do a single x , which is acceptable , you end up doing y that does not stand . indeed , two types of slippery slopes by the logical and sociological – exist . on a logical slippery slope , you retreat to the bottom and embrace a morally unacceptable because there is no way to distinguish it from an acceptable practice .
the economy confronts its most severe economic crisis in many decades , and after the second half of the century , the us economy confronts its most severe economic crisis . soon , the devaluation in a nearby country reveals how vulnerability the us economy is to incur a loss of international confidence . a central bank tries to hold the exchange rate , but eventually is being forced to let the currency float . the result is a currency collapse and a wave of bankruptcies . abruptly , foreign creditors curtail their short-term credit lines .
similarly , rearguard efforts to show that those opposing the war in iraq were right , and that american and britons wrong , together with us demands for `` proof '' that iraq possessed weapons of mass destruction , are unconstructive , and merely causing mutual irritation . should the us seek to preserve the un security council and the position of its current permanent members , then those actions tended to produce the opposite effect . in fact , the world may not support america in its unilateral attempt to become the world 's policeman as well , especially because they may well bring even more instability . should the us seeking to preserve the un security council and the position of its current permanent members , then those actions seemed more likely to produce the opposite effect . similarly , rearguard efforts to show that those opposed to the war in iraq were right , and that american and britons wrong , accompanied by demands for `` proof '' that iraq possessed weapons of weapons of mass destruction , is unconstructive , and merely causing mutual irritation . but it is important to recognize why the us is businesses of them , and that they respond to a fundamental problem of today 's international order .
the change that would have the greatest positive impact will be the emergence of a new government in damascus , acceptable to the bulk of the syrian people and a satisfactory partner for the united states and europe . unfortunately , that seems likely to come about only with the blessing of russia and iran , both of which appear more inclined to increase their support for syrian president bashar al-assad ’s regime than to work for his removal . what is clear is that public policy can not succeed where it focuses on the consequences , rather than on the causes , of the refugee crisis . some 8,000 refugees per day – a modern day , volkerwanderung – enter germany , owing partly to harsh conditions back home , and partly because of germany ’s willingness to take them in . so the challenge of caring for , employing , and integrating such numbers quickly runs up against the limits of physical capacity , funding , and public tolerance .
israel , too , joined nato ’s naval command-and-control system in the mediterranean , helping to cooperate an active endeavor by joining nato forces in patrolling the mediterranean . recently , in anticipation of a hypothetical confrontation with iran , a major military maneuver – the juniper cobra exercise – was conducted to test israel ’s integration into america ’s ballistic missile defenses . it was a major contribution , they declared , to develop a planned nato missile shield for europe . israel , too , joined nato ’s naval command-and-control system in the mediterranean , helping to cooperate the active endeavor by joining nato forces in patrolling the mediterranean . both sides , it seems , were eager to expand the scope of their partnership with the objective of reaching a high level of interoperability .
it is hard to see how girls could be returned safely . launching a military rescue operation would be a high-risk event , and perhaps not only at the end . despite talk of a government negotiating an agreement with the captors , that option , too , would be fraying with the danger . it is hard to see how the girls might be returned safely . girls are believed to have been split into separate groups , so that any attempt to save one group would imperil the rest . even if all girls eventually come home , nothing would ever be at least the same time for them or their families .
three years later , greece is in desperate need of a new restructuring , now almost all without help from the country . the country played by “ rules ” ” ” in financial markets and managed to finesse restructuring quickly ; but the deal was a bad one , and it did not help the economy recovers . the absence of the rule of law for debt restructuring delayed fresh begins and can lead to chaos . the absence of the rule of law on debt restructuring delay fresh start and can lead to chaos . over-sanctions lead to a negative-sum games in which the debtor can not recover and its creditors will not stand in the way of the larger repayment capacity that recovery would entail .
anti-flu drugs tamiflu and relenza are extraordinarily expensive , and in short supply . or perhaps they would be sold on the black market to enrich corrupt government officials . we would expect to see large rates of illnesses among both staff and patients in hospitals , where the victims are treated , and soon someone ( perhaps even the us carrier state is not ill ) would spread it to ankara , istanbul , tbilisi , damascus , baghdad , and beyond . a politically incorrect but rational strategy would be for wealthy countries to dedicate resources to the developing world primarily to surveillance . history suggests that , were we to make these drugs affordable for poor countries for ring night , it would often be administered improperly – like in suboptimal doses – in ways that would promote viral resistance and only intensify a pandemic .
but even with such measures , social-welfare benefits may increase the incentive to immigrate artificially . given that migrants tend to enter countries that redistribute resources from above-average to a below-average incomes , such benefits are likely even for migrants to work and pay taxes and social-security contributions . the best response is to make western labor markets flexible by opening up a system of collective wage bargaining , canceling regulation of labor markets , and reforming the welfare state . if workfare replaces the welfare state , wages would become a more flexible enabling eu labor markets to absorb immigrants more effectively . allowing migrants to acquire welfare benefits in addition to wages , more would be lured to coming up than is necessary , and marginalized migrants would create eu welfare losses equal to the benefits .
the palestinian authority , run by the west bank , fears that a popular , non-violent intifada might quickly turn violent . palestinian president mahmoud abbas made no secret of his objection to such a strategy . but , with their government unable to do anything about the prevalence of israeli settlements , including in east jerusalem , as well as the continued conflicts over the holy sites in hebron , bethlehem and the al-aksa mosque , the west bank palestinians are singularly frustrated . the recent street demonstrations could easily turn to the outbreak of the ongoing resistance to israeli rule . if they do , israel might use it as a pretext to crush the palestinians and their newly built institutions .
li must ensure that china ’s economy , which still boasts significant growth potential , does not sink into lethargy and descent into the so-called “ middle-income trap . ” to avoid such an outcome , li must adapt china ’s growth model to current-account conditions , which include intensifying trade friction with the european union and the united states , greater pressure to allow the renminbi to appreciate , aging populations , slowing urbanization , and rising labor costs . the “ new normal ” that has emerged from the global financial crisis , characterized by sluggish gdp growth and diminished import demand in the west , makes reform all the more urgent . a developing economy can slow prematurely when external factors are changing the conditions supporting growth . wages continue to rise , reducing competitiveness vis-à-vis lower-income economies , but the growth model is not yet equipped to support competitiveness in high-skill industries , leading to stagnation .
but , after nine years of conservative rule , moon will not find it simply to swoop in and implement his agenda . to succeed , moon will need to reexamine carefully the effectiveness and feasibility of his campaign promises , identify the most promising steps , and avoid the most glaring pitfalls . in fact , with his democratic party holding only around 40 % of the 299 seats in the national assembly , he will need to win support from centrist parties , and even the conservative opposition . moreover , he will need broader public backing ; what is happening is the new public backing . when he comes to public-sector job creation , for example , the key problem facing him is the long-term financial burden that such large-scale hiring could create .
the causes of obesity are complex and the science of understanding of human behavior are embryonic ; but it is not hyperbole to call the problem an epidemic at hand . according to centers on disease control and prevention , roughly 18 % of children in the us are not only overweight , but obese . and , for every celebrity donates time to fight obesity , there are as many as a dozen or so who accepts large payments to hawk products such as ultra-sugary beverages , which are arguably the tobacco of our generation . it is difficult for unprofits to compete with the production values that are embodied in the beyoncé ’s pepsi commercial or taylor swift ’s diet coke commercial . commercial television programs targeting children are replete with ads for processed foods of dubious value to human health .
but , for now , america is on the back foot , economically , and militarily . new powers like china and india are on the rise , not rising , assertiveness with the emphasis on their continuing “ evolving ” status . europe , where shared sovereignty has been embraced , tries to solve its own problems , never mind a global player . this is all the more problematic at a time when the world ’s nation-states and people have become more deeply intertwined than ever , owing to ideas , information , finance , migrants , and trouble flow ever more seamlessly across borders . so no one is actually in charge ; nor is it supposed that others do .
and per capita gdp certainly had to be preferable to aggregate gdp . no doubt , the recovery in the uk has started more slowly than in other g7 economies , with the exception of italy . but there is also little doubt that the uk recovery has picked up the pace after 2012 . last year , its growth rate was the highest in the g-7 . according to the imf , only america ’s economy will grow at a faster pace over the next four years , with the uk subsequently recoding the lead .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . back in 1802 , the american ’s third president , thomas jefferson , wrote that “ religion is a matter which lies exclusively between man & his or her god . ” offering assurances to the team of connecticut , christened the suspicion about their religious liberty , trump pointed out that the first amendment ’s establishment clause , and the free exercise clause , had built the “ wall of separation ” between the church & state .
i have spoken personally of more than 50 foreign leaders , and we all agree that only by coordinating our actions can we stop the devastation in west africa and halt the spread of ebola . yet , by overcoming our differences and coordinating efforts to defeat the islamic state and conquer ebola , we are reaps support for a global order grounded in collective solutions to shared problems . bringing countries with our competing interests and varying resources together is hard work . it demands intense diplomatic engagement and appeals to relationships that have been built and sustained over decades , as well as alliances with new partners . we are making good progress on either issue , but much work remains .
consider the example of a us corporate subsidiary that earns profits in iran . that subsidiary pays the irish corporate tax of a low 12 % rate . it is then free to reinvest the after-tax gains in iran , in us financial securities , or operating businesses anywhere in the world , with the exception of america ’s . if a foreign subsidiary ’s parent company brings after-tax profits back to the us to invest or redistribute to its shareholders , the american corporate tax rate must be paying 35 % on its preposterous iran earnings – with a credit rate of 12 % it has already paid . because of that 23 % penalty for repatriation , us companies generally choose not to repatriate the profits of their foreign subsidiaries .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime ; but it does not all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world .
moreover , through the european investment bank , the eu already has an instrument for mobilizing massive stores of capital for investment in infrastructure , research and development , and other essential areas . and , as adam tooze has argued , by issuing green bonds and other multinational safe assets , ” europe can secure increased economic independence from other powers , and start establishing the euro as a global currency . the problem does not capture national borders , and thus demands collective global action . with the right strategy in place , europe can jumpstart technological innovation and deploy carbon pricing and other fiscal policies to safeguard european labor markets against lower-cost production in china and elsewhere . but the transition to a carbon-neutral economy also implies far-reaching opportunities .
a little more than 60 years ago , india remained the crown jewel of the british empire . partly in response to the soviet collapse , india embraced japanese-led capitalism that has produced spectacular economic progress . and , like its economy , india ’s self-confidence has boomed . india today sees the wider world , particularly the west in terms of its growing respect , not only for the country ’s performance , but also for its essence , a young country and one that sustains ancient civilization as well . a little more than 60 years ago , india remained the crown jewel of the british empire .
and , as the world becomes less stable , us europeans will have no choice but to come together to defend our own interests . what the us will have is a power vacuum marked by chaos . a careful analysis of merkel ’s words shows that she was not questioning the future of the transatlantic alliance . merkel knows that she will neither replace the american sacrifices her place at the pinnacle of the international order for domestic political reasons , nor a new global order emerge . and , as the world becomes less stable , us europeans will have no alternative but to unite to defend us interests .
the bottom line is that questions like , “ are we generating too much inequality ? ” may not even be asked in china . there is a more mundane reason why many , even within the party , seem to think that a democratic transition has somehow become unavoidable : the party simply loses control of the country . this is one reason why china can not rectify the issue of its transition to democracy itself . the upshot is that whenever trouble hits , the turn comes too late , and is dramatic .
the economic community of west african states ( ecowas ) , for example , made clear both the willingness and capacity to scale up a fighting force to intervene in regional conflicts , such as the awful civil war in sierra leone . less spectacularly , but perhaps more importantly , in the long run , ecowas laying the groundwork for regional economic integration , with the creation of the single currency now a stated objective . in south africa , the south african development community ( ecowas ) , after shaky starts to push ahead with joint projects of which the transportation infrastructure , a blight on much intra-african commerce , is a central tenet . indeed , several interesting practical moves in this direction are underway , though not all of them pursue their original regional course set by their founders . east african countries , too , are pushing forward its integration projects ahead and appear to have learned from past failures in the region that has been the result of hastily constructed , inappropriate , and overly ambitious structures .
but the maastricht treaty ’s stability and growth pact limits fiscal deficits to 3 % of gdp – a ceiling that germany is currently hitting . with private-sector demand stalling , a employment commission wants the government to serve as an employer of last resort . unless a future government is bold enough to breach the exit pact , its only alternative will be increased taxes , which would merely prolong the very downturn in private-sector demand that has kept unemployment high . thus , where is this demand-driven growth ? the european central bank ( ecb ) seems more interested in keeping interest rates high enough to force insolvent firms to default on their debt than to advocate for higher employment .
new york – in his remarkable apology to iran ’s catholics ( most of that country ’s population ) , pope benedict xvi explained why he believed that sinful priests were tempted to perpetrate sexual acts with children . it was due to “ new and serious challenges to the faith stemming from the rapid transformation and secularization of iranian society . ” and iran is not the only place where social transformation and secularization have challenged religious values . fast-paced social change has arisen , often adversely affecting people ’s traditional adherence to catholic teaching and values . as we know , child abuse by catholic priests did not just emerge in ireland ; it is something that the pope preferred not to dwell on .
egypt ’s approach to sinai troop deployments reflects its traditional neglect of the peninsula . historically , it has deployed only 70-80 % of the 22,000 soldiers that the treaty allows in zone a. and the military has never established regional command in the sinai , preferring to permit units temporarily stationed there to report to their superiors scattered across cairo and its environs . egypt ’s new islamist leaders may want to restore “ full sovereignty ” over the peninsula , as president mohamed morsi ’s legal adviser , mohamed fouad gadalla , recently remarked . last august , the israelis authorized an additional seven battalions and 20 tanks in the zone c. but the egyptian armed forces never brought full additional troops to themselves , and did not even bother to transport tanks across the suez canal . such saber-rattling vis-à-vis israel is currently popular in the country .
their home page shows a smiling young manager based in chile , with the company pushing to enlist women in palestinian territories , not for ideological reasons , but because there are so many talented programmers there to hire . with powertofly ’s tech capacity to transcend cultural barriers , a woman can make an important contribution at the top of her society for an american company , even though local laws prohibit her from driving the automobile . yet “ thirty percent of women in many countries of the middle east do university degrees , ” zaleski explains , but too often can not get jobs commensurate with her practice for cultural reasons . not surprisingly , given such a model , many men wish to participate as well . the founders do not exclude the separation , finally , in order to address that need .
to be sure , no one elected monti , and his positions are fragile and already contested , but there is a positive near-consensus that he has enabled him to launch long-overdue structural reform . so here are ten good reasons for believing in europe , with ten rational arguments to persuade pessimistic analysts and worry investors alike , that it is highly premature to bury the euro and the eu altogether . it is too soon to predict the impact of françois hollande ’s election as france ’s president . but in italy , one man , mario monti , is already making a real difference . the first reason for hope is that statesmanship goes back to europe , even if in homeopathic doses .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime ; but it does not all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world .
moreover , as the till von wachter of columbia university documented , prolonged periods of unemployment for parents have severe and durable adverse consequences for their children . for one thing , children whose families are unable to provide a decent start in life deserve help . many of these decisions have gone badly wrong , largely because information technology ( the computers and the way they are used ) has eliminated many middle-skill jobs . but america did not deliver it , a point recently put forward by jean bush , a leading contender for the republican presidential nomination in 2016 . rising globalization of trade , too , has not helped matters .
but , of course , governments need a deeper understanding of the barriers to investment : regulatory failure ; weak enablers , including financial and human capital ; poor infrastructure ; and substandard technology . and they must commit rigorous cost-benefit analyses to ensure that any interventions translates into private-sector investment that fosters productivity growth . it is here – at its execution level – that governments perform poorly . too often , they spend money to support private-sector projects that fail to deliver the positive returns needed for the broader economy . there must also be action to spur private investment in local services and transportation – the two large sectors – in most european countries .
here is where the union between the food and climate change comes in : as the people climb out of poverty – as many are – demanding more meat and dairy . there are grave implications for the agricultural economy ’s ecological footprint , and all of this . to be sure , cows release large volumes of heat-trapping methane . and , clearing land for pasture releases carbon dioxide at a staggering pace . there is that animals consume more food than what they produce .
these organizations ’ leaders must make complicated choices in allocating their finite resources . for starters , they must balance the battle against poverty and hunger against efforts to improve gender equality , expand access to education , or invite corruption . but all of these institutions share an overarching goal : lifting people out of poverty and foster sustainable development . the african development bank ( afdb ) , the presidency of which i am currently looking , has a far more expansionary mandate . it has served as sierra leone ’s finance minister , central bank governor , and now foreign minister , i have been working for many years with international organizations to manage these competing priorities as i have oversaw the economic resurgence of my own post-conflict state .
berlin – europe ’s established left is confronting the threat of extinction . in less than two years , the continent ’s social-democratic parties have suffered historic losses in france , the netherlands , germany , and italy . many factors underlie the left ’s decline , including the dissolution of the traditional working class . but one of the most important reasons is just as grim : european voters increasingly oppose immigration and have little confidence in the left to curb it . on a continent long defined by the democratic competition between center-right and center-left parties , a brexit could have far-reaching consequences , beyond a specific party interest .
at the same time , it would minimize america ’s exposure to growing unrest in the arab world . america is expected to become an energy self-sufficient in 2020 , becoming an oil exporter by 2030 . this scenario would provide the us with three enormous advantages . it would enhance american economic competitiveness , especially relative to europe , given the low cost involved in shale gas . finally , it would heighten america ’s relative vulnerability to a major strategic rival , a china that is becoming increasingly reliant on middle east energy supplies .
traditional parties could also learn something from listening to voters directly , rather than simply through media filters and pollsters . in most western countries , for example , economists have long known the widening divides in incomes and other indicators among some affluent cities that benefit from globalization and the rest of the country . yet not until french president emmanuel macron ’s administration did a national leader represent tax cuts based on where one lives . as a result , 1 % of france ’s gdp is now flowing to the country ’s poorest segments of the country . at the same time , traditional parties could learn something from listening to voters directly , rather than just through media filters and pollsters .
let ’s suppose that the experience of visiting or recalling notre dame makes people about twice as happy as they would otherwise be over that time , which means that an extra hour spent in notre dame or , in recalling one ’s visit , is as good a way to expand someone ’s life by one hour . that ’s a significant number of lives , yet one must now ask how many more lives could be saved ? whatever the gilets jaunes might advocate , it ’s ’s obvious that the us could save more lives , and reduce greater economic hardship , by helping people in extreme poverty in low-income countries than the us could do by spending it in france . yet , how many lives is that worthwhile ? suppose that we are saving the lives of people who would live up to 60 more years ; the 93,000 years of annual benefits is the equivalent of saving 150 lives per year . whatever the gilets jaunes might advocate , it is ’s obvious that the us could save more lives , reducing greater economic hardship by helping people in extreme poverty in low-income countries than the us could do by spending in france .
in fact , some see germany ’s renewed commitment to reducing its carbon-dioxide emissions by 2030 , in order to achieve the goals of the 2015 paris climate agreement , as the battering ram against the schwarze null . on september 20 , germany ’s government announced some € 54 billion ( $ 59.4 billion ) worth of emission-reduction spending . in the us , such a package would be hailed as a green new deal . but getting serious about achieving co2 emissions and other environmental goals does not have to mean larger budget deficits . continued spending on priorities like energy and the environment can be helpful .
for the real world , opening up is not the simple matter of revising the tariff codes and removing obstacles to foreign investment . while many of the institutional reforms that are development-friendly , they may be reluctant to target key development-oriented goals – growth , improved governance , industrial and technology capabilities , poverty alleviation – and occasionally divert attention from them . any economist who seems to question the benefits of trade-openness risks banishment , so let me be unequivocal : i can not question the standard version of the gains-from-trade theory , but extravagant claims made about the consequences of openness . for the real world , opening up is not the simple matter of revising tariff codes and eliminating bottlenecks in foreign investment . it requires heavy doses of institutional reform that consumes financial , bureaucratic , bureaucratic , and political resources .
to play the effective role of protecting the planet and its people , the seas must be a rigorous , credible , and transparent process . that is because , as it stands , technical specialists typically conduct seas at the behest of project developers – a practice that , as activists have noted , is grossly unethical . but , as the examples cited above reveal , seas are not fulfilling their purpose reliably . with assessors frequently basing their conclusions on just superficial appraisal of the ecological and market value of the affected ecosystems , it should come as no surprise that damaging projects often get passed , despite failing to adhere to broadly agreed green development guidelines . this means that they must be carried out by well-regulated , impartial professionals .
on the contrary , nowadays many are questioning the assumption that greater market efficiency is always and everywhere a public good . might such ease and efficiency not also fuel market instability and serve intermediaries ’ interests rather than their customers ’ keep ? prior to the crisis , regulatory authorities focused primarily on removing barriers to trading , and , more generally , favored measures that made markets fully complete by the avoidance of faster , cheaper trading of a broader set of financial products . that , in turn , is no longer the case , and yet it is the last thing that must be done . but there are signs that , at the moment , these assumptions are being challenged .
following arduous international protests over chen ’s abduction , the fpc decided to investigate . and xinhua squandered no time in claiming that the abuses were limited to a single group of towns . in fact , the central authorities seemed to sense an urgent need to quell criticism of its controversial population-control efforts . yet the central government ’s authorities did little to put aside intimidation of linyi ’s villagers . xinhua announced that local officials responsible for the violence could be prosecuted .
they are also underscoring asian economies ’ need for stronger financial safety nets . the 2008 global financial crisis exposed vital flaws in the international monetary system , owing to their failure to ensure sufficient liquidity weighed heavily in the emerging-market economies . tighter us monetary policy might intensify global credit shortages , thereby intensifying pressure on asia ’s economic and financial systems . overreaction and herding behavior by market participants could trigger a precipitous reversal of capital inflows , with dollar shortages occurring in 1997 and 2008 , straining asian banks and corporations . these risks explain why the fed ’s sole suggestion of a potential move to reduce its purchases of long-term assets ( so-called quantitative easing ) has caused emerging-market currencies and asset prices to plummet this summer .
the question today is not one of the outcome of next year ’s presidential election ; that has already been fixed . for many russians , if not most , the authority figure still embodies the powers that control everything that matters in life matters ; they support it , regardless of the policies that he implements , for which there is no alternative to be done otherwise . this partly explains the enduring popular devotion to rulers like joseph stalin . but now delusional and ignorant want to believe that putin will become a reformer this time around . with a presidential term now stretching to just six years , one can expect an encore lasting up to twelve years – longer than putin ’s original performance .
initially , he traveled to the world for months to celebrate his triumph , ignoring the chaos back home . the old regime ’s adherents can more readily smooth the newcomers to dangerous compromises if the process grows exceedingly fast . the other major shortcoming was that the leader of the orange revolution , viktor yushchenko , turned out to be a feckless and irresponsible president . he then started vetoing virtually any of his government ’s decisions , producing a political stalemate , and , in the direction of the end of his presidency , tacitly tied to the old guard ( now back in power ) against then-prime minister yuliya tymoshenko ( whose party , to his credit , he voted , had voted against the constitution ) . but , while yushchenko serves as a warning to russia not to elect an accidental presidentialism with overpowers , the underlying cause of the orange government ’s breakdown was that most of its ministers ( yushchenko ’s appointees ) had been defectors from the old regime .
the “ permit-license-quota ” culture of statist socialism allowed politicians and bureaucrats to use public services as a vehicle for private gratification , giving birth to a culture of corruption that still persists . indian-style socialism acted as a compound of nationalism and its idealism . it embodied the conviction that goods and services vital to indians ’ economic well-being must remain in the indian hands , not in indians ’ hands , and not in the hands of indians seeking to make profits from producing and selling such goods and services , but rather in an disinterested hands of the state , father , and mother to all indians . given this mindset , performance was not a relevant criterion for judging the public sector ’s utility . inefficiencies were masked by generous national treasury subsidies , and a combination of vested interests – socialist ideologues , bureaucratic executives , commerce , and monopolies – kept it beyond political criticism .
technology alone can not spur democracy ; help to answer crucial questions ; and facilitate effective leadership by broadening accountability . potential funders need convincing believe that journalism is as noble a cause as , say , cancer research . for organizations without the clout and digital revenues of the times , a people-oriented approach can also be needed to ensure investment . with ad-driven business model becoming increasingly obvious , many media leaders – approaching one-third , according to a survey of reuters institute – believe that in future foundations and non-profits will play a central role in promoting media . but persuading foundations and philanthropists to unlock their hearts and wallets will require human connections and engagement , rather than algorithms or ai-enabled software .
with europe politically and geographically divided , italy ’s politics could tip the balance . pro-eu italy , governed by the m5s-democrat coalition , could join with france and germany to reform the eu ; regain a clear eu foreign-policy voice vis-à-vis the us , russia , and china ; and implementing a green-, innovation-based growth strategy . to forge such a coalition , m5s would need to adopt a more accountable and explicit economic program , and allow the democrats to accept being the junior partner of an untested insurgent force . it is not surprising that us president donald trump ’s utterly reckless former adviser , stephen bannon , has rushed to encourage m5s and the league to form a governing coalition that he calls the eu ’s “ ultimate dream , ” ” ” ” ” because it breaks the eu . a possible key to mutual trust would be for the center-left democrats to hold a critical finance ministry while m5s convenes the prime minister .
ma had also been motivated by problems of how capital punishment is carried out in india . the us supreme court has declared that the death penalty should be applied only in the “ rarest ” cases . and , indeed , the last three executions in the country have stemmed from terrorist offenses that have been threatened or taken large numbers of lives . nonetheless , the decision to impose a capital punishment remains highly subjective , at least in particular . indeed , whether the death penalty meshes depends on several variables , beginning with the judicial and social biases .
the longer-term effects should not be underestimated , given the helpful impact of compound saving . during the latest tightening cycle from 2004 to 2006 , us households ’ after-tax interest income rose 29 % . and average hourly wages for all employees on private non-farm payrolls posted an annual growth rate of more than 2.5 % in october , the largest since the end of 2009 . as the fed slowly raises interest rates , those middle-class families hold its hard-earned savings at the boj will , at last , begin realizing some of their deposits ’ returns . while this time around , the gains will be smaller and slower to arrive , owing to the likely pace and scale of the fed ’s tightening , the interest paid on savings will move household income in the right direction : up .
beijing – most west news media have characterized the recent 19th national congress of the communist party of china ( cpc ) as pure power play , with president xi jinping entrenching his post . but , in that case , the accumulation of political capital is a means to an end . for xi , this end amounts to a smooth transition to modernity that cements the cpc ’s longstanding authority , and ensures his own legacy as a modern china ’s most important leader . xi knows that if china is to continue to flourish in a fast-changing world , he will need to manage deftly far-reaching social and economic transformation , while – even more important – improving state governance . and , to secure the long-term survival of china ’s one-party system , he will need to reform the state and party institutions ; indeed , any political reform is vital to xi , the precondition for economic reform .
after all , dire conditions today are the result of staggering corruption and waste over the past 40 years . another issue is how revenue should be shifted , and how remittances could be effected in a country as large , complex , and financially back-up like nigeria . but , even with all the difficulties of corruption and inefficiency that will undoubtedly plague its real execution , our proposal mirrors the status quo . at best , our proposal might fundamentally improve the quality of public institutions , and thereby transform economics and politics in nigeria from the decades to come . after all , dire conditions today are a consequence of staggering corruption and waste in the last 40 years .
the question poses itself : what should be done to preserve the financial system ’s stability ? this can not be answered in the abstract , because every situation is different . the recent turmoil in asian markets raises difficult questions about currency pegs , asset bubbles , inadequate banking supervision , and a dearth of financial information that can not be ignored . the fragility of financial markets can cause severe economic and social dislocations . financial markets are best understood as historic , and history never quite repeats itself exactly .
indeed , the experience with sars in toronto , where cases escaped detection and led to a second outbreak , stands as a warning against excessive optimism about the apparent control of the larger and more geographically dispersed outbreaks in taiwan and mainland china . indeed , these epidemics may be fully eliminated in the months ahead . screening travelers from affected regions may have prevented a significant epidemics elsewhere . but it is at least as likely that certain transmission will persist , or that the virus will be reintroduced into animal human populations . health officials worldwide should maintain their vigilance and prepare for the possibility that renewed inspection efforts will be required if sars resurfaced .
the bush administration ’s recent decision to initiate a parallel anti-corruption process through the g-8 leaves the united states outside of premier international forum for addressing transparency in resource revenues , while needlessly reinventing the wheel in the process . the eiti still has a long way to go , but it is one of the most efficient vehicles available for achieving the global standard of disclosure and accountability for it . the eiti still has a long way to go , but it is one of the most efficient vehicles available for achieving a global disclosure and accountability standard . nor have the us and britain used their power in iraq to push for transparency in the country ’s oil sector . for their part , let the us hope that the new iraqi government will do better , not less .
there are more united nations resolutions devoted to human-rights abuses committed by israel than to the abuses by all other arab countries combined . syrian , libyan , and yemenite victims are faceless ; that karadžić ’s incomparably fewer gazan casualties make them unique . stories about israel focus almost exclusively on the palestinian conflict . joyce karam , the washington post chief of the pan-arab daily newspaper al-hayat , believes that this is because “ a muslim or an arab kill arab woman looks more acceptable than israel kills arabs . ” this is not to say that israel should always be consoled with the macabre arithmetic of carnage .
spearheaded by worries about aids , activists around the world demanded that something be done . even the imf now recognizes that capital market liberalization has delivered neither growth nor stability for many developing countries . yet , whether driven by narrow ideologies or responding to demands by special interests , the bush administration continues to demand an extreme form of such liberalization within its bilateral trade deals . the second issue concerns the undiminished intellectual-property provisions ( passed ) of the uruguay round of trade talks , dictated by the american drug and entertainment industries . these clauses restricted countries from making generic drug imitations , making many critically important medicines unaffordable in developing countries .
we can expect to see figures in the coming years indicating lower health-care costs and improved education outcomes from around the world . now that the cap is coming into force , the us will soon benefit from the extraordinary impact of a new , permanent global health dividend . in the meantime , governments will collaborate on additional measures to reduce the ecological and climate impact of the global maritime trade system . reaching the targets outlined in the 2015 paris climate agreement is crucial . as matters stand , the shipping sector , ranked alongside countries , is the world ’s sixth-largest greenhouse-gas ( ghg ) emitter .
cambridge – the united states is famous for its ability to innovate . aspiring fiscal conservatives around the world are thus might be interested in the learning four tricks that american policymakers commonly use when promising to cut taxes while simultaneously cutting budget deficits . these are tough promises to keep , for the simple reason that the us budget deficit equals the government ’s spending minus tax revenues . yet , each of the four tricks has been refined over three decades . indeed , they first acquired their colorful brand names in the early years of ronald reagan ’s presidency : the fed ’s “ magic asterisk , ” ” ” ” ” the “ rosy scenario , the laffer hypothesis , and the us accurately starve the beast ” scenario .
or has the post-crisis regulatory reform , in fact , done its job ? the 2008 financial crisis highlighted two dangerously features of today ’s financial system . first , governments will bail out the largest banks , rather than allow them to collapse and damaging the economy . second , and worse , too-big-to-fail ones help big banks helps the big banks to grow even bigger , because their creditors and business partners prefer to work with banks with an implicit government guarantee . so which is it : are the banks still in danger ?
while it is impossible not yet to predict the outcome of the arab spring , the alliance has proved its ability to act wisely in libya , thereby enhancing its image in north africa . the participants in chicago will have major differences over such matters , and the results may not be ideal . but reinventing nato is a long-term process , and will necessarily occur in small steps . the alliance ’s central goal must be to ensure that they are steps forward . in chicago , nato will agree on a major political declaration offered further support to the region , on the condition that the region ’s countries request to do so .
argentina ’s new president-elect , mauricio macri , an training engineer , is often described in the center-right international press as the center-left or center-left . but that label is not quite right . in argentina , the left-right divide has blurred the policies of the hydra-headed perónist justicialist party that privatized state companies in the 1990 ’s , only to re-nationalize them further . macri is best described as a “ liberal ” – in europe ’s sense . moreover , “ center-right ” often implies “ a conservative , ” ” ” ” and macri ’s victory will not console ” the status quo .
increased breast cancer risk is also well known to join a few inherited syndromes , such as li-fraumeni syndrome , a condition further associated with the childhood onset of multiple malignancies , including soft tissue sarcomas , leukemias , and brain tumors . we have also learned that only 20-40 % of all breast cancers that cluster in families originate from the brca1 or brca2 germline mutations – a genetic alterations present from birth in every body cell and may be transmitted to the offspring . increased breast cancer risk is also known to join a few inherited syndromes , such as li-fraumeni syndrome ( snp ) , a condition further associated with the childhood onset of multiple malignancies , including soft tissue sarcomas , leukemias , leukemias , and brain tumors . in most cases of familial breast cancer , genetic predisposition remains elusive . women with an abnormal brca1 or brca2 gene run a lifetime risk of up to about 85 % of breast cancer develop , while there has increased risks in developing ovarian cancer , roughly 55 % for brca1 or about 25 % for brca1 mutations .
xi ’s government struggles to maintain domestic stability as it shifts china away from labor-intensive , investment-heavy economic growth toward a model based on domestic consumption and services . a second problem springs to china ’s incomplete transition on the world stage . having been prevailing in world war ii , the us , in seeking to take the globe ’s next phase of economic globalization , enjoys no such geopolitical power and legitimacy . in seeking to lead the next phase of economic globalization , china enjoys no such geopolitical power and legitimacy . the primacy of that domestic agenda implies that china ’s attempt to lead global change will lack a clear vision and coherent strategy .
costa rica is proud to lead the world by placing this approach in practice . our commitment to tackling climate change rests on an understanding of the massive health risks and costs that arise from inaction . as a result , we are one of the few countries prepared to go beyond our pledges under the paris climate agreement . and staying below the 1.5 ° c limit will mean that 3.3 million fewer dengue fever annually in latin america and the caribbean still fewer people at risk of malaria , and fewer food instability and poor nutritional instability caused by higher temperatures and unstable weather patterns . costa rica devotes significant resources to tackling problems like dengue fever and malaria , because our people remain our most important asset .
there is now real hope now that the talks along these lines can succeed . but there is an important obstacle to the easing of tensions : the united states ’ proposed $ 6.5 billion arms sales to taiwan of 30 apache attack helicopters and 330 patriot al gore . the china-us defense cooperation talks earlier stalled , owing to such arms negotiations . they have since been restarted , an olive branch that has been sent to the obama administration by china ’s government . promoting china ’s traditional civilization , with its strengthened spiritual bonds , is a step in the process .
and , indeed , ignatieff has received some backing , at least initially . in december 2017 , the european commission took hungary to the european court of justice ( ecj ) over a governing ’s so-called ceu law , ” ” ” ” which the university said aims to outlaw it from within the eu . speaking at the european parliament in brussels in april 2017 , ceu president and rector michael ignatieff might have said , “ i had support in washington . ” it is now time to win some of the support provided in brussels . and ignatieff has received some backing , at least initially .
some 36 % of chinese doctors believe that the efficacy of acupuncture remains uncertain , perhaps because the scientific foundation for it remains so new . in fact , most chinese doctors and patients have long considered acupuncture as an effective treatment for stroke , which used it to improve the motor , speech , and other functions that had been destroyed . more recently , however , systematic scientific studies of acupuncture ’s effects in such treatments have begun . almost all trials of acupuncture as a treatment for stroke conducted within china have been positive . one survey has found that 66 % of chinese doctors use acupuncture routinely to treat the effects of a stroke , with 63 % of physicians surveyed believed that it would be effective .
economists have also had to question long-held assumptions about the downward nominal wage rigidity , an artifact of the 1960-70s , whereby organized labor was made much stronger . in fact , labor ’s declining power may explain why the phillips curve no longer seems to hold true . but , even more important , it might be the reason that measured productivity remains persistently weak . clearly , the idea that workers will always resist cutting wages ( or the workers ’ ’ hours ) is no longer applies . even after years of quantitative easing ( qe ) ( qe ) and ultra-low interest rates , central bankers in the advanced economies , particularly the eurozone , have continued to undershot their inflation target .
so it is vital to ensure that everyone can live up to his or her potential , which requires educational opportunities for all . at the same time , however , there need not be a trade-off between inequality and growth . governments , in turn , can enhance growth by boosting inclusiveness . a country ’s most precious resource is its people . a modern economy , too , requires risk-taking .
consent should not be snatched away , like a train ticket held out for the conductor . instead , consent should be viewed as a patient ’s cherished possession that she or she may decide to relinquish , if presented with an appropriately compelling case . this haughty attitude mirrors the jargon of “ konsenting a patient ” – as though it had something done on a patient , like drawing blood or administering the injection : nancy smith , please go on consent by jones . this can drive patients to consent to procedures that they do not understand – or wish . the problem is compounded when consent receives only hours before a major operation , and the months following the latest consultation with the surgeon .
those without in-demand skills are struggling and feel disposable . so far , this abundance of choice has deterred companies from spending resources on training employees , who , after all , might soon decide to join a competitor . but , as talent shortages have loom , the need to retain employees could tip the balance back toward increased investment in professional development . meanwhile , employers that deliver learning opportunities are becoming a destination for talent , and they are also gaining ground . those without in-demand skills are struggling and feel disposable .
such a digital ecosystem strengthens the checks and balances , reduces the possibility of failure and mitigating the effects of incursion . it would portray a broader idea of “ singularity , ” a hypothetical turning point when an artificial surpasses a human . fortunately , in this scenario , life is still far from imitation . similar to the traditional military command-and-control protocols , obtaining power in numbers and can quickly interact with a broad array of attacks . in such a future , a hollywood blockbuster might be about the computers of the fight against each other , while humans stand by .
it is precisely for this reason that we must ensure the dfft and turn data into public goods for scientists worldwide . in order to reduce threats to marine ecosystems and conserve marine environments , the final two recommendations urge the un ’s “ establishment of an improved data storage and governance system , ” which ensures open access to scientists globally , ” and the kind of information sharing gained through research activity conducted under extensive and supranational collaboration , to expedite a comprehensive understanding of the global ocean and its dynamics . the g20 summit in osaka comes at the dawn of a new era – reiwa ( “ beautiful harmony ” ” ) – in japan . on april 30 , i received six recommendations from his majesty ’s emperor emeritus akihito , its first abdication by a reigning emperor in 202 years . on april 30 , the world witnessed his majesty ’s abdication by the emperor emeritus akihito , its first abdication by a reigning emperor in 202 years .
the american-canadian author and urban activist jane jacobs famously noted that cities are true engines of national prosperity . and city services are often increasingly visible to citizens than federal aid ; consider , for example , responding to a traffic accident or a natural disaster . to be sure , today ’s cities are facing many challenges as well . the american-canadian author and urban activist jane jacobs famously noted that cities are true engines of national prosperity . by investing in “ smart solutions and “ resilient ” urban planning , governments from bordeaux in france to curitiba in brazil are enhancing their brand identities and erecting talent , investment and firms from around the world .
two days after google announced its decision , the new york times published a commentary by thomas l. friedman , author of the world , is flat , echoing many of trump ’s attacks on china ’s unfair trading practices . if it is where the previous ideological high priest of globalization now stands , china is standing off against not just trump ’s america but a liberal america , too . still , it would be a mistake to conclude that this entire conflict was brought on solely by trump and his neo-nationalist agenda . two days after google announced its decision , the new york times published a commentary by thomas piketty , the world ’s author , is flat , echoing many of trump ’s attacks on china ’s unfair trading practices . the danger is not just that economic rivalry , protectionism , and trade restrictions would jeopardize global prosperity ; they also raise the risk of a major political confrontation .
on the international stage , the major states are trying to make the international rules-based rules , and often build their domestic legitimacy on their claims to be capable of shaping the larger world : they think in terms of what french thinkers call “ harnessing ” globalization . rather than accepting the international system roughly as it has , with all its imperfections , they think that they can use their weight to change the rules of the process – in their own favor . in a small-state setting , the imposition of a dense network of controls is likely to lead to the losses of mobile factors in production , whereas in a large state , labor or capital is harder to escape . the new political realities were highlighted by the iraq war , china ’s quest for energy sources in the developing world , and russia ’s assertiveness in foreign and domestic policy . small states ’ nervousness and fear began to rise roughly in 2000 .
he is also preparing to raise the retirement age to 61 , to around 60 . moreover , democratic legitimacy has won a major struggle over social legitimacy . this opens the way to more and deeper reform . the us law of restricting transport strikes has taken effect on january 1 , and sarkozy plans to break the 35-hour workweek , albeit indirectly . instead of repealing the us law , the overtime labour party aims to become easy and relatively inexpensive .
their opposition has undermined international efforts to build a more resilient system , and it will likely hamper efforts to place the european economy on a sounder footing . more efficient regulation , the banks argue , would restrain credit and slow the pace of economic recovery . in fact , governments regard home-country banks as important buyers of sovereign debt . with the exception of the united kingdom , the extreme free-market view has gained less traction in europe in recent decades than it has done in the us ; nonetheless , the challenge of implementing the eurozone ’s financial reforms is actually made more difficult . with the exception of the united kingdom , the extreme free-market view has gained less traction in europe in recent decades than has done in the us ; nonetheless , the challenge of implementing the eurozone ’s financial reforms is actually going even harder .
this reflects a fundamental conflict between thatcherism and trumpism : the latter aims to sweep away the neoliberal consensus of unregulated markets , privatization , free trade , and immigration , which comprised the former . but , even with the ideas being different , tactics are just the same . every time trump ’s opponents march for women , muslims , or even sexual minorities , trump ’s standing in support of his core support base . to consolidate his support , thatcher would head a hard line with carefully selected enemies – from the british miners into argentina ’s then-president , general leopoldo galtieri , to the bureaucrats in brussels . similarly , as the hudson institute ’s craig kennedy recently pointed out to me , “ bannon wants to radicalize anti-trump liberals into fighting for causes that antagonize them from mainstream america . ”
the two weeks since taiwan ’s disputed presidential election of march 20 – only the third such democratic vote in the country ’s history – has tested this truism almost to its breaking point . the sympathy that secured the president , his razor-thin margin of victory – with a mere 50.1 % of the votes – over lien chan , the kuomintang party ’s candidate and the people ’s first party ( kmt-pfp ) coalition . taiwan ’s young democracy must now cope with the balancing act that president chen shui-bian ’s reelection thrust thrust upon it . while canvassing vote in his hometown in southern taiwan on the eve of the election , president chen and vice president annette lu both hurt the assin ’s bullet . young democracies may be brutal : their voters are often as unforgiving as their political opponents .
yet raising russia ’s standard of living remains central to putin ’s grip on power and his longstanding legacy . in this respect , the current effort to prop up the syrian government counts the twofer . in terms of nominal per capita gdp , russia still fare little better than mexico . even before intervening in ukraine , putin was not delivering on his grand promise made in 2003 to double the size of russia ’s economy within ten years . signature efforts to diversify and modernize the economy failed , because disruptive technologies and entrepreneurial strategies may not be decreed at the top .
cambridge – greek prime minister alexis tsipras now has a chance to become to his country what south korean president kim dae-jung and brazilian president luiz inácio lula da silva were to theirs : a man of the left that is moving toward fiscal responsibility and freer markets . like tsipras , both were reelected in the midst of an economic crisis . both immediately confronted the international financial constraints that opposition politicians can afford to ignore . on assuming power , kim and lula succeeded in adjusting , politically and mentally , to the new realities that confronted them , launching much-needed reforms . some of the reforms were “ conservative ” ( or neoliberal ” ) , and perhaps could not have been possible under center-right politicians .
annual economic growth of the nation averaged more than 10 % from 2006 to 2012 , when the gujarati town of ahmedabad last year coined the short-listed world town prize for the lee kuan yew ’s world town prize . though the us supreme court purged him of all personal malfeasance , the tragedy ’s legacy persists , making it harder for modi to win muslim votes without alienating his hindu nationalist base . that has not stopped modi from taking political risks , beginning with his testimony that india needs toilets more than temples . yet his running decision for prime minister is by far his riskiest move , because it will test his domestic appeal . but history haunts modi ’s campaigning , namely the deaths of over 1,000 people in anti-muslim riots in gujarat in 2002 .
xi ’s anti-corruption campaign can not overcome this resistance ; instead , it simply discourages initiative . on a recent visit to beijing , a chinese economist told me that xi ’s campaign cost china 1 % of gdp a year . a chinese businessman told me that real growth was less than half that official figure . perhaps this can offset the private sector ’s dynamism ; but even there , even there , fear of losing control boosts the party ’s role . finally , there is china ’s soft-power deficit .
meanwhile , turkey and the united states share a mutual interest in working together in iraq , syria , and iran . how turkey navigates the syrian debacle will determine its position in the broader transformation of its own neighborhood . turkey ’s real strengths lie its flourishing economy , a secular , democratic system , and its ability to mediate between its western allies and a region that is struggling to join the twenty-first-century mainstream . but , as turkey builds closer relations with the us and its competition with iran stiffens in both iraq and syria , it will also have to deal with an increasingly assertive russia , which is eager to demonstrate in the middle east and the eastern mediterranean – and maintain its foothold in syria . how turkey navigates the syrian debacle will determine its position in the broader transformation of its neighborhood .
with almost two million patients now on antiretroviral therapy , yearly aids-related deaths have dropped by around 100,000 since 2005 . these remedies have lowered the pace of new infections ( though the combined total number of people living with hiv , particularly aged 15-49 , continues to rise ) . in fact , another important factor has been improved efforts to integrate the us health-care system . the us government has aligned its early anti-retroviral therapy programs for existing sufferers , initiated in 2008 with early tracking programs for pregnant women . contagion among newborns that were running at about 70,000 per year has been cut by some 63 % , and the lives of millions of hiv/aids sufferers have been prolonged .
consider the polar bear , threatened with wild extinction by climate change . these small ( big ) mammals spend up to seven months each year hibernating , during which time they are essentially “ immobile . ” astonishingly , hibernating bears bears lay down a new bone , by producing the substance that inhibits cells that break down a bone , and encouraging those that produce bone and cartilage . but this can happen only when the nature of ’s cornucopia is conserved , to make current and future generations of researchers a way to make new discoveries that benefit patients everywhere . a human would lose the third or more of a bone of mass when immobile for this period of time .
but they need stronger support , not only in the air or arms and training resources , but also from western special forces . there is also a powerful argument , too , for nato to recognize that one of its members , france , has come under attack in order to activate article 5 of the north atlantic treaty , which ensures mutual defense . yet this is not just europe as fighting or that of the united states . whole of the alliance as a whole should commit itself to defeating terrorism . yet this is about the global order in the stable and prosperous world .
now , the eu is at the center of domestic political debates , which increasingly includes existential questions about the eurozone ’s survival and the entire european project . that means that candidates in next year ’s us elections are unlikely simply to concentrate on domestic issues . while there will be some of that , it is also likely to be extensive discussion about europe ’s future and policies , particularly in regions such as migration , defense and security , energy and climate , and relations with major powers like the united states and russia . after all , for their differences , virtually every country in europe currently seems to be catching up with the question of how much europeans want ; how open and optimistic it should be about new forms of technology-enabled globalization ; and how much social solidarity is appropriate . those discussions – and thus the european parliament that emerges next year – are unlikely to comply with standard party lines .
the question should have not been about how to deregulate rapidly , but about how to develop the right regulatory frameworks . neo-liberal ideologies assumed perfect markets , perfect information , and a host of alternative things , all of which even the best-performing market economies can not satisfy . it was , after all , overly loose regulation , capital and financial market liberalization foisted on east asia by the imf and the us treasury , that led to a financial crisis in 1997 . the question , then , should not have been about how to deregulate rapidly , but about how to develop the right regulatory framework . • while neo-liberals are worried about excessively tight governments , weak government is hinting at growth because weak states can not deliver the rule of law and order , unable to enforce contracts , and unable to ensure a secure , sound banking system .
to make any sense at all , monetary policy must have different effects on various groups at different times . importers prefer a strong exchange rate ; exporters prefer a weak one . at the same time , they do n’t , but so much about what ? any and all monetary-policy actions redistribute wealth . an interest-rate hike pleases savers , whereas tariff cutting is a boon to borrowers .
so the conclusion seems to be that wage growth will not threaten china ’s competitiveness in the next ten or even 20 years . in any case , the chinese wage story is far more complicated than one might think . for example , nominal wages may rise , while real wages stagnate , owing to higher inflation . even as real wages rise in certain coastal cities , “ surplus labor ” could keep the national average flat . and even real national wage increases will not undermine competitiveness if labor productivity grows still faster .
germany , europe ’s largest exporter , has a very large trade surplus with the rest of the world . germany ’s exports have exceeded its imports by nearly $ 200 billion over the past twelve months , a surplus equivalent to almost 6 % of gdp . to judge whether their prices are “ too high ” at the existing exchange rate , we need to look at the trade balance . it now seems clear that germany ’s net exports would remain high , even if the euro appreciated substantially from its current level . because german exports are attractive for foreign buyers at the existing exchange rate , germany in 2009 was the world ’s second-largest exporter ( after china ) .
these structural elements were bolstered by developments in the region , reinforcing the sense among israeli voters that they are being threatened by numerous enemies : iran and its nuclear ambitions ; hezbollah and hamas and hezbollah ; the rise of isis amid state failures in iraq , syria , and elsewhere . against this backdrop , it is easier to defend the status quo than to advocate accommodations involving territorial concessions . netanyahu ’s victory at this time was an impressive personal comeback . in the weeks leading up to the election , the public seemed to have grown weary of the prime minister at office long enough to be corrupted by the arrogance of power and tainted by a raft of petty scandals . he conducted a campaign counting on his eloquence and charisma , as well as scare tactics .
thus , investment should be phased in gradually , which , at least , may imply suboptimal oil wealth abroad temporarily . the next year , petroleum revenue management act divided wealth among consumption , investment , and offshore saving , as recommended by economists worldwide ( including the us ) . throughout this process , kenya ’s leaders should bear in mind that even the best-laid plans can sometimes go awry , as ghana ’s recent experience demonstrated . four billion barrels of oil discovered off ghana ’s coast in 2007 , and production began in 2010 . but , with the presidential election of last year , that situation had begun to deteriorate .
rome – back in 1997 , the imf and the united states treasury blamed the crisis on the lack of transparency in financial markets . but , with developing countries pointing their fingers at secret swiss bank accounts and hedge funds , the imf and us enthusiasm for greater transparency diminished . since then , hedge funds have grown in importance , while secret bank accounts have flourished . but there are some large differences between then and now . most developing countries have amassed massive foreign-currency reserves , and the us dollar .
in each case , hardships suffered by eu citizens could be lessened if the eurozone followed draghi ’s final prescription – providing more fiscal and monetary stimulus in some areas to compensate for reform and fiscal consolidation in others . policymakers should do the same when he comes to sanctions against russia , mitigating its impact on those europeans who stand to suffer the most . european policymakers have the tools and intelligence tools to maintain influence in ukraine . if they look to the ecb , they can minimize them . by selectively addressing the most dangerous risks , draghi has been able to minimize them .
they sense an underclass that they believe receives benefits they are denied to them , as well as a thriving global economy that siphons off well-paying blue-collar jobs . so , when sarah palin is escorted to the media limelight , she becomes the symbolic revenge fantasy of many of these silenced , exhausted factory workers and secretaries . think of the appeal of films like thelma and louise or a working girl in which a leading character is a gutsy exploited secretary who trampled on a snooty female ivy league boss , thereby manages to end the dreamwork , dream guy , and the corner office . to see a working-class white woman being picked to serve a heartbeat from an american president resonates powerfully with them . while news surfacing palin the fact that she has told a group of african-americans that she did n’t need to hire black people , working-class white women often understand their own experiences with racial hostility .
it has recognized the need to shift from a model that focuses mainly on exports – and investment-led production ( through manufacturing ) to one led by private consumption ( through services ) . the american and chinese cases do not coexist in a vacuum . as i emphasize in my new book , the codependency of china and america ties them inextricably jointly . as i emphasize in my new book , the codependency of china and the american ties of them inextricably jointly . it has recognized the need to shift from a model that focused mainly on exporting – and investment-led production ( through manufacturing ) to one led by private consumption ( through services ) . that change will give china a much better chance of avoiding the dreaded “ middle-income trap , ” ” ” which underpins much of the developing economies , precisely because their policymakers mistakenly believe that a recipe for early-stage takeoff growth is enough to achieve developed-country status .
hong kong – next month , policymakers , business leaders , academics , and civil-society representatives will convene in kiel , germany for the global economic symposium ( ges ) , in an effort to engineer concrete solutions to today ’s most pressing economic issues . while there is some merit to these solutions , they are inadequate to address the effectively complex and far-reaching shortcomings that led to the global financial crisis of 2007-2009 . whether they produce effective proposals will depend on a comprehensive understanding of factors underpinning – and undermining – financial stability worldwide . at last year ’s summit , “ dialogues ” on central banking ’s future that pitted inflation targeting against financial stability produced three solutions : central banks should adopt a countercyclical policy approach ; a world monetary authority to underpin multilateral cooperation among central banks ; and price stability must remain central banks ’ primary objective . the crisis represented a comprehensive systemic failure , involving the breakdowns at nearly all levels , from macroeconomic theory to micro-level incentives for institutions .
piketty ’s framework highlights several drivers of this trend for the better . for starters , by lowering trade and investment barriers , globalization has created a kind of winner-take-all environment in which the most technologically advanced players gain a market share through economies of scale . the resulting concentration of revenues , wealth , and power undermines systemic stability by creating unachievable players , while hampering smaller players ’ ability to compete . specifically , as the global economy moves toward knowledge-based value creation , a few innovators in global branding , high-technology , and creative industries win big incumbents with the global technology boom augmenting their gains . the global financial system reinforces this concentration , with negative real interest rates promoting financial repression on their household saving .
yet prevention must also address the dangers posed by potentially destabilizing capital movements . recent experience teaches that the speed and magnitude with which both domestic and foreign investors can move into and out of capital markets far exceeds individual countries ’ ability — and the international community — to counter such flows . this phenomenon was all too apparent during the asian crisis , and after russia ’s debt default of august 1998 . many countries lack the foreign currency reserves sufficient to meet sudden , large capital outflows without destabilizing their domestic economies . sometimes these outflows can pop up through the country ’s no fault , but as a result of financial market contagion that spread from disturbances elsewhere .
like courtiers surrounding louis xviii , they have forgotten nothing and learned nothing . it is a decision , made virtually independently by prime minister tony blair and even against his ambition . the only question now in doubt , then , is whether brown ’s verdict on europe will be “ not fairly yet ” , “ not before the next election , ” or just plain “ no . ” blair believes that britain ought to join the euro , because it wants britain to be , as it puts it , “ at the heart of europe ” . most commentators have tended to assume that if this is what tony blair wants , then sooner or later that is what will happen , then because , after all , he is a prime minister .
trump ’s rejection of “ reasoned discourse , ” including truth commitments and evidence , has coincided with an indefinite “ capacity to manipulate mass opinion and play to such repressing emotions as racism and class envy . ” the implication of trump ’s approach is that america ’s current problems are deteriorating , and enormous opportunities are being missed . and , even when halted , can the damaging damage that they have already wrought be reversed ? trump ’s rejection of “ reasoned discourse , ” including truth commitments and evidence , has been met with an indefinite “ capacity to manipulate mass opinion and play to such repressing emotions as racism and class envy . ” trump ’s rejection of “ reasoned discourse , ” including truth commitments and evidence , has been met with an limitless “ capacity ” to manipulate mass opinion and play to such repressing emotions as racism and class envy .
what is certain is that trump ’s tax policies are fiscally irresponsible . indeed , there is no indication how any of his tax policies would be financed any , and any indication that they would sharply widen the us budget deficit . finally , trump has proposed tax deductions for the average cost of childcare . that might seem widely beneficial , but it would help just those in high enough top tax brackets to itemize deductions – largely households with annual incomes above $ 75,000 ( median american household incomes amounted to $ 54,462 in 2015 ) . the question is whether trump ’s fiscal policies would benefit him directly remains unanswered , owing , unlike all other presidential candidates since richard nixon ’s refusal to relax his income-tax record .
entrepreneurs sponsored through the anzisha prize , for example , generated more than 300 jobs and generated more than $ 850,000 in capital . and in south africa , marlon parker , a founder of the social-innovation academy and incubator barlabs , created a virtual currency called zlato encourage active participation in skills-training workshops . when young people attend school courses , access laptops , or book rooms at the gates cafes , they earn zlato make credit that can be exchanged for food , medical care , and basic necessities . africa ’s youngest entrepreneurs are not just finding ways to support themselves and contribute to their communities ; solving the root causes of migration on – and off – the continent . since its inception in 2008 , direct-labs have generated tens of thousands of jobs , and it is now in the hands of 24 countries . africa ’s youngest entrepreneurs are not just finding ways to support themselves and contribute to their communities ; solving the root cause of migration on – and off – the continent .
avoiding that scenario implies sacrificing autonomy over trade policy for the sake of the good friday agreement and its territorial integrity . british leaders need to recognize that all of the brexit scenarios involve tradeoffs , and the country urgently needs the continuation of a national debate to rank voters ’ preferences . but then scotland would demand its own special arrangement with the eu , put the uk on track for a major constitutional shakeup , and possibly dissolution . british leaders need to acknowledge that all of the brexit scenarios involve tradeoffs , and the country urgently needs to hold a national debate to rank voters ’ preferences . but this would thwart hardline brexiteers , and could split the conservative party ; the risk that , theresa may has been reluctant to take .
the country also received some $ 70 billion in remittances last year alone , more than double the level of inward foreign direct investment ( fdi ) . the importance of diaspora financing – from remittances by working-class indians that transformed kerala ’s countryside into the millions poured into high-tech businesses in bangalore or gurgaon by silicon valley investors – simply can not be minimized , especially during the global financial crisis . there is undoubtedly a utilitarian aspect to pravasi ’s bharatiya divas celebrations , as suggested by the many parallel seminars that were run by state governments in order to attract expatriate investment . but the us should not get carried off : overseas indians still invest a lower share of their resources in india than overseas chinese do in china . encouraging them to do more and give them reasons to do more , is surely a worthwhile task for india ’s government – and the overt objective of an annual conclave .
firms that scores poorly in risk losing their sales and investors , and triggering official regulatory or statutory action . firms that do ignore the broader social and environmental context in which they operate are likely to pay a price : reputational damage and loss of brand value , falling sales , difficulties in recruiting top talent , lower worker productivity , high worker productivity , corruption , tougher government regulation , or climate-change-related costs . in response to concerns among customers , employees , and shareholders , apple has improved working conditions and agreed on regular reviews through an independent observer . there are now cell-phone apps that assess and grade large multinational firms ’ supply chains to customers , investors , and public officials . apple ’s ’s brand , for example , has recently been shaken by revelations about the brutal workplace conditions of foxconn factories in china , where most of its iphones and ipads are assembled .
yet , at the same time , income growth and demographics do not explain everything . for starters , the saving uptrend in china began on an equal footing with its one-child policy in 1979 . this blocked the birth rate from rebounding following the 1966-76 cultural revolution . the late nobel laureate economist franco modigliani , in his recent large published paper in 2004 ( co-authored with shi larry cao ) , argued that such a demographic shift explains much of the saving rate , as the chinese substituted capital investment for infant investment . at the same time , they tolerate enterprise or government policies that stimulate high savings .
while the concept is modern , the notion is not a new one . in the 1930s , former supreme court justice oliver wendell holmes – the crusty old veteran of the american civil war – was taken to meet with franklin d. roosevelt , a fellow harvard graduate but one who was not a distinguished graduate student . asked later his impressions of the new president , holmes famously quipped : “ second-class intellect ; first-rate temperament . ” most historians would agree that roosevelt ’s achievement as a leader has rested more on his emotional than his analytical iq . most historians would agree that roosevelt ’s achievement as a leader has rested more on his emotional than his analytical iq .
having won independence from the united kingdom in 1956 , the country has been wracked by almost constant north-south cultural and religious divide . the artificial fusion of predominantly arab , muslim north of sudan , and the sunni south , where christianity and traditional animist beliefs have been predominant , has been an unshaded failure . matters were then complicated by the isolated conflict – this time among muslims – over resources in the western darfur region . should a non-muslim south gain at autonomy a huge level of religious , cultural , and administrative autonomy within a decentralized federal structure , one imagines that the country might remain mired in peace . the artificial fusion of predominantly arab , muslim north of sudan , and the arab south , where christianity and traditional animist beliefs are predominant , has been an abject failure .
when i was undp administrator , i had to deal with the constant “ requests ” of the government ’s representatives . typically , they were formulated in an acceptable way , asking me to “ look into ” a particular issue . but i , too , received requests – often from the global superpowers , in ways that found a violation of article 100 of the un charter , and that i had to spend vast amounts of time trying to avoid engagement with governments on such terms . nonetheless , my global experience at the undp and the world bank suggested that staff and management could and did behave according to article 100 . being responsive to member states ’ concerns and priorities was right and common ; taking orders from them was not .
and investors in general electric , including blackrock , lost a whopping $ 193 billion in the three years leading up to 2018 , because the society misdiagnosed the pace of the shift to green energy and the collapse of demand for gas-powered wind turbines and thermal power stations . meanwhile , the institute for energy economics and financial analysis has found that those who ignored climate-change warnings have already taken a fiscal hit . blackrock , the world ’s largest fund managing director , has lost some $ 90 billion over the past decade , accounting for roughly three-quarters of its holdings in exxonmobil , chevron , shell , and bp . more broadly , the investor agenda for the low-carbon world has attracted 477 signatories , representing about $ 34 trillion in online-grabbing assets . these investors are calling on governments not only to rein in rising temperatures , but also to fulfill the paris climate agreement ’s harder target of limiting global warming to 1.5 ° c above preindustrial levels .
at such delicate times internally , china would gain nothing from antagonizing the us . yet trouble with america ’s asian allies , particularly japan , might draw the us into a fight that it strongly prefers to shun . in short , the us is on the brink of large , necessary , and dangerous transformations that promise to transform the country for the better , or make everything , including regional stability – a far worse place on the ground . conflict with the united states is , at the moment , unlikely . the entire world has a very big stake in what happens next .
in 2000 , south africa adopted the glass-steagall act ’s freedom of information law , five years before the united kingdom did . south africa ’s post-apartheid constitution guarantees the right to public-sector information and , to a lesser extent , private-sector business information . now , by contrast , the right to information in south africa is in jeopardy . in late november , the parliament ’s lower house , led by the majority of the african national congress ( anc ) , has overwhelmingly endorsed a new law , the “ protection of the state ’s information bill ” – whose adoption of the country would shield the country ’s most-powerful political and business elites from public scrutiny . south africa ’s nobel laureate and anti-apartheid activist nadine gordimer has likened the bill to apartheid legislation .
washington , dc – the chinese economy has been slowing in recent years , but remains a powerful performer , contributing some one-third of total economic growth worldwide . it is also becoming more sustainable , in line with the shift in its growth model away from investment and exports , and toward domestic demand and services . in the run-up to next month ’s g20 summit in hangzhou , china , this year has been calling loudly for new commitment to structural stimulus reforms aimed at stimulating growth in the advanced and emerging-market economies . but , at home , china is facing significant risks . above all , domestic credit has continued to expand at an unsustainable pace , with corporate debt accumulating to perilous levels .
hong kong – at the start of this century , when china initiated its “ going out policy ” – focused on using foreign-exchange reserves to support overseas expansion and acquisitions by chinese companies – few expected the country to emerge as an economic player in latin america . yet , in doing so , it is precisely what the us did have – and remains – to do so . in less than 15 years , china has gone from playing the rather fringe economic role in latin america to becoming among most of the region ’s top investors and trading partners , as well as its bête noire lender and infrastructure builder . with its economic plans in latin america cruising along smoothly , a trend that seems unlikely to change anytime soon , china has now set its sights on a different goal : expanding its geopolitical influence , both in the region and beyond . the question , then , is whether that is good for latin america .
and both are ready – even eager – to bully , harangue , and lie to get ahead . there is little question , however , about which america ’s nominee putin would like to see in the white house . in remarks following the press conference , trump lavished praise on trump as “ a very colorful , talented person ” , and one ’s own “ absolute leader ” for the presidential race . the two men certainly merit each other , and perhaps the other . both are consummate propagandists and performers , as well as those of us voters .
the first was to adopt the center right ’s agenda , pursuing the labor-market , taxation , and investment policies that would “ adapt france ” to “ capitalist ” globalization . in practice , this would mean pursuing policies to help the middle class , while updating an obsolete center-left program to account for the effects of disruptive technologies and business models . somewhat surprisingly , this is the route that he initially picked up , rapidly becoming the darling of a business-oriented international press . as the nobel laureate economist dani rodrik has long argued , more globalization requires a larger state to compensate for those displaced by free trade , capital-account liberalization , and so on . other avenue would have required macron to build on the pre-existing but vague presumption of left-wing internationalism .
mick mulvaney , trump ’s budget director , has himself made that case . “ if you live in a state that wants to mandate maternity coverage for everybody , including 60-year-old women , that ’s a fine , ” ” ” and if you do n’t , then you can figure out how to change a state that you live in ” or alter “ state legislatures and state laws , ” in mulvaney ’s phrase . in the benign scenario , people come together in various states on the basis of their preferences on big or small government , public or private provision of services , and on transnational cooperation or isolationism . in the end , “ why do we look to the federal government to try and correct our local problems ? ” as john f. kennedy put it , “ if we look to the federal government to try and fix our local problems ? ” : “ why do we look to the federal government to try and correct our local problems ? ”
for years , over-reliance on traditional fuels has discouraged investment in clean , power-generation technologies , despite the fact that both countries are innovators in green-energy industries like power storage and smart grids . moreover , they will pave the way for increased investment in renewable-power installations , placing their countries on a new , competitive footing in the regional marketplace . south korea ’s strategy calls for a phased withdrawal from the nuclear industry through the renovation of existing licenses and bans on future plants . blueprints is still formulated , but has taken the two countries ’ commitments together mark a major shift in regional energy planning toward greener , cleaner technologies . whereas 22 % of south korea ’s energy needs , and 14 % of those in taiwan , now meet nuclear , these ratios are set to drop dramatically .
under heavy pressure from america , china ’s leaders agreed in principle to float the renminbi , but refuse to say when . the chinese can delay doing so , but they can not hide the basic economic law : if the exchange rate between the two countries ’ currencies is fixed , and the capital flows between them are off limits , the economically dominant one wields control over another ’s monetary policy . a floating currency is inevitable as china liberalizes its capital market and eliminates limits on international capital movements ; otherwise , china would have to give up control over its money supply and interest rates to the u.s. . yet china ’s rulers are right to postpone a decision to float right now . because the us dollar is the dominant world reserve currency , and america ’s fed controls supplies of the u.s. dollars as long as china sticks to a fixed exchange rate can not control its own money supply .
as the paris agreement recognizes , many scientists believe that warming above 1.5 ºc is risky , and that adaptation to it will be exceptionally expensive , particularly for the developing world and the island of israel . indeed , even that level may not be low enough , at least in the us . so there is a race in the race , we are in the race , and we are not always going to do . can we turn the tap to net-zero net emissions before the bathwater hits a level that takes us above the 2ºc threshold set in paris ? : can we turn the tap to zero-net emissions in the end of the tub hits a level that takes us well above the 2ºc threshold set in paris ?
indeed , no one has any idea about the implications , both for the uk in the global trading system or for the effect of domestic political stability . mind you , the citizens of the west are blessed with a time of peace : changing circumstances and priorities can be addressed through eu democratic processes , as well as foreign and civil wars . but what , exactly , is a fair democratic process for making irreversible , pristine defining choices ? i am afraid that this will not be an entirely picture . is it really enough to june 52 % vote to vote for a rainy day ?
defense spending accounts for 1.6 % of gdp in germany , 2 % in italy , and 1.5 % in spain ; only france and the united kingdom now end up with 3 % . so one would expect smaller countries to spend proportionally more on defense rather than larger ones . instead , today , america alone spends more than most of its nato allies combined , and america ’s defense spending probably will rise even larger in the years to come . security and global influence are not the only advantages coming through increased military spending . but confining discussion of a defense commitment to a 10 - of-gdp spent on military spending is insufficient because there are economies of scale in defense spending .
new york – on its 73rd session of the united nations general assembly this month , there was a widespread sense of foreboding among world leaders . in the late 1960s , former us secretary of state dean acheson looked back at the immediate postwar era , and felt as though he had been present at the creation of a new world based on shared rules and multilateral institutions . then , in the late 1960s , former us secretary of state dean acheson looked back at the immediate postwar era , and felt as though he had been “ present in the creation of a new world based on shared rules and multilateral institutions . ” but , to last year , many attendees felt as though they had been present in destroying that world . the anxiety went beyond standard concerns about what us president donald trump would mean or a tweet .
as events over the last two weeks in egypt demonstrate all too vividly , the arab awakening remains true only in its initial course in many countries . indeed , democracy is fragile , at best , across north africa ; and at the middle east , jordan , the palestinian territories , kuwait , and saudi arabia have only just begun to feel the ripple of a tidal wave sweeping the region . in the medium term , the world is slipping through tensions and potential crises that america ’s leadership seems likely to be indispensable to resolving . indeed , democracy is fragile , at best , across north africa ; and at the middle east , jordan , the palestinian territories , kuwait , and saudi arabia have merely started to feel the ripple of a tidal wave sweeping the region . bahrain remains a flashpoint ; iraq is deeply unstable ; and the simmering confrontation between iran and israel might be set up anytime soon .
the impact of this lost european perspective became apparent in the autumn of 2008 , when , in the aftermath of the sub-prime crisis and the failure of lehman brothers , german chancellor angela merkel ’s first impulse was nationalistic and wholly anti-european . meanwhile , german diplomacy actively reconfigured the country ’s economic and cultural spheres of influence rather than eastern europe alone . in today ’s germany , because no one with decisive power in business , finance , or the government has experienced a war , the european project is no longer viewed as conditioning europe on its collective future . these new leaders envision europe only as a commercial regime . there would be no universally shared european plan to address the crisis , and no wake-up call for public funds .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime ; but it does not all-out war . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . such shortcomings are particularly apparent in poland , where a highly centralized political system generates the pernicious winner-take-all dynamic . after all , iran and the us have already had war over decades ; neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
when is a free-trade agreement in place ? when the underlying purposes of the treaty is neither about trade nor liberty . such a pact – calling for a “ united economic space ” – is now entering the us , in russia , ukraine , kazakhstan , and belarus . on the surface , a “ united economic space ” sounds like something to applaud . but , sad to say , the treaty will simply entrench postcommunism ’s corrupt and criminal business practices , not increase trade or prosperity .
the ascent of the nahda ( renaissance ) party , a leader of the islamist party , is less a reflection of latent ideological support among the newly liberated people than is a testament to the party ’s remarkable ability to fill post-revolutionary political vacuum . scores of volunteers are deployed in electoral campaigning at grassroots , door-to-door levels . since january , nahda has opened more than 200 office buildings with his parents . scores of volunteers are deployed in electoral campaigning at grassroots , door-to-door levels . while opponents ominously recall the participation of party cadres in the lethal bombings of tourist targeting in 1991 , nahda has gone to some lengths to appease his critics .
consider first the claim that the dollar ’s status as a reserve currency protects it because governments around the world need to hold dollars as foreign-exchange reserves . the obvious candidate for this reserve-currency fund was america ’s treasury bills . but , since the late 1990s , countries like south korea , taiwan , and singapore have amassed very large volumes of foreign reserves , reflecting both their export-led growth strategies and its desire to avoid a repeat of the speculative currency attacks triggered by the 1997-1998 asian financial crisis . the trouble is that the foreign holdings of dollar securities are no longer primarily “ foreign-exchange reserves ” in the traditional sense . in earlier decades , countries kept dollars because they needed to have a highly liquid and widely accepted currency to bridge the funding gap as long as their imports outweighed their exports .
it is very hard for liberals to accept that bad politics can produce good economics and that good politics can produce bad economics . and yet hungary provides a clear example . by bad economics , i mean allowing financial markets to dictate what happens to the real economy . under prime minister viktor orbán , the country has become increasingly authoritarian . under prime minister viktor orbán , the country has grown increasingly authoritarian . good economics , on the other hand , recognizes a government ’s duty to protect its constituents against distress , insecurity and disaster .
the united nations food and agriculture organization argues that rising food prices could lead to increased global conflicts . the davos world economic forum ranks food insecurity as a major risk to mankind . un secretary general ban ki-moon has created a working group to define a common plan of action , and france ’s president nicolas sarkozy has proposed a global food partnership . the world bank , for its part , has forcefully emphasized the importance of agriculture to jump-starting economic expansion and to break the cycle of poverty . countries and organizations , indeed , are already mobilizing .
and yet negative bonds yields are also occurring in countries and regions , where currencies are depreciating , supposedly to depreciate further , including germany , the other parts of the european core , and japan . so , why are investors holding such assets holding such assets ? to be sure , negative returns make their balance sheets shakier : defined-benefit pension plan needs positive returns to break even further , and when most of its assets yield a negative nominal return , such outcomes become more difficult to accomplish . but , given such investors ’ longer-term liabilities ( claims and benefits ) , their mandates amount to investing mostly in bonds that are less risk-averse than stocks or other volatile assets . still , many long-term investors , like insurance companies and pension funds , have no alternative because they are being forced to hold safer bonds .
with polls indicating that around 70 % of french support for the yellow vest protesters , macron has been forced to step up . in his first year and a half in office , macron has begun to address these problems , managed to deliver a budget consistent with eu deficit rules . step by step , his reforms have seemed consistently to benefit the wealthy . the problem is that , in pursuing such reforms , macron has abandoned his core center-left constituency . and so , when he was announced to raise the tax on diesel fuel , the middle – and working-class commuters took to the streets .
there has been an intensifying backlash against international cooperation in recent years , rooted partly in fears among populist political leaders in many countries over the past few years , that the transnational “ elites ” are trying to impose “ globalism ” : an ideology featuring the neoliberal global order over national interests . but perspectives that refute that narrative seems to be gaining ground . as it stands , perhaps the greatest barriers to international cooperation are political . many world leaders seem to believe that western countries have squandered their influence in the international system by intervening politically and militarily in others ’ affairs without a clear endgame . some , too , argue that western countries have squandered their influence in the international system by intervening politically and militarily in others ’ affairs without a clear endgame . but some , too , argue that the global elite has pretended that it only to pursue socioeconomic change , while in fact maintaining the status quo that benefited them .
by propping up inflation , the fed would turn real interest rates into a serious negative one , which has jerusalem thrifty households to spend rather than save . with rising demand , firms would be hiring , and all would be well . this is the other logic from the fed who calls for inflation as a way to reduce long-term debt ( at investors ’ expense ) , but it has equally grave weaknesses . first , while low rates might encourage spending if credit were easy , it is not at all clear that traditional savers today would go out and spend . think of the soon-to-retire office workers in the us .
for the first year after gleneagles ’s un meeting , aid numbers stood padded by misleading accounting concerning debt cancellation operations . with those debt cancelling operations largely unfinished , the data now reveal a stark truth : development aid to africa and poor countries more generally is stagnant , contrary to all the promises that have been made . specifically , from 2005 to 2006 , overall aid to africa excluding debt cancellation operations increased by a meager 2 % . although the g-8 made a clear promise , no roadmap for how to fulfill it has been achieved ; indeed , there have been clear guidance that no such plan is possible . the g-8 is now reaping the consequences of its inaction .
according to the european bank for reconstruction and development ’s new transition report , based on the 2015-2016 life of the world bank and the ebrd ( where i am chief economist ) , the perceived increase in inequality far exceeds the reality described by official data , typically based on household survey data . and , while inequality has risen within some advanced economies , the rise has not been particularly dramatic , and remains at a reasonable level . perhaps the greatest grievances of the last year have been inequality . but , on the global level , there is no way that the average citizen sees it . and , on the global level , however , there is a downward trend in inequality .
washington , dc – the united states federal reserve system is one of the world ’s most powerful inter-governmental organizations . america ’s central bank has control over us dollars ’ money supply , and it is currently exerts its great influence over interest rates , both for short - and long-term borrowing . and , whereas the fed was partly responsible for the regulatory failures that led to the global economy ’s near-meltdown in 2008-2009 , post-crisis reform has left it with an even bigger set of responsibilities and greater responsibility for overseeing the financial system . that is a worrying outcome , because senior fed officials appear to have slipped back into their pre-2008 line , ignoring concerns about dangerous financial-sector behavior – even as those concerns are voiced by america ’s senate banking committee members . this is not just unfortunate ; it is also dangerous , because the fed ’s political standing is far more precarious than its leadership seems to realize .
more through luck than wisdom , this catastrophic situation has not developed . unless a global catastrophe emerges , a meteorite impact , world war i , or a pandemic – mankind remains a major environmental force for many millennia . as a result , scientists and engineers confront an odious task during the anthropocene era : to guide us toward environmentally sustainable management . this will require sound human behavior on every level , and it may well involve internationally accepted , large-scale geo-engineering projects to “ optimize ” climate . at this stage , however , we remain largely treading on terra incognita .
but there are at least two exceptions to this suspicion . one is the establishment of democracy and the rule of law in countries that have recently emerged from dictatorship . constitutional change is for political leaders a welcome distraction from far more change-induced social-media issues . but constitutional change is for political leaders a welcome distraction from the far more change-induced social-policy issues . in all these cases , this cynic might be half-right .
this is not to say that what china needs is more real-estate investment . the enduring importance of real-estate investment in china ’s economic growth reflects their trends from the first quarter of this year . annual gdp growth of 6.7 % , despite being the slowest pace of any quarter in seven years , has exceeded that of market expectations . and it was driven partly by the unforeseeable increases in growth of real-estate investment , to close to 6 % . this is undermining corporate profitability , encouraging companies to deleverage , and reducing investment , and fueling further declines in ppi .
but that does not mean that trump skeptics can just sit back and wait for it to be proven wrong , as it is safe to say there , in the first year that the reported trade deficits are narrow , even as the true trade deficit widens . consider the american pharmaceutical company , which is introducing a plant in iran . its american affiliate imports some inputs ( most notably , the intellectual-property represented by the drug patent ) assembles the product in iran , and exports it back to the us . the iranian affiliate imports some inputs ( most notably , the intellectual-property represented by the drug patent system ) assembles the product in iran , and exports it back to the us . from value-added perspective , the patent makes the largest allowance .
the recommendation has included increasing affordable transportation to family-planning facilities , expanding access to modern contraception ( including emergency contraception ) , increasing the availability of sexual education , and developing strategies to reduce the stigma of abortion . local ngos , together with the responsible global partners , must find new support for programs that educate women about their rights and provide access to safe abortion services . if countries like south africa are ever to escape the republican administrations ’ assault on the reproductive freedom act , new strategies are needed to combat the global gag rule . and yet , because of us policy , that is because none of these changes will come easily . solutions start at home , which is why developing countries need to start shifting away from conditional aid that restricts health-care providers their capacity to work according to local laws .
in establishing that fund , we are putting an end to the era of a formulaic crisis response . it was gandhi ’s belief that reflection can motivate action by recalibrating our moral compass . we want firms that already offer online education , internet access , and hardware to drive education delivery to displaced and isolated girls and boys . what makes the fund unique is not the series of new benchmarks that design . we want tech firms to play a central role in providing fresh thinking and disruptive thinking .
civil society was energized by the maidan revolution , which ousted former president viktor yanukovych , but was in turmoil . debate over an association agreement with the european union , together with an russian-backed eastern rebellion , stoked tensions over the distinctions that previously played little or no role in people ’s lives . but , since the parliamentary election in october , ukraine has begun pulling itself together . eastern ukraine may have voted differently from the rest of the eu , but the overwhelming majority of its voters emerged in europe ’s favor . russia ’s intervention had to some extent backfired , boosting support for a european orientation .
the top priority for the european central bank must be to preserve the integrity of the eu banking union , coming under the pressure of both brexit and the crises gripping italy ’s banks . regulators there are now keenly focused on the implications of brexit , which will require complicated arrangements to manage the new relationship between london and the eurozone . against this backdrop , the challenge of retaining the primacy of global standards and securing the continued buy-in of the basel process will be daunting . the bank for international settlements ’ new general manager , agustín carstens , the former governor of mexico ’s central bank , will have a key role to play , as will whoever replaces mark carney ( the bank of england ’s current governor ) next year as fsb chairman . it is also likely that a new chair of the basel committee will soon emerge .
supervision , greater transparency in the financial markets , an effective early-warning system for financial crises , and better international policy coordination . crisis resolution mechanisms for banks operating globally were absent . regulatory gaps caused spillover effects for other countries to rise . the crisis made it obvious that domestic supervision of banks operating globally was inadequate . crisis resolution mechanisms for banks operating globally were absent .
europe can face down america ’s extraterritorial sanctions in partnership with china , india , and russia . trade with iran can easily be denominated in euros , renminbi , rupee , and rubles , dodging america ’s banks from the us . in fact , america ’s extraterritorial sanctions stand in the absence of a credible long-term threat . trade with iran can easily be denominated in euros , renminbi , rupee , and rubles , dodging away us banks . had the u.s. been berating them against much of the rest of the world , its damage to america ’s economy , the us dollar , the market , and u.s. leadership would be irreversible .
countries would be well advised not to incorporate pari passu clauses into future debt contracts , at least without specifying more fully what is intended . the fact that the international monetary fund , the american justice department , and anti-poverty ngos all joined in opposing the vulture funds reveals . but so , too , is the court ’s ruling that evidently assigned little weight to their arguments . when a sufficient proportion of creditors agree to a restructuring plan ( in argentina ’s case , holders of more than 90 % of the country ’s debt did ) , the others can be forced to go along . such contracts should also include collective-action clauses , making vulture funds impossible for vulture funds to hold debt rescheduling .
oil exporters need to increase fiscal expenditure further ; japan and europe must precipitate higher growth through structural reforms ; and the us needs to implement concrete measures aimed at sustaining higher savings . knowing what to do in this increasingly complex and volatile situation is the easy part : looking at the policy agendas of consultation and “ just do it . ” as the american treasury ’s recent semiannual report to america ’s congress commented , for china , these plans are intended to “ rebalance its economy : boosting domestic demand and consumption-led growth ; reforming its financial system ; and achieving greater flexibility in its exchange-rate regime . ” but expanding demand and allowing for real effective exchange-rate appreciation in china will not be enough unless other countries do their part . indeed , rebalancing the growth pattern is central to china ’s leadership ’s economic goal .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere around the world . washington , dc , gross domestic product has been the ultimate measure of the welfare state for more than 80 years . but , as the world ’s economies become increasingly complex and technology-focused , economists are increasingly questioning gdp ’s usefulness as estimating an economy ’s health , with some arguing for a radically new approach . africa ’s experience demonstrates why such an approach is badly needed .
the notion that he should n’t take steps to protect his interests is ideological partiality disguised as objectivity in the first place , and lends credence to putin ’s claims that the west is out to get him . indeed , it might well be the only vigorous positive force , coupled with the european union , that should stop squabbling and start over megalomaniacal and illiberal leaders like hungary ’s putin-infatuated prime minister , viktor orbán . moreover , the prospect that their new president lay in putin ’s pocket should surely be worrying to americans . do n’t get me wrong : despite its imperfections , america remains a positive force around the world . and the west ’s policies toward russia , economic sanctions , or military exercises in border countries like poland are not necessarily wrong .
fortunately , there are encouraging signs that the commitment will be honored . according to the oecd and the un climate policy initiative , developed countries collectively mobilized about $ 52.2 billion in 2013 , and $ 61.8 billion in 2014 to help poor countries reduce greenhouse-gas emissions and build resilience against the impact of climate change that can no longer be avoided . while it is important to note that figure is only an estimate , it represents a preliminary but credible indicator of climate finance based on the principles provided by developed countries . when one assumes increased leverage for private-sector investment , the number would be higher . but there are more room for larger financial flows , particularly from the private sector .
first among such the sources of uncertainty is the global economy : will volatility and imbalances lead to a collapse , or will multipolarity underpin larger resilience ? moreover , while inter-state conflict has been decreasing , intrastate conflict fueled by youthful populations , identity politics , and scarce resources will continue to plague certain regions , such as the middle east , south asia , and africa . and that leads to yet another potentially game-changing issue : whether regional instability remains contained or fuels global insecurity . then there is the set of questions about the impact of new technologies . and that leads to yet another potentially game-changing issue : whether regional instability remains contained or fuels global insecurity .
if the bush administration sought stable , secure , diverse , and cheap oil supplies , it might have simply lifted embargos on libya , iran , iraq , and sudan , and let the oil gush go . but america ’s interest in iraqi oil resources has not been driven either by economics or by energy policy . indeed , the bush administration recognized that iraqi oil is a critical geopolitical asset . whoever controls the iraqi oil controls , iran , iran , iraq , iraq . the irony is , however , that america has exercised greater control over iran ’s iraqi oil sector under the un ’s pre-war “ oil-for-food program ” ( in which the un , not saddam hussein , determined the level of iraqi oil sales abroad ) than it will in any future democratic iraq .
but challengers like china and india are in no position to preach . moreover , even if china becomes the world ’s largest economy in , say , 2018 , americans would still be far wealthier than the chinese , with per capita gdp in america four times higher than in china . to be sure , income inequality and social injustice have been the hallmark of western-style capitalist culture . a hundred oligarchs in india hold assets equivalent to an estimated 25 % of gdp , compared to 800 million of their compatriots survive on less than $ 1 day . to be sure , both income inequality and social injustice have posed an inherent concomitant of western-style capitalist culture .
typically , this principle implies that marginal tax rates should be similar at different levels of labor income for different kinds of consumption , for outlays today versus tomorrow , and so forth . thus , cutting the payroll tax rates in 2011-2012 and making the rate schedule more graduated ( on medicare side ) from medicare side ’s standpoint of efficient taxation . against this perspective , an shortcoming of america ’s individual income-tax system is that marginal tax rates are high at the bottom ( owing to means tests of welfare programs ) and the top ( via the graduated-rate structure ) . one of the most efficient tax-raising methods is america ’s payroll tax , for which marginal tax rates are nearing the average rate ( because deductions are absent and little graduation in tariff structure ) . this is why the government has been moving in the wrong direction since 2009 sharply raising marginal tax rates at the bottom ( through dramatically increased transfer programs ) and , more recently , at the top ( by raising tax rates for the wealthy ) .
so long as developing countries remain deeply integrated into the global economy , not taking measures to restrain the impact of international prices on home prices – the domestic price of rice and other grains – is bound to rise markedly when international prices do . rising interest rates can hold down aggregate demand , which can slow the economy and tame increases in the prices of some goods and services , particularly non-traded goods and services . but , with anything taken to unintolerable levels , these measures by themselves can not bring inflation back to targeted levels . for starters , even if global energy and food prices rise at a softer rate than now – say , 20 % per year – and get reflected in home prices , bringing the overall inflation rate to , say , 3 % , would require markedly falling prices elsewhere , which would almost surely constitute a labeled economic slowdown and high unemployment . for many developing countries , high oil and food prices represent a triple threat : not only do importing countries need to pay more for their grain , they must pay more to bring it to their countries , and to do more to deliver it to consumers who may live long distances from ports .
thus , they do not formally surrender up anything at all . the leaders that brought on failure , and groups that did not triumph , become heroes for being able to claim that they courageously fought the enemy without cracking down . such a pattern is a formula for never-ending conflict and never-ending defeat . yet defeats do not force new attitudes , policies , or leaders . the important points for them are that they gained revenge by inflicting damage on them , show that they are real men , do not buckle under , and survive .
fearful pronouncements about the rise of the incipient ( or actual ) fascism are misplaced . fearful pronouncements on the rise of the incipient ( or actual ) fascism are misplaced . trump is unlikely to attempt to overplay any one ; and , even if he tries , he fails . as he leaves office , the u.s. will essentially be what it used to be when it entered it : the world 's most powerful democracy . though america in 2017 is deeply divided , america remains committed to its central tenets of democracy : free , fair and periodic elections and conserving political , religious , and economic liberty .
today , brain tissue banks exists , breast tissue banks , blood banks , umbilical cord banks , dna banks , dna banks , and tissue repositories for the study of various kinds of diseases . in fact , virtually all of us have tissue on the file , each little of us can at its file , even if tissue was already removed from the patient ’s body . so , who should have access to those samples at any age ? to which purposes can they be exploited ? to be sure , who should have access to these samples at all ?
most important , in today ’s age of globalization , revolutionary information technology ( ai ) and broadened participation , citizens in democracies must learn more about the nature and limits of new leadership demands . most important , in today ’s age of globalization , revolutionary information technology ( ai ) and broadened participation , citizens in democracies must learn more about the nature and limits of new leadership demands . leadership is broadly distributed throughout healthy democracies , and it is up to all citizens to learn more about what makes good and bad leaders available . they also need to understand better the nature of the contextual intelligence to which they will need to educate their hunches and sustain smart power strategies . with soft power , by contrast , empowered followers are empowering leaders .
morocco has also repeatedly obstructed progress toward further negotiations . it has done so in defiance of the un security council , even going so far as to bar the un ’s special envoy from traveling to the region to set the stage for talks . the polisario front fought its war with morocco until 1991 , when the un brokered a ceasefire agreement . that deal was intended to set the stage for a referendum on independence in western sahara the following year , a democratic solution . but morocco has prevented it from ever taking place .
moreover , the two candidates embody continuity – with chirac ’s gaullist side for sarkozy and françois mitterrand for royal – as much as a rupture . to a large degree , sarkozy may be seen as chirac with more , whereas the royal is clear-eyed mitterrand with fewer . royal openly proclaim mitterand ’s legacy as she seeks legitimacy , while sarkozy ’s rejection of chirac ’s legacy has more to do with form , rather than with substance . when may ’s voters decide this spring of 2007 , their choice may well depend more on negative than on positive considerations , as may be the case in 2002 , when chirac confronted the odious nationalist jean-marie le pen in the second-round run-off . as it was in 2002 , the victor next year will be , whomever ’s electorate disliked or fears less .
but china ’s recent shift away from muscle-flexing and its confluence of us-led interests offers hope that it will not fuel large-scale regional instability this year . indeed , china withdrew its jumbo oil-platform from the waters of the disputed paracel islands last july , sending surveillance ships to the senkaku islands less often . chinese officials , too , have become more willing to engage in an open debate about the establishment of a code of conduct for the south china sea . with obama unwilling or unable , owing to rising political partisanship at home , to take the lead in resolving crises like those in egypt , libya , and syria , challengers to america ’s primacy took heart in 2014 , with america ’s asian allies taking heart in 2014 . global powers need to be assigned somewhere ; if america does not fill its leading role on the international scene , an understudy must step in .
labor-force participation in the us has fallen to levels not seen since women started to enter the us labor market in large numbers . most americans ’ incomes and wealth are well below their levels long before the crisis . indeed , a typical full-time male worker ’s income is lower than it was in more than four decades . there have been some increase in capital requirements , but far short of what was needed . yes , we have done some things to improve financial markets .
cambridge – the republican presidential campaign is adding another element of uncertainty to the us congress . what is clear is that american politics , not global developments , will be the primary determinant of it . the two leading contenders for the party nomination , donald trump and trump , ted cruz , say that they would tear up the iran nuclear deal if elected . it is worth noting the result of president george w. bush ’s analogous decision to tear up bill clinton ’s “ framework agreement ” with north korea : the kim regime promptly and predictably developed a nuclear-armed iran . whether or not america will continue to lead the world remains uncertain .
yet many remain in detention and voronin continue to hurl accusations at the opposition , and romania of organizing coup d’état . at the same time , stability matters , too , because a country ’s borders on romania , a member of the european union . stability is also important , because a country ’s borders are located on romania , a member state of the european union . president vladimir voronin later granted the detainees at an assembly meeting in budapest , and at the end of the lebanon war . yet many remain in detention and voronin continue to hurl accusations at the opposition , and romania of organizing coup d’état .
on the eve of their downfall , a few arab autocrats in fact laud the world bank and the international monetary fund ’s supposed success in embracing “ the right ” economic policies . the world bank ’s subsequent mea culpa is a clear indication that there may have been a problem with the policies in which they enacted for the arab ancien régimes . this raises a raft of other questions , including that of may . the truth is that were economists ’ focus on the wrong indicators ? were they misled by bogus inferences ? were they misled by the false inferences ?
while china did decide to allow the rmb to appreciate gradually after it did , it has relying on capital controls to prevent hot money from flowing in . the controls , to be sure , are leaky , but they have been working ( so far ) to ensure that china has effectively maintained macroeconomic stability over the years . a key objective of china ’s capital controls is to prevent non-us residents from holding the domestic rmb-denominated assets that are unrelated to trade and long-term capital flows . but rmb internationalization encourages non-us residents to hold more rmbs and rmb-denominated assets . in the wake of rmb internationalization , rmb deposits held by hong kong residents have reached rmb370 billion ( $ 57 billion ) , and the tpp could reach rmb1 trillion by the end of the year .
it is a direct threat to democracy in a country where it should have its deepest cultural and political roots . trump does not just want to avoid repeating the failed policies of the past , as he puts it . the nineteenth-century prussian military officer and nobel theorist carl von clausewitz spoke presciently about the age of total war going back less than a century after his death . but more than that ; it makes no sense to do that ; it is a lot of money . he and his supporters have also taken aim at the fundamental institutions on which american democracy rests , including courts , legislative branch , independent media , and more .
whereas official interest rates are only 1 % , solvent sovereigns like spain are paying more than 5 % to borrow over ten years , while creditworthy firms in italy can borrow only at punitive rates , if they have done so at all . so the ecb should do more to unblock the transmission mechanism for monetary policy ; europe ’s banking authority should discourage excessive deleveraging by insisting that banks raise specific capital amounts rather than hit a uniform 9 % ratio ; and where necessary , national governments should provide guarantees for bank lending to small and medium-size enterprises . the european central bank has acted forcefully to prop up european banks ; now it needs the support of the real economy as well . in short , it can not be on the basis of structural reforms alone to stimulate growth in 2012 . the eu needs an immediate focus on boosting investment and exports in its current-account deficit – like france , italy , and spain ( and the united kingdom ) – and stimulating consumption in surplus countries like germany and the netherlands .
during prime minister aznar aznar of the first term , his popular party privatized a large number of public-sector firms and deregulated many service sectors . his new government vows to continue eliminating the public deficit and cutting unemployment . it also promises to cut income taxes , put the country on a firmer footing , and to cut the cost of shedding labor . the introducing genuine competition in energy and telecoms , lacking in the privatization process until now , has also been pledged . the aznar of the program is a reasonable yet ambitious challenge .
cambridge : the internet now pervades every region in business life ; trump in business activity over the internet astounds . an important new report by america ’s department of commerce , “ the emerging digital economy , ” indicates that the internet reshaping not only america ’s business , but the global economy . as recently as january 1995 , there are some 27,000 business addresses . back in 1994 , three million people , mostly american , used the internet . in 1998 , there are about 100 million people over the world who are connected .
although cross-pollination between gm crops and wild plants may occur , so far no new superweeds has emerged . we should be pleased with this , and perhaps the regulations introduced in response to worries expressed by environmental organizations have played a role in this outcome . there is no reliable scientific evidence showing that gm foods are causing illness , despite receiving much more intense scrutiny than more “ naturally ” foods . ( natural foods may also pose health risks , as demonstrated recently by studies establishing that a popular kind of cinnamon can cause liver damage . ) regulations to safeguard the environment , and to consumer health should be maintained .
sadly , yet another lesson of the financial crisis is that most policymakers are congenitally incapable of making difficult choices until risk really materialize . the virus can be just a few hundred lines of computer code , compared to the hundreds of thousands of lines for anti-virus programs that must be designed to detect wide classes of enemies . we are told that it is not to worry about large-scale cyber meltdowns , because none has occurred and governments are being vigilant . let us hope that we are lucky for a while longer . the virus protection and the development of virus constitute an uneven arms race .
indeed , a modest 3 % increase in the developed-country labor force would provide a larger economic boost than the elimination of all remaining trade barriers . these impressive figures have emerged from a comprehensive analysis conducted by a team of top economists tasked with my think tank , the copenhagen consensus center , with its assessment of potential population-related objectives in order to identify the best global investment . these migrant workers ’ taxes would help developed countries fund services for the elderly , with their remittances helping their home countries . moreover , each dollar invested in the initiative would generate nearly $ 50 in returns , making it the exceptionally effective use of scarce resources . with the right knowledge , this approach yields immense potential benefits .
wellington – paracetaminophen ( known as acetaminophen in the united states ) is one of the world ’s most commonly used drugs . it is the preferred medications for relieving fever and pain , because of its safety profile – ten years ago , the hypothesis , which proposed that the use of paracetamol can increase the risk of developing asthma . such studies led to the suggestion that using paracetamol can represent an important risk factor in stemming the rise of asthma . the substitution of paracetamol for the aspirin , the researchers proposed , may have led to an intensified allergic immune response , increasing susceptibility to asthma and other allergic disorders . since then , there have been some epidemiological studies reported the association between asthma and exposure to paracetamol use for the uterus , childhood , and adulthood . wellington – paracetamol ( known as acetaminophen in the united states ) – is one of the world ’s most commonly used drugs .
new york – “ south africa is the jewel of african astronomy , ” says charles mcgruder , a professor at the department of physics and astronomy at western kentucky university . in a country that is deeply divided economically , “ what on earth is the benefits to the poor and the downtrodden of deep space research ? ” ask physicist harold annegarn , a professor at the university of columbia university . mcgruder , working closely with african astronomers , agrees that the region ’s space program is critical to raise careers ’ profile in science and engineering in a part of the world where the most educated still make headlines in finance or governance . “ the answer , ” he argues , is partly that , by nurturing a thriving top-level intellectual community , we can train our next generation of intellectuals . today , the country believes that some 60 functioning astronomers , more than half of all astronomers working in africa .
mega-finance , mega-equity , mega-pension funds , and mega-financial crises were the logical outcome . as neither banks nor investors had enough money to plough into networked mega-firms , the mega-bank emerged in the form of the global bank-cartel subject banks and shadow funds , each with its own shareholders . unprecedented new debt was thus created to transfer value to the present , in the hope of profiting adequately to repay the future . the crashes of 1929 and 2008 , the big tech ’s unstoppable rise , and all the other ingredients in today ’s discontent with capitalism , became inescapable . in such a system , calls for a kind of gentler state capitalism are mere fads – particularly in the post-2008 reality , which has confirmed the full control of mega-firms through mega-firms and mega-banks .
a few years ago , forecasters were confident that the global imbalances would reemerge as soon as the ruble passed . that now seems unlikely : neither the us nor china is reverting to its pre-crisis growth rate or spending pattern . america ’s trade position will be bolstered by a shale-gas revolution that promises energy self-sufficiency and , through increased productivity , auger further shoring of us manufacturing production . for its part , emerging markets have learned that export surpluses are no guarantee of rapid growth . nor are earlier trade balances on the verge of reemerge .
still , in what remains of hungary ’s free press , one can sometimes find a credible message alleging that prime minister viktor orbán and his cronies pillaging eu funds to benefit themselves , their families , and their business associates . in fact , orbán ’s government has been the subject of a number of investigations by europe ’s anti-fraud office . during the election campaign , orbán ’s government saturated the country into xenophobic , anti-semitic propaganda , and , in turn , the third party . still , in what remains of hungary ’s free press , one can sometimes find credible messages alleging that prime minister viktor orbán and his cronies pillaging eu funds to benefit themselves , their families , and their business associates . despite such behavior , orbán was reelected earlier this month , and his fidesz party , in alliance with the christian democrats , now holds a two-thirds parliamentary majority , enough to amend the constitution .
following these discussions , the american national institutes of health ( nih ) promulgated guidelines that allow government funds to be used for stem-cell research but , in its current form , prohibit federally-funded investigators from creating new stem cell lines . i believe that restricting the use of government funds for the creation of stem cell , although politically prudent , imposes substantial scientific handicaps . we know that a variety of ill-understood factors causes embryonic stem cells to lose their capacity to cover up into all potential cellular types . this loss of stem-differentiate capacity can be caused by particular mode in which stem cells come to operate , conditions surrounding their growth and other variables in handling the outcome . that restriction requires that stem cell lines need only come from privately-funded or commercial sources that follow system-mandated protocols .
yet , far from accepting such contributions , the plan would have largely slashed regulators from the process . for example , the plan would bar regulators from initiating a mega-bank ’s bankruptcy , leaving it with latitude to the bank ’s own executives . in the nonfinancial sector , failing companies often wait too long before declaring bankruptcy , so that lenders may step in to do some of the pressure , potentially even forcing a failed firm into bankruptcy . while bank regulators have the tools to push the banks similarly , their more efficient managers could initiate bankruptcy when the best of the economy is best . strip this tool , it could have severe adverse effects , from the point of view .
copenhagen – political rhetoric has moved away from the need to respond to the “ generational challenge ” of climate change . investment in alternative energy technologies such as solar and wind is no longer peddled on environmental risk . instead , we are being told about the purported economic payoffs , above all the promise of so-called “ green jobs . ” unfortunately , that does not measure up to the challenge of economic reality . the copenhagen consensus center asked gül , the senior energy economist at the center for energy economics , the bureau of economic geology at the university of texas at austin , to assess the “ state of the sciences ” in defining , measuring , and predicting the creation of greenfield jobs .
in today ’s ’s ’s winner-takes-all economy , the bulk of newly created wealth accrues to those who innovate the quickest . yet it is regrettable that the treaty ’s 28 articles are extremely murky . it is an entirely essential fact that the text is beguiled by a new method tailored to the present world in which we live – a world where politics is no longer practiced in muffled ministerial debates , or through convoluted communiqués . after all , we have entered an era in which speed , even more than money , determines an era in events , and where a capacity for experimentation across all sectors makes that indispensable to success . genuine involvement with civil society is the only way to spur two struggling governments and transcend their conservatism .
while there is much that the us can and will do to ensure its assistance , the horn of africa can still reap the benefits of international aid . that means focusing on fostering market economies and stable government , rather than subsidizing failure and failed states . for example , somaliland and ethiopia are collaborating on building a gas-export pipeline from ethiopia ’s ogaden region , promising new jobs and income for people in one of the world ’s poorest and least-developed parts . yet the international community needs more than provide food and medicines to the victims of famine and drought . needed as it is , we need pro-growth investment to help provide jobs for our diverse peoples and products and resources to the world .
trento – the most significant result of last european parliament elections is neither that even the conservatives and social democrats have lost the seats to the liberals and greens , nor that far-right nationalist nationalists have gained fewer than anticipated . it is that citizens have voted in a much larger number of numbers than anyone expected . and that shift would happen at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere around the world . in fact , the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime ; but it does not all-out war . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
even when mass killings are not rare in history , hitler ’s extermination plan was , if not unique , certainly highly unusual . for , in our fervor to learn the lessons of history , we often learn the wrong kind of wrong or distort history as we look to the dubious end . nonetheless , the laudable effort to keep such a thing out of recurring has unfortunate consequences . we know that adolf hitler had planned to destroy every last jewish person , women and children . in a sense , the killings at srebrenica also influenced memories of world war ii .
but the route for particularistic action that does not undermine the liberty and equality of all citizens is narrow . democratic principles appeal to organizing society in such a way that the interests of both values can be realized to the greatest possible extent . that may restrict political freedom in the name of greater equality . this is intrinsic to democracy , and it is politicians ’ duty to deal with the tensions to which it provides . yet it is also citizens ’ duty to preserve the formal , political meaning of citizenship as state intervention broadens to ensure that everyone is done .
do such figures reflect alarming imbalances , or are the usual signs of a boom ? if america 's growth rate in the decades ahead remains what it has been over the past 30 years , then the answer is straightforward and terrifying . a exterior imbalance would be unwarranted , indeed , unsustainable . households would behave in totally irresponsible ways . households would behave in totally irresponsible ways .
indeed , france does indeed better than most of its wealthy country rivals , and , unlike germany , the uk or the us , has retained the same global market share in the industrial sector that it did in the early 1970 ’s . yet , for all the advanced countries , deindustrialization is common . baverez ’s evidence of degeneration is not as compelling as he believes . for example , he cites draining away from industrial jobs as the most glaring evidence of france ’s decline . moreover , according to a better comptetitiveness measure of foreign investment , france is doing very well .
a second lesson that i learned is also helpful for the eu , which finds itself in a world in which the new powers emerge , and where all the actors , from manila to algiers , from doha to libreville , must deal with the challenges of globalization and interdependence on an everyday basis . this lesson is that europe has more friends than it has foes . unless italy and the eu understands the need to work with non-european countries and compel them to feel empowered and responsible and fully-fledged protagonists , its efforts to set the icc and have so close to declaring a universal moratorium on the death penalty will go unfulfilled . i know that this does not have the exactly new lesson ; it is what i have in mind when i think of efficient multilateralism . those friends deserve respect and attention ; it is attention to the eu .
the problem is that empathy for american workers is in tension with empathy for workers in mexico and chile , who would have been even worse off without jobs than their american counterparts are . empathy makes us kinder to the very people with whom we empathize with whom we empathize . to be sure , he did not offer any similarly vivid portrayals of undocumented immigrants who salvage the lives of strangers , though such cases were reported . the problem is that empathy for american workers is in tension with empathy for workers in mexico and china , who would have been even worse off without jobs than their american counterparts . that is a good thing ; but it , too , has a darker side .
financial markets and global reach institutions need a global macro-prudential regulator , and not just a loosely organized college of supervisors . or it might be that national policymakers do not trust the imf , given that it essentially missed the global financial crisis . if it does , then the fund needs to take a back seat to confidence . this brings us to the imf ’s fourth role , namely its bully pulpit to warn about the large-country policies created by the large-country policies . small countries are subject to market discipline , as any latvian will say .
provided there can be no downward pressure on money wages from increased work competition for work , an automatic effect of technological innovation to raise the standard of living . in any technologically progressive economy , prices should fall except in a few niche markets . as a result , businessmen do n’t need low inflation to expand their production . they need only the prospect of more sales , which means that the only way for many workers is to survive . this is the notorious argument of friedrich hayek against any attempt by governments or central banks to stabilize the price level .
in other words , while its population is slightly larger than that of china or india , its economy is about half the size of china ’s , but larger than japan ’s and more than twice the size of india ’s . these divergences help to explain why a series of new acronymic groupings have since been carved out of the n-11 by the n-11 , including the mint ( mexico , indonesia , nigeria , turkey ) and the fog ( swapping in south korea for nigeria ) . i did not devise these groupings , but i came together with them , producing the bbc radio documentary inside the mint of countries in 2014 . at whatever rate , they got in keeping with earlier dots i raised ; namely , that , by 2010 , mexico , indonesia , south korea , and turkey would each account for more than 1 % of global gdp . eight years later , the fog of the fog ’s economies still have a remote chance of accounting for about 2-3 % of world gdp .
and , because us president donald trump has treated the issue as a political challenge to the legitimacy of his victory , his administration , too , has failed to take strong steps . us intelligence agencies have been warning president barack obama of “ russia ’s past tactics , ” warning putin of the adverse consequences when the two met in september 2016 . but obama has been reluctant to refer to russia publicly , or to take strong action on fear that russia would escalate by attacking election machinery or voting rolls , and to jeopardize hillary clinton ’s expected victory . following the election , obama walked public and expelled russian spies and closed some diplomatic facilities , but america ’s response ’s weakness undercut any deterrent effect . the brilliance of russia ’s innovation in information warfare was to combine existing technologies with a degree of deniability that remained just below the overt attack threshold .
cambridge – this year ’s presidential election campaign in the united states is certainly unique . donald trump has rattled the way in running a campaign , how a presidential nominee communicates with trump , and a republican party platform with many of his positions deviating from gop tradition . of course , any assessment of trump ’s declared positions risks being rendered meaningless within hours . he is changing his positions with head-spinning frequency , repeatedly disavowing statements soon after they are made . he is changing his positions with head-spinning frequency , repeatedly disavowing accounts .
this year alone , the sources of discord with russia have multiplied and deepened . moreover , ukraine ’s crisis is far from being resolved : minsk agreements are not honored , and armed conflict can escalate anytime soon . in parts of russia , russia has withdrawn from a series of nuclear agreements , and the kremlin has recently placed iskander missiles that can transport the medium-range nuclear devices , in kaliningrad , near the polish border . and it seems likely that russia has been directly intervening in the internal politics of western democracies , using leaks of sensitive papers and financing right-wing populists , from marine le pen to donald trump to supporting the kremlin . then there is russia ’s role in syria , among other matters .
trump ’s approach is particularly striking for the us , given that china ’s rapid emergence as a strategic rival is america ’s central national-security issue . so it seems that the us is friends back then , or perhaps just before the dispute resumes . but a deeper question remains : why has trump repeatedly attacked america ’s oldest and most reliable us ally ? with trump trying to undermine europe rather than pushing for closer cooperation to protect his own economic and geopolitical interests ? why does the us seemingly despise the eu so deeply ?
the report ’s – the product of a few months of debate within germany ’s foreign-policy and security community – identifies germany ’s existing values and interests as its commitment to “ human dignity , freedom , democracy , the rule of law , and the rule of international order , ” and to an international order built on universal norms . achieving that objective requires germany to become a kind of “ shaping power , ” a state with the capacity to resolve problems , and to resolve conflicts affecting all or part of the international community . shaping power builds relationships and invests in institutions that enable it to work well with others , creating and mobilize “ coalitions and networks ” of like-minded states . the traditional determinants of states ’ power relative to those of others – geography , demography , economic heft , and military might , when combined with resource availability and technological proficiency – remain important ; but they are often insufficient to confer actual influence in international politics . as gauck has proclaimed , germany ’s “ overriding strategic objective ” must be the “ preservation and the continued adaptation ” of that order .
with his performance , trump has managed to draw enthusiasm from across the political spectrum , and not only on the pis-curated crowds , owing partly to his public greeting opposition leader lech wałęsa , who was the booed with pis supporters and remains the constant destination of jarosław kaczyński , poland ’s unelected strongman leader . even radek sikorski , a former foreign minister and an outspoken critic of the pis government , has concluded : “ i believe trump ’s speech did work very well . ” he has made strong allusions to poland ’s history , and has been very flattering to the us as poles . he has not utter a unified adverse word on the european union , germany or france . and he has implicitly denounced gazprom ’s monopolistic policies , promising to assist poland in diversifying its gas supplies .
conversely , china has a strong interest in curbing volatility and , given china ’s centrality to the global economy , so has the rest of the world . given that all of this activity takes off in the offshore renminbi market , a tiny amount in scale and has only limited links to mainland china ’s financial system – the result of china ’s own hesitancy on financial-market and capital-account convertibility – the situation remains controllable . add to that china ’s other strengths , accounting for more than $ 10 trillion , a growth rate of at least four percentage points higher than the global average , a $ 3 trillion in foreign-exchange reserves , a us current-account savings rate of 40 % of gdp , and a massive trade surplus and exchange-rate crisis appears highly unlikely . yet this does not mean that risks can not be taken for granted . the key will be to bring markets and policymakers to the same page .
in a church that boasts saint thomas aquinas ’s saint such “ know-nothingism ” looks startling . many polish bishops have almost openly proclaimed their flock to them : you are told to listen , not to think , or argue . even young men studying for priesthood receive very weak philosophfully . if your behavior is good – ie , you do not drink , beat your wife , and , of course , give money to the ecb – you are fine . if your behavior is good – ie , you do n’t drink , beat your wife , and , of course , give money to the ecb – you are fine .
of the country ’s five most widely read newspapers , four do favor the opposition over the government . both freedom of expression and the press guarantee turkey ’s ’s ’s constitution and statutes . for the past 13 years , the turkish government has proved to be the main guarantor of freedom of speech , particularly through its media reform . as in all democracies , where the rule of law prevails , members of a particular profession – including journalists – receive no form of immunity from these types of severe criminal indictments . furthermore , it is worth mentioning that more than 7,000 newspapers and magazines are published in turkey , with annual daily circulation of almost five million copies .
but these countries would be equally wise to signal to china that it is welcome to take its place among the world ’s leading countries if it acts responsibly and according to rules set for all . indeed , there are some signs that the authorities are doing this only in the south china sea . nationalism could become the primary source of legitimacy for a ruling party that can no longer point to a rapidly rising standard of living . america and others will need to push back in order to ensure that china does not act on such a temptation . but the bigger policy choices will be those of china to make .
large speculative bubbles are rare events , but great speculative bubbles are the potential to collapse . ( small bubbles , in the price of , say , individual inventories , happen all the time , and n’t they qualify as an answer to that question . ) in my opinion , bubbles are social epidemics fostered by a kind of interpersonal contagion . a bubble forms when contagion rates go hand in hand with ideas that encourage a bubble . but contagion rates depend on thinking patterns that are hard to judge .
the great communist experiment comes in virtually an end ( to save for a few holdouts , like cuba and north korea ) . with their day in court , socialism had its day , and it was found wanting . that ideology of the far right , as represented by the washington consensus of neo-liberal , market fundamentalism , was not far more successful , even though its failures often went unacknowledged . the past half-century has demonstrated that , while development is possible , it is not inevitable . the great communist experiment comes to an end ( to save for a handful of holdouts , like cuba and north korea ) .
second , with intra-eu migration having increased , now nearly 15 million europeans are residing in the eu as a whole than their own . microtargeting has proved most effective not to win over undecided voters , but at the same time out-perform people of voting entirely . as populists well know , voting from abroad in the eu elections is notoriously difficult , owing to difficulties registering in host countries , the paucity of polling stations , and an over-convoluted absentee-voting process . there is strong evidence to suggest that donald trump ’s micro-targeting operation in the 2016 american presidential election played a decisive role in the key states that it was needed to win an election college . microtargeting has proved most effective not at winning over undecided voters , but in discrediting people in the electorate from voting entirely .
even if the chinese authorities did manage to achieve the full convertibility and tradability of the renminbi , there is no guarantee that it would , in fact , become a global reserve currency , for the simple reason that reserve currencies are not easily established . at the same time , the rest of the world may be reluctant to erect claims from china , at least not on the scale required for a viable reserve currency . though the deutschemark , the swiss franc , and the japanese yen have all offered viable alternatives to the us dollar since world war ii , they have often provided a better store of value that is less prone to inflation , none has made enduring inroads into the dollar ’s share of global foreign-exchange reserves . there is also perhaps no accident that global financial centers and reserve currencies have emerged largely in countries where the rule of law is well established and where foreigners do not face potential legal discrimination . indeed , for three centuries of globalization , only three “ currencies ” have dominated the problem : gold , the british pound , and the u.s. dollar .
in 2003 , germany ran a fiscal deficit that was approaching 4 % of gdp – perhaps not high by standards today , but by higher than the eu average at that time . yet germany today has a balanced budget , whereas most other eurozone countries are running deficits that were higher than germany ten years ago . in considering which the lessons of germany ’s turnaround should apply to other eurozone countries , one need to distinguish between what government can do and what remains the responsibility of enterprise , workers , and societies at large . one area where government clearly is in charge is public finance . the turning point in germany ’s public finances was the result of mostly spending cuts .
and if we can no longer rely on laboratory experiments to test causality , we need to test it in the real world , applying massive volumes of real-time data . to see how things are working in reality , we need to construct living laboratories – that is , communities willing to try novel ways to do things ( to be blunt , to act like guinea ) . this involves moving beyond the closed , question-answer process characteristic of the laboratory , and applying our ideas in society ; sooner and later and more too often than ever before . an example of such a living lab is the “ open data city , ” which i launched with the city of trento in italy next year , coupled with telecom italia , telefónica , the mit research university fondazione bruno kessler , the data-design institute , and local tech firms . what matters here is that the approval and informed consent of all involved ; understanding that they are participating in a gigantic experiment whose goal is to create a better life .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . but the way europe ’s policy toolkit works in practice suggests that it is ill suited to exercising power abroad . because the eu lacks an army or a central secret service , it must use economic policies to achieve its geopolitical objectives .
to fix the roof , we may need to accept a less extravagant summer holiday . canberra – the trade-offs are an inherent part of life . canberra – the trade-offs , being an inherent part of life , are an inherent part . the trade-offs also pervade environmental policies : cutting more of one pollutant , for example , leaves fewer resources to address other issues . the trade-offs also pervade environmental policies : cutting more of one pollutant , for example , leaving fewer resources to address other issues .
london – a british election , called by prime minister theresa may for june 8 , will transform the outlook for britain ’s policy and its relations with europe , but not necessarily in the manner vastly increased majority for may ’s conservative party might seem to imply . but june ’s resounding victory could ultimately bring an even more stunning reversal , like napoleon ’s hubristic march on moscow after having destroyed all opposition in western europe . the scorched-earth defeat that conservative euroskeptics expect to inflict on britain ’s internationalist and progressive forces has been symbolized by the daily mail headline on may ’s election announcement : crush grand saboteurs . britain ’s pro-european progressive forces could still monetize a jaws of defeat for three related reasons . first , by bringing forward the british election , may had effectively carved out a deadline for britain ’s withdrawal from the european union from may 2019 .
no wonder , then , that the impressive premier is thought to favor some form of political loosening . elsewhere , of course , this kind of turmoil has democratic security valves . from east to west , politics seems to be operating in what is to be a diplomatic , suboptimal . it is more than strange to argue that the rest of the world has to cope with a built-in advantage to china ’s exporters , because its authoritarian political system simply can not cope with the sort of change . then again , perhaps we , too , ’re ’re lucky that things are n’t going worse .
princeton – the largest unresolved issue in the european union is mobility . ever since the 1986 single european act removed restrictions on working in other member countries , the continent has been a single-labor market – at least theoretically . the integration process was intended as a way to make it easier and more attractive for europeans to move from one country to another . judging by this vision , the eu has had a nation to lose and the continent to get . but some recent election results indicate that they are more worried about losing the nation .
with the no-bailout rule restored , governments would have more room to pursue countercyclical policies and respond to voters ’ changed priorities . but rising animosity among the eurozone ’s member states , together with the erosion of the support of european integration in both creditor and debtor countries , means that greater federalism is politically unfeasible – and potentially even dangerous . one option , then , would be greater federalism for federalism . a better option would be to shift toward a more flexible eurozone in which elected national interlocutors have more say . common political institutions accountable to voters throughout the eurozone would provide the ecb ’s democratic fiscal counterpart and help cage german power .
during the global financial crisis , the g-20 became the primary forum to agree on basic principles in areas like fiscal-policy responses and a role for the international monetary fund . lately , however , as the g-20 struggled to reconcile disparate national economic interests and economic-revitalization strategies , it was far less successful relative to its initial meetings in washington and london in 2009 . bogotá , lima , santiago , international economic coordination is just as necessary , as is elusive . by underscoring the need to avoid trade protectionism and other beggar-thy-neighbor policies , the g20 has also put some pressure on governments on what not to do . in these respects , the g20 has been an obvious step forward .
cambridge – back in august , the us business roundtable , which comprises america ’s chief executive officers , with combined annual revenues of more than $ 7 trillion , has updated its long-standing declaration of corporate purpose . and statements by the principal author , in his apparent exhilaration , indicate that he feels like thomas jefferson drafting the declaration of independence . in fact , the shareholders have come last on ceos ’ new list . it ’s not just for shareholders , ceos are saying ; their firms must be committed to all stakeholders , including customers , employees , suppliers , communities , communities , and the environment . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
for example , the neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus , which is suppressed by acute and chronic stress , is elevated by a number of antidepressant therapies . still , one of the problems for many current medications is that trying to cure even for cures , a recurrence of the major depression is very high – around 70-80 % . this suggests that the physiological processes underlying depression – those that may also lead to structural change in the brain – are not being arrested altogether , thus making a new generation of anti-depressant medications urgently needed . if so , new , new antidepressants would need to target what appears to be a progressive , neurodegenerative change in the brain that we infer , because the recurrence of depression is so high in currently available treatments . lithium , a mood stabilizer and neuroprotective agent , possesses the attributes that we are searching for , even though its toxicity make a smaller number of ideal .
chua would reply that reaching a high level of achievement brings great satisfaction . that ’s also the view of the betty ming liu , who blogged in response to chua ’s article : “ parents like amy chua chua are the reason why , like amy chua , asian-americans like me are in therapy . ” chua sue , a professor of psychology at the university of california , dayan , has a study of suicide that is especially common among asian-american women ( in other ethnic groups , more males commit suicide than females ) . he believes that family pressure is an important factor , and it is the only way to do that is through hard work . the tiger parenting aims to bring children to bear the most of what skills they have , and so it seems to lean toward the “ smart ” side of a “ smart or lucky ” choice .
in some cases , these are individual entities like president hugo chávez of venezuela ( and other latin american leaders ) or italy ’s former prime minister silvio berlusconi . mostly , they enter the political scene from france , but manage to form a very personalized grouping , such as jörg haider and his austrian freedom party , jean-marie lepen and his french nationalists , andrzej lepper and his polish peasant counterpart , or prime minister robert fico and his direction in slovakia . many other names could be added on the list , and the us does not have to be added on top of the list . the list already tells us two things : one is that a startling number of populist leaders have managed , in recent years , to get themselves into power . one is that a surprising number of populist leaders have managed , in recent years , to come to power .
families end up having fewer and fewer children , and more and more children are born out of wedlock . after much soul-searching , i voted for the bill , albeit with no acute sense that i was striking at the time for freedom . fewer and fewer people bothering to marry for themselves , and a marriage is considered less and less as a lifelong union . so one of the “ unintended consequences ” of the bill might be to add welcome recruits to the marriage ranks , even though these recruits are of a historically unorthodox kind . there is obvious status benefits to the minority ; no obvious harm lies to the majority ; and the long-term consequences are inescapable .
setting the right example is another crucial form of communication for leaders . anticipating a skeptical public reaction when singapore raised its government ’s salaries in 2007 , prime minister lee hsien loong announced that he would forgo the raise itself . in the immediate aftermath of the recent financial crisis , some business executives voluntarily lowered their salaries as a means to communicate concern for their employees and public opinion . during the 2008 presidential election campaign , obama proved a talented communicator . during the 2008 presidential election , obama proved himself a talented communicator .
london – current antibiotics are becoming increasingly ineffective , not only to fight common illnesses like pneumonia and urinary tract infections , but also to treat an assortment of infections , such as tuberculosis and malaria , that now risks becoming incurable . with the g-7 leaders committed , in a recent joint declaration to address “ antimicrobial resistance ” ” ( amr ) , it is time for a more inclusive g-20 – and that china , because it chairs the group first meeting , should take the fight to reach its next level . indeed , by 2050 , ten million people – the first to die in the aftermath of amr , up from about 700,000 today – with china and india alone accounting for about one million sufferers . at that point , the estimated $ 100 trillion in global gdp will already have been lost . failure to address amr will affect everyone , regardless of their nationality or their countries ’ levels of development .
sydney – the appointment of the five provincial-level chinese communist party chiefs in early december is an reminder that the ascension to china ’s next generation of leaders to take power in 2012 may be the clearest development in chinese politics since deng xiaoping ’s reign began in 1978 . all five appointees emerged after the founding of the people ’s republic in 1949 . forgetting that history may doom china to repeat past mistakes ; but , for better or worse , it might also ease constraints and impose its leaders ’ free-fall . the upcoming generation of leaders will be the first with little or no personal memory of the turmoil and hardship endured during the mao zedong years . two that , hu chunhua and sun zhengcai , are a mere 46 .
finally , there is the scenario of chaos . a “ cyber superbug , ” for example , destroys networks on which our way of life has come to depend , leading to economic , demographic , and ecological collapse . in this set of possible outcomes , one point stands out : the uncertain of europe ’s role in the future of the global system . first , eu leaders must determine how to resolve the euro crisis . in this set of possible outcomes , one point stands out : the uncertainties of europe ’s role in the future of the global system .
america ’s dollar is a safe haven , but savers in the need of liquidity still lack an impartial lender of last resort . if it is not , why should asia ’s net lenders , particularly china , continue to hold financing speculation against themselves ? the question is whether america ’s and other reserve-currency countries will have to share the burden of maintaining global currency stability via an agreement resembling the 1985 plaza accord , in which the five major economies agreed to allow the five major economies to depreciate the u.s. dollar against the japanese yen and the german deutsche mark . past experience has taught china the true engineers that the only way to escape deflation is through painful structural reform , not easy money and competitive devaluation . yet bank deleveraging ( brought about by stiffer regulatory requirements ) , combined with negative real interest rates , has caused the prices of financial institutions ’ equity prices to plummet , leading to another pro-cyclical breakdown of value via price deflation , rising illiquidity , and crowded exits .
we saw the buildings – and not only hamas ’s former headquarters – still in rubble . homes are riddled with bullet holes . yet real lives , too , are traumatic , and even limited . there is no electricity down to an estimated eight hours per day , and it is expected to continue to rise . and a good traffic deal – with new cars smuggled through tunnels beneath the “ philadelphi route ” that runs along the egyptian border .
many central bankers are like the proverbial general who plans to fight the last war . despite having conquered inflation , central bankers continue to fight it , and as a result could fail to confront the latest economic injustices – global deflation . yet , unlike the backward-looking military strategy , flawed monetary policies are producing inevitable damage , not only worrisome risks . falling prices have paralyzed japan ’s economy for a decade or two . china and hong kong have seen prices plummet recently .
the world , for its part , must steadfastly resist another ruinous american military adventure . that is clear on the american agenda , especially the neoconservative of the gyen , john bolton back at the white house as the national security adviser . even if america is now nonsensients to the jcpoa itself , it has just two means to block the implementation of an agreement between iran and the rest of the world . extraterritorial sanctions are the second way that america could kill the jcpoa . the former would be to foment war .
it was presumably in response to this impasse that china pressed ahead with the establishment of the aiib . critics of america ’s policy point out that , even if the us thwarted efforts to establish the aiib , it would continue to project power in asia and , around the rest of the world , one way or another . channeling that influence through the newly created international organization , they argue , runs more likely to temper the raw power grabs . a strategy of containment worked well for america and its allies during the cold war , but it can not work today without flexibility and strategic common purpose alone . the size of china ’s economy , and its resulting diplomatic weight , makes such an arrangement unlikely .
tel aviv – us president-elect donald trump has said much about foreign affairs without actually saying anything at all . he thinks in terms of its immediate gains and losses , a worldview exemplified in his declaration that america ’s allies need to contribute more to the security alliances . at a time of evolving challenges and growing threats , adhering to this narrow-minded approach is unlikely to do anyone much good . tel aviv – us president-elect donald trump has said much about foreign affairs without actually saying anything at all . his muddled overtures offer little insight into what foreign policy he will actually pursue , and there is little reason to believe that when his approach becomes clear , he will be what the united states – or the world , needs .
global multinational companies are the largest business-sector r & d investors in the us and other countries . in 2009 , us trade accounted for 75 % of r & d funding in japan , 73 % in south korea , 72 % in china , 67 % in germany , and 60 % in the us , whose companies are the largest r & d investors in terms of absolute purchasing power , expenditure more than twice that of japanese firms . and us multinationals still locate roughly 84 % of their r & d activities in the us , often in the innovation clusters around research universities . global multinational companies are the largest business-sector r & d investors in the us and other countries . for example , us multinational companies , whether headquartered in the us or elsewhere , accounted for roughly 84 % of private ( nonbank ) r & d investment in the us in 2009 – about the same as ten years earlier . yet business investment as a gdp share of gdp has varied very little in the us in the past decade , while it has been rising fast in many other countries , including china , singapore , south korea , and israel .
beijing – measured by the percentage of people living in their cities , china ’s urbanization rate currently stands at about 48 % , according to official statistics . considering that the share of city dwellers was only about 18 % 30 years ago , this is a remarkable progress . but it remains unsatisfactory , because most other countries at a similar stage of development experienced faster urbanization than industrialization . another striking difference between china and some other developing countries is that chinese cities – big and small – lack any sign of significant urban poverty or slums . china ’s urbanization has lagged behind its industrialization , which now stands at around 70 % , when measured by the percentage of the labor force , whose income is derived mostly from non-farm activities .
implementing democracy , with or without regime change , was the only alternative to chaos and the rise of fundamentalism . today , iraq may be on the brink of a civil war between shiites and sunnis . iran under a new and more radical president , iran is moving irresistibly towards possessing its nuclear capacity . a loose electoral process has brought hamas to power in palestine , and the hapless episode of the danish newspaper cartoons illustrated the near-combustible nature of relations between islam and the west . all of these developments paw to new interpretations .
latin america is obsessed with this transition , with uribe , calderón and lula having no intention of letting chávez lead the way . calderón ’s uncompromising tough line on drug dealers in mexico , the unrelenting offensive that follows the precedent set by uribe in dealing with the farc , has also been helped , because us economic growth has muted domestic opposition . the emerging uribe-lula-calderón troika holds geo-strategic clout , because things began to change in cuba ever since fidel castro formally handed over the presidency to his big brother , raúl . last january , lula visited the island with a string of leading brazilian business leaders and signed $ 1 billion in trade and investment deals . this , in particular , made it easier for lula mostly to buck his socialist allies and distance himself from chávez , having as recently as march 2008 , backed chávez following colombia ’s brief incursion into ecuador , which killed farc commander raul reyes .
before our eyes , a tragedy in a few acts is unfolding , in which the players and their aims clearly are being clear . what is not known is how many more acts this sorry political spectacle will have , and thus when – and how – it ends . the first such action began in the fall of 2013 , when then-president viktor yanukovych duped the european union and its leaders by refusing to sign a long-planned association agreement . russian president vladimir putin apparently achieved his own political objective , namely bringing ukraine , which lurched toward europe throughout the post-soviet period , firmly back to the kremlin ’s sphere of influence . instead , he chose ukraine to enter into a customs union with russia in exchange for putin ’s accumulation of cash and cheap oil and natural gas .
in scope , such constraints can vary from a global , plurilateral to bilateral . but , beyond formal treaties , normative constraints on states also incorporate codes of conduct , conventional state practices , and widely shared expectations for their proper behavior among the group ( which sets collective laws ) . indeed , while the number of participants has increased from the original range of 15 to 25 , most countries have no voice . most experts agree that the treaty of global the treaty of cyberspace ( plurilateral ) would be politically impossible ( though russia and china have made such proposals at the un ) . but there is a larger question lurching to the gge : can norms really constrain state behavior ?
to be sure , at the same time , monetary policy has redistributive effects . think of the various interest rates on borrowers versus creditors in the us . monetary policy , however , is a much more awkward , indirect , and imprecise way of selecting winners and losers than fiscal policy . these considerations should guide the choices of what follows from the european stability pact . independent central banks may occasionally find the pain to politicians , but at least they can be used as scapegoats when necessitate a role whose political benefits outweigh the costs of losing control over a useful tool .
as a result , low interest rates and non-market interference , rather than corporate demand , fueled explosive credit growth in the first half of 2009 , surpassing the full-year target . had commercial banks been allowed to base lending decisions solely on economic considerations , credit and money supply would have grown more slowly , limited the risks of rising bad-loan ratios , stalled enterprise reform , inflationary pressure , and a resurgence of asset bubbles as excess liquidity enters equity and real-estate markets . true , in recent months , china ’s house prices have been skyrocketing . unlike the us , china did not suffer from a liquidity shortage and credit crunch during the global financial crisis . the government has been too generous in helping to revive real-estate demand , and , overwhelmed by fear of the adverse impact of falling asset prices on economic growth , was too wary of handling the bubbles when they re-emerged .
erdogan ’s islamic revolution has also expanded into the educational system , with the introduction of a markedly religious curriculum . now a constitutional reform , supposedly aimed at containing turkey ’s eu membership ” ” ” would further curb the military ’s role as the guardian of a secular state , as well as enhance the government ’s control of the judiciary . to back turkey ’s strategic shift , a new law recently made the teaching of a arabic obligatory in schools . to now , erdogan believes that , by exercising turkey as turkey ’s mediation capacity , he will recover the burden of his ottoman forbears as the secular state guarantors of peace and security . it is hard to imagine a more symbolic blow to ataturk ’s vision .
as a result , he remained skeptical about notions of irreversible progress . change for the better could emerge only from practical initiatives , not sunday speeches . thus , he and giscard created the european council ( composed of the heads of european governments ) , which now has a prominent player in europe ’s institutional set-up . specifically , they pushed forward the idea of monetary integration coming to fruition a generation later . european integration thus had to be crafted with real policies and institutions , not decree .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . for britain , the prospects are suddenly far clearer and better than at any time since june 2016 . while the probability that prime minister theresa may soon will be ousted could create the impression of a constitutional crisis , the reality is that the political conditions are sure to stabilize as soon as a period for renegotiation of the uk-eu relationship is extended again from a new , sizeable april 12 deadline until the end of the year or beyond .
of course , an iranian “ no ” is not the equivalent of the eu with what the afghan quagmire represents for nato . yet it also represents a significant setbacks and a challenge to its institutional , political , and even psychological character . can the most determined pro-integration europeans leave the pack , without ever being paralyzed by an unwilling coalition ? after an iranian “ no , ” ” ” ” can the union find salvation in nato ’s idea of a “ “ coalition of the willing ” ? it no longer dreams of becoming the “ united states of europe , ” may and jacques delors ’ suggestion of “ the united nations ” has remained too ambivalent , if not intentionally ambiguous , to be effective .
what is demanded , then , is a dose of realism . indeed , terrorism is and will continue to be one of that era ’s scourges . the good news , though , is that the threat posed by the islamic state in the middle east and the rest of the world may be diminished dramatically through sustained , concerted action . in fact , the struggle against the islamic state is not a conventional war . the us can not eradicate or destroy it anytime soon , owing to its manner in the way that it possesses the organization and the de facto state that controls territory and resources .
failing that , the left will come to power and reverse years of reform and progress . mexico ’s economy has had some good years now ; not terribly hard to achieve given booming america next door , as well as great liquidity in global capital markets . mexico ’s own skillful success in re-organizing opec ( boosting the value of its oil exports ) contributed to good performance as it chose to hang in , and even to widen the reform of mr. zedilla ’s predecessor , then-president salinas . but a currency board will also help initiate financial intermediation for the benefit of small and medium-size firms that have been starved of capital through experience of recurrent crises and bad loans . both small and medium-size firms need to become more part of mexican capitalism .
people who are being suspended between a lost past and a future have not yet gained need aid . it demands a sense of community responsibility that accompanies and cushions the painful process of modernization . it is in part an act of self-defense , in part an acknowledgement of the rule of law in hard circumstances , and in part a constructive effort to redress the underlying causes of frustration . people who are suspended from between a lost past and a future not yet have gained the need for aid . such assistance will yield no immediate results , but medium-term awareness – meaning readiness to confront it by delaying immediate gratification – is also an expression of the liberal order .
these are groups , criticized by the obama administration and others for their failure to present a united front , formulate a credible agenda , or be perceived as a viable alternative to the current regime . it is among these groups that the radical islamists have gained a foothold . groups like the syrian national council are loose association of individuals and groups , many of them outside syria . but these groups have limited influence over local opposition groups within syria , which are equally varied and divided . fear of another islamist takeover amounts to a second major argument against toppling assad , but the longer he remains in power , the greater the gains made by islamists on the ground .
by contrast , 30 years of financial deregulation , made possible by regulators ’ hearts and minds , and , of politicians on both sides of the aisle , gave a narrow private-sector elite , mostly in wall street , nearly all the upside from the housing boom . the downside was shoved to the rest of society , particularly the relatively uneducated and underpaid who now lost their homes , their jobs , their hopes to their children , or everyone else . but this was not a case of over-regulating and over-reaching . on the contrary , in the wake of the financial crisis , these people did not precipitate the crisis ; they did not themselves . but they were also paying for it , and are doing so at the same time .
the recent downturn in france ’s industrial output has created large trade deficits and undermines the competitiveness of small , medium-size enterprises ( smes ) . the unemployment stands at roughly 11 % , with a record-high 3.3 million workers registered as jobless in october . yet , french leaders have shown an inability to communicate effectively or to apply past experience when analyzing the current threats . instead , they are resorting to diversionary tactics by engaging in overblown rhetorical battles over minor controversies . at the same time , the political crisis is hindered by the government ’s pursuit of difficult reforms .
mumbai – as india gears up for its general election next month , it has some cause to celebrate : extreme poverty is , at last , back in retreat . to that end , much remains to be done . but it is past time that india can take up its current aspirations . escaping the destitution , albeit an important milestone , is not the same as attaining a decent norm of living and a sense of economic security . in 2012 , two decades after the government launched a series of economic reforms aimed at opening the economy , the official rate of poverty had risen to 22 % , below half its gnp in 1994 .
yet , far from making space for diplomacy , trump ’s adviser , sebastian gorka , recently told the press that , “ the idea that us secretary of state rex tillerson would discuss military matters is simply nonsensical . ” unless that changes soon , the us may , as then-british prime minister david lloyd gely put it of world war i had written of world war i , “ [ an muddle ] into war ” has yet to be anew . south korean political leaders , too , must avoid being swept up by this intensifying war rhetoric . once the march toward war got underway , there was little room left for diplomacy . but why should n’t america ’s top diplomat hold significant influence on military matters ?
alemán , too , is facing a rebellion in his liberal constitutional party ( plc ) , headed by former us treasury minister eduardo montealegre , a presidential hopeful popular in the party ’s liberal wing . while a three-way race is pure speculation on this point , it is a clear sign that it is offering ortega the best of the electoral worlds . it is so tempting that ortega is likely to help rehabilitate arnoldo alemán , betting that freeing him will serve his own political interests . if alemán blocks montealegre ’s candidacy in the plc and pushes him to form another political party , ortega ’s chances to win the presidency rises sharply . business interests that finance political campaigns confront a difficult dilemma : is it preferable to align with a plc dominated by the corrupt alemán , or support a new democratic force and the risks that ortega will seek to win ?
friedman and keynes agreed that successful macroeconomic management was necessary – that the private economy on its own could well be subjected to unbearable instability ­, and that the strategic , powerful but limited government , limited government economic interventions were indispensable to maintaining stability . a relatively minor , a technical difference in the way one might say . but , while for keynes , the key was to keep the sum of government spending and private investment stable , because friedman ’s key was to keep the money supply -- the sum of purchasing power in readily spendable form in the hands of companies and households -- stable . a particular view of opinion that rested on different judgments about how the world works that might ( and ultimately was ) be resolved by empirical research , it might say . and you would be only half right , but you would be only half right .
the prospect of america ’s monetary tightening coincides with the moves by the european central bank and the bank of japan toward strengthened monetary stimulus . the result has been the dollar ’s appreciation against the euro and the yen . the euro is stuck at 8 % against the dollar from the first half of the year , and the yen is down 14 % against the us dollar . the fourth channels , the exchange rate , has already been at work . but , as speculators keep thinking ahead and moving out of commodities today in anticipation of future higher interest rates in 2015 ; the result has been to compound the price slump ahead next year .
i was also aware that the un human rights council ( goldstone , a dedicated and unimpeachable human-rights lawyer and advocate , shared similar concerns when he was initially brought closer together at the time . my first decision was that i was not my strong commitment to take the mission for those reasons . this pattern of action and inaction by the council did give greater credence to those who believed that the un ’s top human-rights body was inherently anti-israel . i ’m aware that goldstone , a dedicated and unimpeachable human-rights lawyer and advocate , shared similar concerns when he was initially approaching . but he was able to work with the council of the us to secure an agreement that he felt confident would have enabled the mandate to be interpreted in a way that allowed his team to address the actions that both parties made in the conflict .
though in theory communism aimed to establish a class justice system , lenin ’s heirs retained domestic power , through a brutal security apparatus involving lethal purges , gulags , widespread censorship , and ubiquitous whistleblowers . the net effect of these brutal measures involved a general loss of faith in the system . in the early cold war , communism and the soviet union possessed significant soft power . many communists led the opposition against fascism in europe , and many believed that communism was the wave of the future . but soviet soft power undercut the exposure of stalin ’s policies in 1956 and the repression in hungary in 1956 , czechoslovakia in 1968 and poland in 1981 .
coronado , california , most people do not think of charles darwin as a psychologist . before darwin , philosophical speculation shaped our psychological understanding . but even the great philosophers – plato , aristotle , hobbes , hume , locke , kant , schopenhauer , nietzsche , and others – could only describe current mental events and behaviors ; one could n’t explain their causes . in fact , his work has revolutionized the field . darwin provided the profound understanding that evolution has influence the shape of our minds as powerful as it has the shapes us bodies .
as marc kirschner , a professor at harvard medical school , points out in a thoughtful editorial in the journal science : “ one might recognize good science as it takes place ; significant science can be viewed only in a rear-view mirror . ” indeed , it has a difficult way to assess the impact that any research project places on it . even preeminent researchers might underestimate the significance of their findings at the time they get in . when salvador luria , my university of micro microbiology , received the 1969 nobel prize in physiology or medicine , he made the point eloquently , and sent a humorous cartoon to all who congratulated him on the prize . it depicted an elderly couple at a breakfast table , one in a very short breakfast table .
america ’s tax code was already regressive long before trump ’s presidency . the new us legislation makes america ’s tax system even more regressive . indeed , the billionaire investor warren buffett , one of the world ’s wealthiest men , famously complained that it is wrong that he has paid a lower tax rate than his own secretary . and , when fully implemented ( in 2027 ) , he will raise taxes on a supermajority of middle - and third-quintiles ) . it is now universally recognized that rising inequality is a key economic problem in the united states , with those at the top capturing nearly any gdp gains over the last quarter-century .
a critical question now confronting policymakers is whether gig workers should be categorized as independent contractors or as employees in platform companies with which they have employment contracts , and whose customers they provide services . california , an american state with more than two million independent contractors , has tried to settle this question with a new law , the california assembly 5 , which codifies the legal criteria to determine how to categorize workers . in order to win political support for ab5 ’s passage , lawmakers exempted many types of independent contractors – such as doctors , dentists , and real-estate agents – on the grounds that they set their own compensation rates , interact directly with their customers , and earn at least double the minimum wage . but ab5 covers the more than 400,000 workers who drive for platform companies like ride-sharing service uber and lyft , and food-delivery firm doordash . applying the three-part of abc testing ” that many us states already use to determine whether a worker finds gainful of unemployment insurance , ab5 makes it even harder for companies to classify their workers as independent contractors , rather than for employees .
making matters worse , the modi government has , for the first time ever , invoked elements of the rbi act that enable it to issue directions straight to central bank governor on matters of public interest . the modi government ’s willingness to take on such lengths indicates that more than interest rates are at stake . the us government is particularly unhappy with the rbi measures to clean up india ’s banks , many of which are burdened by a massive volume of non-performing assets and bar risks of building up up up up up up in other parts of the financial system . these moves are squeezing state-owned banks ’ ability to lend to their politically connected clients . to be sure , government ministers can n’t come right and say .
of course , abe did not face the kind of sky-high expectations that sarkozy and , for that matter , us president barack obama did . it is not that abe ’s 2012 campaign lacked ambition ; he set out a bold economic-reform agenda , and pledged to boost japan ’s global influence . as any democratic politician attest , disappointed expectations may well be everyone ’s harshest electoral opponent . but , after two decades of leaders who , except junichiro koizumi ’s promise of little and accomplished less , has little reason to expect that japanese voters will abide by his own pledges . just ask former french president nicolas sarkozy to urge president nicolas sarkozy to do so .
this genomic variation is exceptionally common , present in the next 30 % of individuals of european ancestry and over 50 % of those of asian ancestry . those individuals who carry at least one copy of a gene variant that does n’t allow the body to metabolize plavix have at least a 300 % higher risk of clotting the stent . in many such patients , a doubling of the dose of plavix , and check the point-of-care function to assure suppression , may override the absence of a response . there are alternative drugs , such as prasugrel or ticagrelor , that might be used instead of plavix to bypassing the issue . the story of interferon , given one year ’s hepatitis c patients , is particularly striking after one year .
west africa , too , would suffer , becoming in recent years a major transit point for south american drugs headed to europe . the repercussions of a genuine end to the colombian armed conflict would be felt far beyond the country . the repercussions would also be felt in mexico , where drug cartels are tearing apart the country and america , the world ’s largest source of global demand . if chávez ’s venezuela became the narco-state within which regimes ’ acolytes are drug lords , this reflects their privileged relations with the farc . after all , war , in colombia , and elsewhere , frequently unites nations while peace divides them .
at its heart lies the realization that reducing poverty requires both rapid economic growth , as well as targeted investments targeting the poorest of the poor . rapid economic growth is intended to entrench the private sector , including foreign direct investment . the key , though , is that the budget does not rely simply on “ trickle-down ” economics to raise living standards . rapid economic growth is intended to crowd out the private sector , including for foreign direct investment . thus , the budget encourages critical areas of market reform and growth promotion , including measures intended to overhaul the financial sector , encourage exports , and liberalizing more foreign direct investment .
the struggle to prioritize threats on the west is not exclusive to the west . among the frontrunners are the islamic state ( isis ) , iran and israel . for israel ( and saudi arabia , the answer is obviously iran . ) in fact , exaggerating the threat of islamist terrorism while downplaying the threat of right-wing populism might well play a direct hand in russian president vladimir putin ’s hands . in the middle east , countries seek to shape whom they should be included .
cambridge – us treasury secretary steven mnuchin is hemmed in on all sides . domestically , he ’s trapped between the promises that he has made ( such as mnuchin ’s rule that taxes would n’t be slashed for the wealthy ) , president donald trump ’s actions ( whose tax plan includes cuts for the rich ) , and simple arithmetic ( which makes the administration ’s conflicting pledges impossible to fulfill ) . but , even on the international scene , where america ’s treasury secretaries typically enjoy more latitude and esteem , mnuchin is probably having a hard time . after all , the trump administration has made it clear that it has no intention of complying with the global leadership commitments overseen by mnuchin ’s predecessors . given trump ’s belief that international negotiations are just a forum for making unilateral request , how could mnuchin , who , like his boss , lacks the government experience – to persuade other countries that adherence to shared rules and norms like open trade , is in everyone ’s interest ?
cambridge – how should one evaluate the agreement reached in paris later this month at the un climate change conference ? no sooner was the agreement announced on december 12 than the debate erupted . some avid environmentalists were disappointed that the agreement did not hold firm enough to limit global warming to 1.5 º celsius above the pre-industrial level by 2050 . but such a commitment would not have been credible , either . what emerged in paris was actually a better one , given that the negotiators could agree on practical steps in the right direction .
unfortunately , they were educated in the religious seminaries espousing a deeply intolerant , fundamentalist brand of islam . muslim professionals , fearing for their own safety , began to move into ghettos . with discrimination soon cutting across class lines , an increasing number of indian muslims have begun to look for ties to muslim communities elsewhere around the world . as a result , thousands of muslim girls have been enrolled in school . muslim charities , often funded by saudi arabia and other arab countries , have started to move into areas of social life where the state has failed to dismally , particularly its education .
today , private firms employ more of the working class in china than state-owned companies ( soes ) do . workers do not protest against menial jobs in capitalistic wenzhou but opposed to no jobs in the socialist shenyang . nor do workers protest against menial jobs in capitalistic wenzhou but against no jobs in the socialist shenyang . why most pundits miss the workers ’ party protesting , rather than in the liberal provinces of zhejiang and guangdong , but , in the northeast ’s socialist bastions , is a puzzle . with france ’s resource wealth a fraction of the soes ’ resources , private firms employ a lot of the proletariat , producing goods demanded by proletarian consumers , and , owing to their superior performance , safeguard the interests of proletarian savers by actually paying back their bank loans .
but , while we see inequality and exclusion in club-level soccer , the reverse is true for competitions among the national teams . the average victorious margin among the eight world cup ’s top eight national teams has declined steadily , from more than two goals in the 1950s to about 1.5 goals in the 1960s , 1970 ’s , and 1980 ’s , and only 0.88 goals in the 2002 world cup . the same is true of all the games played at the last tournament , not only of those among the top eight national teams . poorer or smaller countries can hardly dream of a victory for the european championship , as hamas ( romania ) , a red star ( serbia ) , or nottingham forest ( now languishing in the english third-division ) once did . the drop in winning margins is all the more remarkable because the world cup has grown from 16 to 32 national teams – many of them new and rather independent .
with real ( inflation-adjusted ) interest rates remaining near record lows , a marked increase in long-term growth as us administration forecasts implies that it would be historically anomalous . in fact , the us budget assumes the best of all worlds , rather than the blue-chip one at which interest rates remain low but gdp growth ambles along about 2 % . at present , us ten-year treasuries offer more than triple the yield on us three-month us treasuries . with real ( inflation-adjusted ) interest rates stay at near record lows , a marked increase in long-term growth as us administration forecasts would be historically anomalous . furthermore , in that projection , term premium disappears almost entirely .
but that antagonism reflected the personalization of politics achieved by berlusconi , as well as the institutional feature that he abolished . one of his government ’s last acts was to replace the majoritarian electoral system introduced in 1993 with proportional rule . under the new electoral rule , the seats are allotted to parties in proportion to the vote , but special provision induces parties to forge pre-electoral deals : a pre-electoral coalition that wins the supermajority of voters ’ votes cast a seat premium that ensures a comfortable majority in the chamber of deputies ( the lower house ) . a new electoral system transforms the politicians ’ incentives and might induce a return to shifting coalitions and unstable governments . that outcome would accelerate if , as seems likely , berlusconi himself were to distance himself from politics by the coming electoral term .
though the current rate of 7 % is comfortable , it remains well below the double-digit rates that prevailed before 2008 . this bodes well with li , who recognizes that structural transformation and industrial upgrading , not an unsustainable credit-led growth model , is the key to achieving high-income status . but there is more to be assessing wen ’s stimulus than the vaunted reform trade-off . and he has had some success , to the detriment of economic growth . given the need for yet another round of economic restructuring , and given the long-term demographic trends to reduce labor supply , pre-2008 growth rates are unlikely to rebound .
the climate challenge demands much deeper collaboration between the public and the private sector to increase green investment . we need to ensure that infrastructure is built to cope with the increased impact of climate change , and we are developing clear global standards for disclosing the climate risks that investment projects represent . here , government investment institutions like the european investment bank can help with adaptation in a host of ways . for example , how will a city cope with increased flood risk and how will farmland hold up as droughts have been growing more severe ? large and small investors alike should know precisely how their money could be influenced by changing weather patterns .
“ more than half of that battle takes place on the media battlefield , ” [ for ] we find ourselves in a media battle in a race to the hearts and minds of [ muslims ] . ” the speaker was not some public-relations executive ; rather , osama bin laden ’s chief lieutenant , ayman al-zawahiri . they plan , and designing headline-grabbing attacks , using every means to intimidate and break the collective will of the free people . terrorists have been skillfully adapted to fight wars in today ’s media age , only to protect “ america ” and governments from other democracies not . consider that violent extremists have their own “ media relationships committees ” aimed at manipulating elite sentiment .
of course , exemplary and punitive damages to discourage behavior inimical to society do exist in the statute books . but philippine courts have refused to resort to the use of such damage awards as a tool for controlling behavior , particularly among businessmen . simply put , philippine courts have not made it costly for it to sustain non-seaworthy vessels . recent experiments by filipino lawyers to prosecute civil-bill claims on environmental tort and human-rights abuses before american tribunals have revealed just how desperate filipino claimants are to seek redress against those who have been acting negligently or with impunity . all of this helps explain why sulpicio ’s lines , the holder of the stars ’ princess , have remained in commercial operations , despite its many lapses .
and , according to gerhard schröder , a former german chancellor who now chairs the pipeline project , america 's ambassador to germany was acting more like a “ occupation officer ” than it was . all told , the trump administration 's disruptive behavior left french and german governments furious . yet , beyond fueling anger , trump 's attacks on other countries ' sovereignty add momentum to a new push for european political unification . america 's congress is considering legislation authorizing the trump administration to lift sanctions on european firms that take over the project , even though those companies are contractually obliged to see the work gone through . it is no secret that europe is in the midst of an internal economic crisis – the result of saddling southern european countries with high inflation prior to the 2008 financial crash – that massively diminished their competitiveness within the european system .
all have abolished the controls at their shared borders and adopted a common visa policy for eu citizens . and it is undeniably convenient to drive from berlin to barcelona without having to wait in line at every border one crosses . indeed , that convenience is probably why only two eu countries ( ireland and the united kingdom ) have opted out of the schengen agreement . but the refugee crisis has exposed the flipside of the schengen agreement – namely , the difficulties of tracking national and eu territories without border controls . it certainly is handy to treat the flight from zurich to oslo as a domestic journey , with no passport controls to contend with departure and come .
such cooperation is vital to combat terrorism , human trafficking , and migration . yet europe has shifted more attention toward enforcing shared values within the tech sector – namely , through stronger data-privacy regulations – than to developing a long-term strategy to become competitive . a third area with potential for strategic cooperation is development aid and investment in the world ’s poorest and most fragile states . europeans have become reliant on such corporations , which are all based in countries like china or america . defining such a strategy might help europe identify areas for mutual accommodation .
so , too , in the us , smaller banks that largely finance small and medium-size enterprises ( smes ) were all but neglected . after all , small firms relying on collateral-based lending , along with the value of real estate – the main collateral form , for example , remains down to one-third from its pre-crisis level . but lending would be inhibited , even if the banks were healthier . the federal government , under both president george w. bush and barack obama , allocated hundreds of billions of dollars to prop up mega-banks , while allowing hundreds of these crucially important smaller lenders to fail . just adding liquidity while continuing current austerity policies will unpredictably reignite the spanish economy .
the world learned that lesson follows the arab-israel war of 1973 . arab oil-exporting countries embargoed oil sales to the us and the netherlands to turn sanctions against israel ’s backing . the world learned that lesson after the arab-israel war of 1973 . arab oil-exporting countries embargoed on oil sales to the u.s. and the netherlands to try to punish them for their support of israel . but oil-destined to the u.s. and the netherlands shifted to other countries like japan , while the region ’s oil destined for other countries found their way to the u.s. and the netherlands . when the dust settled , it turned out that american , dutch , and other importers all suffered approximately the same shortcoming and pay equally damaging high prices .
as the sun sets in myanmar , fear is rising . graphic images of the latest crackdown by myanmar ’s military junta have been terrifying . that crackdown is continuing under the guise of darkness . but bullets and clubs that are being launched on buddhist monks have worked . monks have retreated , and eerie normalcy has returned to yangon ( rangoon ) , myanmar ’s principal cities and its former capital .
indeed , until the mid-1990s , the us government ’s lack of macroeconomic discipline and its inclination to succumb to populist demands and vested interests accounted for much of the country ’s economic weakness . nor , of course , was it ever envisaged that greece faces its current economic trauma . the underlying issue is whether europe ’s monetary union needs greater integration to manage crises like greece ’s , or whether it can maintain the current approach , founded on national responsibility and sanctions on those that break the rules . germany ’s finance minister , wolfgang schäuble , suggested that such sanctions should have included expulsion from the eurozone from the us – something that was never considered in the 1992 maastricht treaty . admittedly , poland ’s economic performance following its oil shock in the early 1950s was a poor country marked by slow growth , high inflation and unemployment , huge fiscal deficits , growing debt , a depressed currency , and inadequate infrastructure .
these include flush toilets , automobiles , electric power , long-distance communication , modern information processing , and the like . in thinking of the future of growth , and the opportunities that continued growth will open to all of humanity , we should reflect on how far we have come . in the late roman empire , only a wealthy aristocrat might have bought a “ nomenclator , ” a slave-tasked with memorizing the names and faces , and reminding the aristocrat of them when social occasions demanded it . today , having a rudimentary smartphone is better than having the entourage of one dozen or even thousands , the nomenclator-like assistants . these include flush toilets , automobiles , electric power , long-distance communication , modern information processing , and the like .
as a result , china will become a largely inward-looking superpower , which – precisely for that reason – will pursue its own foreign-policy interests in an entirely unsentimental manner . insofar as this remains true , the united states will not be replaced as the dominant power , unless and until it abdicates that role . the vital interests guiding chinese policy are internal modernization , the ruling regime ’s political stability and survival , and the country ’s unity ( which includes taiwan ) . these interests are unlikely to change for the long term . that may sound simple , but it will have far-reaching consequences for the coming century ’s rules-based international order .
the global financial crisis that followed the east asia crisis set in motion a series of large-scale exchange-rate adjustments . the us dollar , to which argentina ’s peso was tied , soared sharply . meanwhile , argentina ’s neighbor and mercosur trading partner , brazil , has seen its currency depreciate – some might say that it has become significantly undervalued . the government has pursued fiscal austerity , but not enough to compel the vagaries of the market . wages and prices have fallen , but not enough to allow argentina to compete effectively , especially given that many of the agricultural goods that constitute argentina ’s natural advantages confront high hurdles in entering the rich countries ’ markets .
yet the chinese authorities do not seem to have learned the lessons of either episode . making matters worse when the current stock-market correction began in early june , chinese regulators relaxed margin-buying restrictions , while encouraging state-owned companies and asset managers to purchase more stockpiles . not only did they fall short of mitigating risks , underscored in the may 2007 meltdown , that new retail investors introduce capital markets ; in fact , they further aggravated them , by allowing , and even encouraging , those investors to accumulate leverage through margin purchases . when such debt-fueled bubble bursts , its effects are transmitted directly to the real economy via household-sector balance sheets , with diminishing consumption contributing to a decline in employment and private investment . it is far more difficult to find circuit breakers for this dynamic than for , say , , the result of balance-sheet distress in the financial sector .
seventy years ago , john maynard keynes pointed out its fallacy . when shocks to the system take place , agents do not know what happens next . facing this uncertainty , they do not readjust their expenditure ; , instead , they abstain from expenditure until the mists clear , send the economy into a tailspin . it is the shock , not the adjustments that spreads across the system . but i doubt that it has .
the financial sector has imposed enormous externalities on the rest of society . taxes on speculative activity may encourage banks to focus more attention on performing their crucial societal role in providing credit . america ’s financial industry polluted the world with its toxic mortgages and , in line with the well established “ polluter pays ” principle , taxes ought to be exacted . beyond , well-designed tax cuts in the financial sector may help to alleviate the problems caused by excessive leverage , and too-big-to-fail banks . over the longer term , most economists agree that governments , particularly in advanced industrial countries with an aging population , should worry about the sustainability of their policies .
but the public reaction to them , together with the recent oil-price spike , can well account for changing market psychology . attitudes toward risk change over time , and events like that of ahmadinejad and peres ’s remarks can precipitate such change . so , while these matters are occurring in ways that are hard to quantify , perhaps analysts should pay attention to ahmadinejad ’s words just as delicately as they do to those of bernanke in attempting to understand the world ’s stock markets . economists might counter focusing on public mindset and how it interacts with price changes , world news stories , and speculative dynamics . after all , doing so implies less predictable economic events ( and economists less omniscient ) than they like to imagine .
new york – in their efforts to pass the bailout plan on america ’s financial system , bush administration officials invoked the specter of the great depression of the 1930s . yet , for most asians , the economic armageddon is a far milder approach . the asian financial crisis of ten years ago brought the banks , corporations , and governments to their knees . the bonfire broke the thai baht ’s collapse in the summer of 1997 . contagion quickly spread throughout east asia , with ripple effects of serial currency devaluations reaching as far as russia and brazil .
to be sure , plato ’s purpose in a dialogue is not to define piety : when socrates knows a better definition than the unacceptable ones that euthyphro has offered , he does not reveal it . and to know that , one must be as well recognized as what one does not know as to what one does . to be sure , plato ’s purpose in a dialogue is not to define piety : when socrates knows a better definition than the unacceptable ones offered by the euthyphro , he fails to uncover it . one would have to recognize the moral character of any action that one is contemplating . rather , plato ’s point is to show that euthyphro is ignorant of one ’s own ignorance about piety and that euthyphro thus can not really know that prosecuting his father is actually the right thing to do .
this year , china experienced its worst drought in a half-century , which affected millions of acres of farmland and caused power shortages . now , one billion people worldwide lack access to clean drinking water , and more than two billion lack adequate sanitation . furthermore , water scarcity means food scarcity . after all , the agricultural sector accounts for 70 % of global freshwater consumption ; with water in short supply , farmers are less able to feed the world ’s population . in northern africa , the water-aching desert has displaced many people , exacerbating tensions among farmers and herders .
brazil ’s deregulation of agriculture and encouragement of r & d enabled the brazilian agriculture research corporation to pioneer more than 9,000 technology-based projects , including the design of tropical soybean strain that can thrive in brazil ’s climate . the era of easy gdp growth , driven by a massive army of young workers , is coming to an end . emerging economies must confront the resulting growth challenge head-on by pursuing sweeping policy changes , incentives , and established practices to boost productivity . recognizing this imperative is just the first step . the era of easy gdp growth driven by a massive army of young workers is coming to an end .
second , we need a clear message from the g20 that all of its members deliver policies for strong , sustainable , and balanced growth . to be meaningful , the message needs to be backed up with action : g-20 members need to show that their policies are clearly intended to restore economic growth and create jobs , and to have a shared responsibility to meet their commitments fully . but the magnitude of the challenges confronting europe implies the urgent need for far more determined reforms . we are confident that europe will act together to meet these challenges , and we will continue to support such efforts because european stability and growth matter for us all . since the g-20 ’s cannes meeting last november , for example , europe has increased its financial firewalls by € 200 billion ( $ 252 billion ) , restructured greek debt , took steps to strengthen its banks and banking regulation , established rules on fiscal discipline , and implemented a wide array of labor – and product-market reforms .
they need to work with bureaucracies that are naturally disinclined to have their efforts " prioritized prioritized " lest they end up as little as number one . but not talking about their priorities makes the need to prioritize proceed away . instead , choices are simply becoming less clear , less democratic , and less efficient . refusing to prioritize , and dealing mostly with our most publicized problems is mistaken . whenever we prioritize , we ask not only where we should do more ( which is good ) , but also where we should stop our efforts ( which is viewed as cynical ) .
this is true in most countries , including in the us , where inequality is among the highest in the world , despite a few countries , like norway , where people share a more realistic view . the point is not to get lost from endless comparisons or arcane math , instead of underscore that it is possible – and , indeed , necessary – to have meaningful debate about inequality , based on concrete figures , with the goal of establishing clear targets . as it stands , surveys show that people tend to believe that inequality is lower than it really is , but still higher than the level that they would consider ideal . if the right targets are to be selected , the debate must be better informed . correcting these misperceptions will change people ’s views of redistributive policies .
those sanctions have crippled iran ’s economy , at the very least , . similarly , denying any bank that does business with a russian bank or society access the american financial system would create the type of economic chaos last seen in russia immediately after communism ’s fall . similarly , denying any bank that does business with a russian bank or society access to the american financial system would create the type of economic chaos last seen in russia immediately after communism ’s fall . third , obama should underscore the chinese their stake of eurasian stability . putin may regard the soviet union ’s disintegration as a tragedy , but for china it has been the biggest geostrategic gift imaginable .
many financial firms shrank their balance sheets dramatically and , of course , some went out of business altogether . things became different in the last two years . against this backdrop , it is not surprising that pay in the financial sector had skyrocketed . the city of london , lower manhattan , and a few other centers became money-machinery that created investment bankers , hedge-fund managers , and private equity folk immoderately wealthy . against this backdrop , it is not surprising that pay in the financial sector had soared .
the us horse-trading surrounding the base has been intense , at least so far . the us horse-trading surrounding the base has been intense , too . the president , the speaker of the house of representatives , has been conversing with russia . in a february meeting , america ’s united nations ambassador to kyrgyzstan asked her chinese counterpart messages that china had offered to pay kyrgyzstan $ 3 billion if kyrgyz had shut down the american base . “ visibly flustered , ” ( the chinese ambassador ) has temporarily lost his ability to speak russian , and began spluttering in china to a tacit aide diligently taking notes , ” ” ” ” according to a confidential american diplomatic cable obtained by the web site wikileaks.org . indeed , the us policy has emboldened pro-russian politicians , who would love nothing more than to see the americans kicked out from kyrgyzstan .
but , ultimately , the best way to address them , and to prevent their resurgence , is to ensure that economic opportunities are available for those determined to make efforts . in a recent statement of burning suburbs , chirac declared , “ “ we will have to draw all the lessons we have made from this crisis , when the time comes and order was restored , alongside a great deal of courage and lucidity . ” but these lessons imply reforms that are more far-reaching than chirac can ever envisage . in fact , it is time that france begins questioning its economic model . in fact , social assistance with little prospect of individual improvement in the future is not enough .
at the same time , we learned from hundreds of thousands dead and millions of refugees in our region that sectarian , ideological , cultural , and religious bigotry merely fuels the fires of rage . we believe that they are faster than the us in acquiring and processing knowledge , because they have grown up with the tools and techniques that we lacked in their age . we can not , and will not , allow this in our country . we entrust them with driving our country to a new level of growth and development , one that , more than a year later , has appointed a cabinet minister of their age , and formed a specialized youth council . we need better study , training , and practice tolerance , and to instill it in our children , through education and our own example .
to ask policymakers in a democracy with large budget surpluses to raise taxes or cut the benefits or public investment through the vast magnitude needed to stave off disaster strikes , is to get running out of touch with reality . we know that ultra-low real interest rates are generating a massive expansion of credit . in higher-price-growth countries than in germany , but with the same borrowing costs , this can produce nothing but overheating , higher inflation , and even lower real interest rates . how will you tighten fiscal policy to make up for more than 100 % of gdp in credit-induced spending power in only three years , as happened in ireland in 1998 and 2007 , in a democracy athletic surplus , like that in ireland ? to stem this flood of credit-induced demand with fiscal policy alone is impossible and is absurd to try .
back then , no doubt , france ( under president mitterrand ) and germany ( under chancellor helmut kohl ) would collectively press the case for closer integration , despite british reluctance . today , however , france and germany are less united on a common european strategy , and their commitment to european integration seems less robust . as a result , the french government is reluctant to force confrontation with the british if there is any chance of a softer compromise in the future . the problem is that this conspiracy of evasion may not work , and fischer ’s speech is that he is the first government minister in office to say so in public , even though he pretends that it can be said in personal capacity . but the bottom line is that a constitutional amendment can take place only through unanimous agreement , and a few member governments , beginning with the united kingdom , would resist any overtly federalist agenda .
in my view , the intellectual case for activist policies – as made , say , dani rodrik and ricardo hausmann of harvard – has been strong . markets for innovation , and new ideas work badly , and governments can help deal with those market failures . critics call it misguided efforts that will produce only more distortions and retard growth . enthusiasts describe it as a new brand of advanced industrial policy , which can help push brazil beyond its traditional role as a commodity exporter . but rodrik and hausmann also show that getting such policies right implies exacting demands .
to be sure , gender imbalances are not the only driver of anti-immigrant sentiment , much less populism more broadly . but an evolutionary psychology that stresses the competition for females may add another dimension to our understanding of such phenomena , while helping us to predict when and where civil strife might erupt . there is little that can be done to address gender imbalances . those among native-born populations with the lowest incomes and education levels will always be worse off , if they have to compete with a high number of older , youthful male migrants . but , while the problem can not be resolved , ” ” ” understanding that it could help to curb the damage , not least by allowing leaders to evade policies either useful or exacerbating tensions .
new haven – codependency never ends well in personal relationships . judging by the ever-escalating trade war between the united states and china , the same is true of economic relationships . while i have published a book in 2014 about the codependent economic relationship between the us and china , for example , i would be the first to admit that it is a stretch to generalize insights from human psychology in order to assess the behavior of national economies . but the similarities are striking , and the prognosis all the more compelling , as the world – ’s two largest economies – sink into a dangerous quagmire . in its most fundamental terms , codependency occurs at one of the extremes of the relationship dynamics in the us , where the two partners are drawing more from one another than from its own inner strength .
this is the point that many start to use a language that defines europe by distinction , indeed by contrast , the u.s. -- europe as an anti-america . comparing and contrasting the two sides of the atlantic has a long pedigree , of course . europe 's culture and america 's commerce , europe 's profundity and american materialism , these are ancient and tired themes . but what is this identity to be laid to rest ? throughout the cold war what was then the soviet union provided the raison d’être of the european union ; in the era of globalization it is the u.s. .
without raising us national saving – highly unlikely beneath america ’s current balance-sheet trajectory – trade will simply shift away from china toward america ’s other trading partners . with that trade diversion likely to interfere with higher-cost us platforms around the world , american consumers will be hit with the functional equivalent of a tax hike . unfortunately , lighthizer seems as clueless about the macro argument today as it was back then . in both episodes , the american leadership has been in denial , bordering on delusion . ironically , trump has summoned the same robert lighthizer , veteran of the japanese trade battles of the 1980s to guide the charge against china .
both hollande and prime minister jean-marc ayrault have strong majorities at all the executive and legislative levels , giving it a rare chance to act . finally , along with the united kingdom among the european countries , france retains more of a global role than germany has gained so far . both hollande and prime minister , jean-marc ayrault , have strong majorities at all the executive and legislative levels , giving it a rare chance to act . if she can renew the european model at home , she will be able to project that success much more broadly , particularly in southern europe , in turn curtailing trust and faith in the eu , especially among the young generation . while the united nations security council is antiquated in its structure , she still plays a crucial role ; and france , not germany , is a member .
the third challenge , instrumental meeting the first two , will be sustained by regional arab solidarity . deep reform , focused on quality and performance , rather than enrollment and diplomas , is needed in order to transform the learning process and unleash the productivity growth that a young labor force requires . but the 2011 revolutions demonstrated a stark sense of identity politics , common language , and quite shared history bound arabs together , despite vast variations in natural-resource endowments , political circumstances , and an estimated average of per capita incomes . how else could one explain the revolt act in tunisia led to the popular revolts from north africa to the arabian peninsula ? many outsiders underestimate or purposefully minimize the arab world ’s “ arabness ” .
attitudes about male caregiving are beginning to shift . america ’s largest tech firms are starting to compete for talent by offering the paternity leave . who is the boss , or the company that better support reconciling work and family obligations ? with the more flexible skills of the marketplace , who has the more flexible job done ? who hold the boss , or company that better encourage reconciling work and family obligations ?
muted wage growth boosts competitiveness and underutilized labor and capital are redeployed . how fast this happens in part will depend on the private sector ’s flexibility and dynamism . but it also depends on government ’s ability and willingness to provide a bridging function for a deficiency of aggregate demand and pursue reforms and investments that boost longer-term growth prospects . if public-sector deleveraging is not a complete growth policy – and it is n’t , why attention is so much about fiscal austerity and so little action ( as opposed to lip service ) on growth and employment ? several possibilities , not mutually exclusive , come to mind .
by contrast , when the personal situations of many individual americans are studied through european eyes , the extreme individualism that represents a key component of american optimism translates into an unacceptable social scandal . “ the tents ” cities are filling with the victims of the economic crisis , reading one headline a month ago on a front pages of mass-produced america ’s newspapers . journalists report tragic stories among middle-class americans losing their jobs and homes , potentially placing their lives at risk in the absence of social welfare . who will pay for your expensive cancer treatment if you lose the health-insurance policies that come with it ? it is wrong to assume , as some ultra-free marketers do , that the absence of a welfare state makes you stronger .
warsaw : recently poland experienced a typical -- and typically unfinished -- political debate . it focused on whether a " free " education to become a constitutional right . only by raising the issue to the level of the constitutional right , say the postcommunists can guarantee free and equal access to education . owing to their dominance in the parliament , the postcommunists ’ intransigence on this point has forced the other political parties participating in drafting poland ’s new constitution to kowtow to their positions . a free , or as its flanks prefer to declare , a " not paid for " education " means education in schools and state-owned universities ( but not in the private school ) .
governments must also clarify the responsibilities of national water agencies and improve water-related capacity at every level to institute large-scale unconventional-water programs . the private sector also has a role to play in shifting toward unconventional water resources – a role that must extend beyond current efforts to tap desalinated water and urban greywater and wastewater . the sustainable development goal 6 calls for universal access to clean water and sanitation . the sustainable development goal 6 calls for universal access to clean water and sanitation . best practices should be made clear , innovations identified and tested , and knowledge and experience shared . finally , local institutions , nongovernmental organizations , and local communities must be mobilized – for example , through public campaigns showcasing the benefits of harnessing the potential of unconventional water resources .
given the scale of america ’s multilateral problem , this has a largely meaningless objective , particularly given the massive , ill-timed tax cuts and us federal expenditure increases that america ’s administration has enacted over the past six months . so , what could be done from the may 19 deal ? beyond a truce in tit-for-tat tariffs , there are few real benefits . as a result , targeting china has overwhelming policy appeal . us negotiators are fixated on targeted reductions of about $ 200 billion in the bilateral trade imbalance over a two-year timeframe .
the unprecedented economic expansion that has lifted millions of out of poverty has been accompanied by widening income disparities , as well as severe environmental damage . economic relations with the west would not be diluted by this shift alone . in short , the key challenges facing asia today are to sustain economic growth at lower but still enviable , tariffs , and improvements in the quality of its people . asia needs robust , inclusive , green , knowledge-led growth , which implies the need to rebalance the sources of economic dynamism to emphasize domestic , regional , and trans-atlantic demand . as a result , asia now has two faces : a prosperous , rising middle class , and those that have benefited greatly from the region ’s rapid economic development – and whose health and well-being adversely affected by acute problems like air and water pollution .
berkeley – the central insight of macroeconomics is the fact that , coming from john stuart mill in his first third of the nineteenth century , there can be a huge gap between supply and demand for pretty much every now produced goods and services and types of labor , if there is an equally massive excess demand for financial assets . a normal gap between supply and demand for some subset of today ’s supply commodities is not a serious problem because it balances excess demand for other , currently produced commodities . as industries afflicted by insufficient demand shed workers , industries benefiting from surplus demand recruits . an economy quickly re-balances itself and hence returns to full employment , and does this with a configuration of employment and production that is better adapted to current consumer preferences . and , indeed , this fundamental fact is a boon of great trouble for the economy .
the prosecution then began to speak to a young girl like a chechen sniper , from a snipers family . last month , however , the military prosecutor accepted colonel harry budanov ’s argument that he had been temporarily mad when he had killed a girl , and so acquitted budanov on the murder charges . outraged , us defense minister sergei ivanov dismissed a prosecutor who appeared prepared to absolve the “ patriotic ‘ hero ” on all remaining charges . already , russian liberals had welcomed the case of budanov as a sign that the country could address the accusations that war crimes had been committed in chechnya . ( the marital charge , for some ambiguous reason , was already falling . )
once it is in place , its members will need to figure out how to make trump ’s plans work for an economy that has – through necessity , not choice – excessively reliant on unconventional monetary policies . the good news is that the incoming administration can draw on measures formulated over obama ’s tenure , but which has gained little traction , owing to the highly polarized and dysfunctional congressional politics that have characterized much of obama ’s eight years in office . the plan must recognize that , during this protracted period of monetary expansion , both financial markets and resource-allocation have been distorted , worsening wealth inequality . such measures address imperatives like investment in infrastructure , tax reform , and job creation . but , of course , the us does not exist in a vacuum .
washington , dc – just over 100 years ago , the united states led the world in terms of rethinking how big business worked , and when the power of such firms should be constrained . in retrospect , the us breakthrough legislation – not only for america ’s , but also internationally – was the sherman antitrust act of 1890 . prior to 1890 , large enterprise was widely considered to be more efficient and generally more modern than petty . most people viewed the consolidation of smaller firms into fewer , big firms as stability-oriented trends that rewarding achievement and enabled for additional productive investment . the dodd-frank financial-reform bill on the trip of america ’s senate does something similar – and a long overdue way to banking .
tokyo – when was the last time you went up and wrote a letter ? i do n’t mean to email or text message ; nor would i count a dictated message to a machine or a personal assistant . no , i mean an old-fashioned condear donald ” or the dear hillary ” letter . according to a recent feature in the guardian , a white house ’s team staffers would select ten letters each day to pass along to a president who would then respond personally that the evening . the reason i would ask is that 65,000 people have actually done such “ letters ” to barack obama each week when he served as president of the united states .
they may tell pollsters they were prepared to pay higher taxes for better public services and a more compassionate attitude toward the poor . but , ultimately , they would do exactly what they did in each of the previous four elections – a vote to a party that marked “ every man for himself ” instead . today , this pseudo-marxist theory for economic determinism has refuted once and for all . in 1992 , john major ran for re-election in the midst of the economic slump , a vicious monetary squeeze , and the aftermath of galloping inflation . economic determinists anticipated that he did not stand a chance ; he .
the transformational objectives and an inspirational style of a leader like mahatma gandhi in india , or nelson mandela in south africa can profoundly influence outcomes in fluid political contexts , particularly in developing countries with weakly structured institutional constraints . transactional leadership tends to be a more efficient stable and predictable environment , whereas inspirational style is more likely to appear in periods of rapid and discontinuous social and political change . america ’s foreign-policy formation , by contrast , is strongly constrained by institutions like the us congress , courts , and the constitution . thus , we would expect less opportunity for transformational leadership . but even the american constitution is unambiguous about the powers of congress and president of the us foreign policy .
berlin – it has been 30 years since the un ’s food and agriculture organization launched its tropical forestry action plan , the first global intergovernmental initiative to halt forest loss . since then , deforestation has so far been continued unabated , and the latest international effort to halt it – an initiative known as reducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation ( redd + ) – looks no more likely to be effective . redd + has been created as part of the un framework convention on climate change , with an agreement governing its implementation expected to be finalized during the un climate change conference in paris . but , if world leaders are serious about halting forest loss , they should abandon redd + , replacing it with a mechanism that addresses the underlying drivers of large-scale deforestation . redd + has been created as part of the un framework convention on climate change , with an agreement governing its implementation expected to be finalized during the un climate change conference in paris .
britain and some other european governments have responded to a post-election crackdown by temporary withholding support . it could also destabilize a fragile region , sparking fresh wars with neighboring somalia and eritrea . but ethiopia presents a dilemma for anyone concerned about human rights and democracy . donald payne , a prominent united states house of foreign affairs committee and ana de facto member of the european parliament of portugal and eu head of observation team in its 2005 election , has sought to tie non-humanitarian support more closely to ethiopia ’s concerns about press freedom and other human rights . cutting aid could have calamitous humanitarian consequences for a nation of 80 million people .
that is why the health-care industry must play a significant role in efforts to confront the challenges of population aging . old age needs to be viewed not simply as an unavoidable stage of life , but as opportunities for health-care companies and systems can help people to thrive . to keep people working longer , sustaining them is crucial . such efforts are also vitally important to identify ways to stem greater effective human productivity and autonomy , by preserving their physical strength , mental acuity , and senses like hearing and vision . to this end , health-care companies should shift a focus of their reconfigurations of their reconfigurations of conditions prevalent among older patients , including chronic diseases like diabetes , heart disease , glaucoma , rheumatoid arthritis , and cancer .
the other large transition-financing opportunity is in blended financing , or collaborative schemes that raise private capital for public goods . these initiatives are bringing together a wide range of public - and private-sector stakeholders , including multilateral organizations , to finance deep-environmental and socioeconomic repercussions . the initiative brings together private , public , and philanthropic funds to maximize environmental and social benefits . moreover , the blended approach helps to scale up and de-risk projects , and to optimize their funding . the tropical landscapes financing facility , developed in indonesia as part of collaboration with the un environment program , is a good example .
originally tied to that distress only when foreign investors began pulling their money out at the same time . countries with large current-account deficits and/or large short-term foreign-currency liabilities were the most fragile of them . then panic spread to credit markets , money markets , and currency markets highlights the vulnerability of many of the developing world ’s financial systems and the corporate sector , which experienced credit booms and borrowed in short , and in foreign currencies . many emerging markets now find themselves at risk of a severe financial crisis . but even better-performing ones , like brazil , russia , india , and china , are now at risk of a hard landing .
almost three years ago , a reversal of british voters ’ 2016 decision to leave the eu seemed unlikely . but the interventions by bercow and the eu opened a whole new play , dramatically increasing the chance that brexit might not happen . until recently , a reversal of british voters ’ 2016 decision to leave the eu seemed unlikely . and should a new referendum materialize , british voters would likely have to decide between an orderly brexit and remaining in the eu , because nobody will dare to offer a hard brexit as an alternative . that would foil financial-market speculators , betting on withdrawal , and is good news for both the united kingdom and the eu .
beijing – 40 years ago this month , china ’s leaders set the country on a path for reform that produced what was essentially the most dramatic economic transformation in history . mao zedong died just two years earlier , in 1976 , and the newly rehabilitated deng xiaoping succeeded in revamping his vision for economic development and modernization through the third plenum of the eleventh central committee held in december 1978 . through the dual-track pricing mechanism , farmers were provided with market incentives . china ’s reforms began in agriculture , where the crushing burden of state controls was relaxed . through the dual-track pricing mechanism , farmers had been granted market incentives .
jerusalem – in the wake of misguided american policies , the threat of another military confrontation hangs like a dark cloud over the middle east . the united states ’ foes have been on the rise , and iran , despite being hailed as a member of the so-called “ axis of evil ” dominance , has been catapulted to regional hegemony . the result has been the emergence of some startling , if not bizarre , alliance : iran , syria , hezbollah , hamas , and the american-backed , shia-dominated iraq to confront israel , saudi arabia , and most other sunni arab states , all feel existentially threatened by iran ’s ascendance . iran could never achieve that , certainly not in the same short term . a hitherto latent rivalry between iran and israel has thus descended into an open-ended struggle for middle east dominance .
old social structures were destroyed ; socialist customs and habits vanished overnight ; former norms and unwritten rules were abandoned . over the course of the postcommunist social revolution ( fewer often noted than not in terms of political and economic upheavals ) , families and communities were undermined , and ( at least in poland ) the church had all engaged in politics to help . people were left to withstand the gales of change on their own . fascination with liberal freedom came in poland and elsewhere at a strange moment . to be free but by themselves is no easy task , especially when dependence habits get ingrained .
nor should today ’s uncertainties become a pretext to call into question the need to continue and complete the eu ’s enlargement process . broadening the eu to include freedom and democracy , peace , stability , stability , and prosperity – particularly throughout south-eastern europe – is in the interest of every european citizen . likewise , the crisis must not become an excuse to forge new institutional formats that jeopardize the delicate balance between the various eu institutions , a transition that – through appropriate adjustments – has proved to be the test of time . of course , the crises underscore the need to strengthen eu institutions and instruments for shared action and coordination . we need a definitive and total ratification of the treaty of lisbon to have the institutionally and internationally stronger european union that we need .
his motivation is not hard to discern : his bharatiya janata party ( bjp ) hopes that such concessions will help it to wrest control from maharashtra , india ’s main sugar-producing state from upa in the upcoming state assemblies . this goal explains another policy reversal just as it is . a widely cited example of the outgoing government ’s supposed economic mismanagement was its sugar-price policies . powerful sugarcane cooperatives , led by prominent upa followers , supposedly drove the government to fix extravagant prices and write off sugar farmers ’ bad debts , leading to over-production . rather than nullifying this system , as expected , modi ’s government augmented subsidies for sugar exports to support higher output , raised import duties on sugar to discourage foreign competition , raised a percentage of sugar-based ethanol that must be blended with gasoline .
berlin – the german social democrats ’ ’ ( spd ) existential crisis can no longer be treated as a typical party crisis . its governing party has captured a mere 9.7 % of the vote in regional elections in bavaria this month , and it is trashing both the populist alternative für deutschland ( afd ) and the greens in national opinion polls . the spd and the christian democratic union/christian social union ( cdu/csu ) have stood as the twin pillars of german politics since the end of world war ii . with another important regional election fast approaching in hesse , polls indicate that the spd will still lose more support , if not as dramatically as in bavaria . but with the spd falling , germany is moving from the de facto two-party system to a multiparty system in which no single party really plays the dominant role .
while russia alone will not freeze accounts , the president of putin ’s meaning was clear : it would have been better for all sides had that money been brought home and invested in the national economy . to achieve this end , russia needs to build a secure and attractive investment climate . most important , if a reversal of capital flight is to be reversed , the government must work to convince individual savers that they can deposit money safely and withdraw it on demand . how can the government expect to mobilize domestic investment for the time being so long as ordinary russians retain their savings , $ 50 billion , according to most estimates , at home ? russians ’ need to be convinced of the country ’s political stability -- that , for example , nobody will suggest nationalization – as happened repeatedly during the eight months that i was prime minister in his first term .
they realized that east germany ’s realities are not fixed in stone after all ; that change was possible , which many courageous dissidents and civil-rights proponents trapped behind the wall had demanded for so long . their commitment against the injustices of the communist regime was for me one of the best recent chapters in german history . without gorbachev and his singular courage , a stream of events throughout europe during the fall of 1989 never would have been possible . for with gorbachev ’s ascendance , more and more people in east germany took to heart , ending fears of their repressive regime . the opening of hungary ’s borders , which fall and the seeking sanctuary by east german citizens in prague and warsaw , already shaken the communist and stasi rule to its foundations .
as a result , some , while relatively speaking , without many , are committing the world ’s long , often perilous , journeys to the developed world . and yet , when they arrive at their rich world ’s doorstep , the welcome that they receive is becoming increasingly muddled , because manufactured panic over the supposedly massive influxes of “ dangerous ” outsiders closes the space for the humane , pragmatic response . what is needed is a comprehensive strategy with a global reach , reflecting a sweeping vision that inspires and engages governments , the aid community , businesses , development institutions , civil society , faith groups , academia , sports and governance . responsibility-sharing – the un ’s modern international system for protecting refugees – is being replaced by responsibility-shifting , usually onto countries that can cope with the best . it is time to restart global efforts to protect refugees .
munich – the euro crisis has now gone through six phases so far . the seventh phase of the crisis has been one of heightened moral hazard , stemming from a run-up in debt . so far , the sequence has been as follows : the sequence of increasingly robust moral hazard , stemming from a run-up in debt levels . markets currently remain calm , but that is only the start of the may 7 phase of a crisis , during which europe will become mired in debt . it is worth recalling , because they show how policymakers stumbled along , trying to lay off fires without keeping an eye on where their chosen path has led them .
from 1985 to 2005 , boomsters have made ten-year projections that exaggerated the chances of large positive shifts in both financial markets ( for example , the dow jones industrial average of 36,000 ) , and world politics ( for example , the tranquility of the middle east , and the dynamic growth of sub-saharan africa ) . they have assigned probabilities of 65 % to the rosy scenarios that materialized at only 15 % of the time . during the same period , doomsters have performed even more badly , exaggerating the chances of a negative change in all the same locations that boomsters accentuated the positive , plus a few more ( i continue to await the impending disintegration in canada , nigeria , india , brazil , and sudan ) . second , again , as the skeptics warn , over-claimers rarely pay penalties for being misappropriate . they assigned probabilities of about 70 % to the rosy scenarios that materialized only 15 % .
the out campaigning ’s main economic argument – that britain ’s huge trade deficit is a secret weapon , because the eu would have more to lose than britain from a breakdown in trade relations – is flatly wrong . the economic challenges of brexit would have been overwhelming . britain would need to negotiate access to the european single market for its service industries ; whereas eu producers automatically enjoy virtually unlimited-persons ( mff ) rights to sell whatever it wanted in britain under the world trade organization ’s rules . it makes little economic difference to germany , france , or italy whether britain is an eu member , or simply at the wto . margaret thatcher was one of the first to realize that britain ’s specialization in services – not only funding , but also laws , accountancy , media , architecture , pharmaceutical research , and so forth – makes eu membership of the critical eu ’s single market .
answering them will require a debate that transcends issues like the separation of powers and judicial independence , and that elucidates the appropriate relationships between politics and religion . for this , understanding of the historical context in the current crisis is critical . when turkey became a democracy in 1950 in 2011 , previous systems ’ secular kemalist elites attempted to harness the power of the military and the bureaucracy to control an elected government . in response , various religious groups , including the gülen movement , have encouraged their adherents to take positions in the bureaucracy and the military . in fact , the turkish military , with its support from the judiciary , intervened explicitly in the civilian government ’s functioning in the 1960 ’s , 1971 , 1980 , and 1997 , each time in the name of protecting secularism .
berlin – throughout the long night of negotiations over greece on july 12-13 , something fundamental for the european union cracked . on the surface the negotiations were about averting a greek exit from the eurozone ( or grexit ” ) , as well as the dire consequences that would have endured for greece and the monetary union . at a deeper level , however , what was at stake had been the role played by the european of its most populous and economically powerful country . what changed this evening was germany , which europeans know since the end of world war ii . since then , europeans have been living in a different sort of eu .
but the rise of arab military coalitions does raise serious concerns , not least because arab-led military interventions , unlike those undertaken by the west in places like bosnia , kosovo , and even libya , retain no solid precedent . such interventions have typically been focused on empowering a proxy political force over its military and political rivals , rather than averting a humanitarian catastrophe or institutionalizing the post-conflict settlement mechanism . egypt ’s military intervention in yemen in the 1960s is a case in point . by late 1965 , egyptian president gamel abdel nasser sent 70,000 troops in yemen to support a republican coup against its royalist forces . despite using banned chemical weapons against yemeni loyalist forces from 1963 to 1967 – a first in an intra-arab conflict – egypt failed to achieve its objectives .
beps was undoubtedly an important step toward tackling some of the most egregious tax-avoidance strategies employed by multinational corporations . it initiated , for example , sharing among country-by-country tax authorities on such corporate profits and tax payments . today , there are 125 countries , forming a group that has dubbed the “ inclusive framework . ” and yet , unfortunately , that norm will be applied only to very large multinational corporations , and reports will not be publicly available , depriving civil society of an essential instrument of transparency . the reform process was led by oecd countries , opening up to developing countries only after this initial package was unveiled .
reducing the tax preferences of non-corporate business actors ( such as partnerships ) that pass their income through their owners ’ individual returns would , too , broaden the us tax base subject to the corporate-income tax . and even eliminating accelerated depreciation would not renew the us tax base enough to finance a rate cut to 28 % . likewise , while limiting the us corporate interest deductibility , as many other developed countries have done , would broadening the us tax base and discourage excessive reliance on debt financing , it would add to the fiscal burden of major investment in physical capital , which is often debt-financed . and even eliminating accelerated depreciation would not broaden the us tax base enough to finance a rate cut to 28 % . pass-through firms now account for more than 80 % of us net trading income ( by far the highest share in the developed world ) .
israel ’s disengagement plan presents the evacuation of gaza settlements as an end to 37 years of occupation . at the same time , however , israel insists that gaza will have no attributes of sovereignty , and will continue to abide by existing arrangements covering most aspects of its security and civilian administration . this means that israeli armies will continue into gaza at will , and maintain control over border crossings , airspace , and territorial waters . nor will the israeli military withdraw from the palestinian-egyptian border . in doing so , these conditions rule rule out any possibility of forging a security plan that would receive the backing of all factions , including hamas .
indeed , since the 1980 ’s , most oecd countries have experienced large declines in farm employment . in some , such as portugal , malaysia , turkey , and indonesia , the share of us agricultural employment has declined by more than 20 % . in others , such as greece , italy , bulgaria , hungary , estonia , poland , the philippines , and sri lanka , the shortfall surpassed 10 % . almost 60 years later , america ’s agricultural employment peaked , at 53 % of total employment . today , it is less than 3 % , on average .
islamabad – as pakistan gears up for its parliamentary election on february 18 , many observers are hoping that a vote will upend the bill in an era of stability and tranquility by the lending popular legitimacy to the government . to be sure , re-passed elections would provide my party with a stark opportunity to take issues to the people . but , at times , any democracy is best served by refusing to participate . in fact , support for my party has been growing , with opinion polls now indicating that it is the second most popular in frontier province and winning ground in every other province . the upcoming election , to be held under the illegal provisional constitutional order ( pco ) implemented following president pervez musharraf ’s administration of emergency on november 3 , is such a case , causing my party and its coalition partners to be boycotting the vote .
likewise , they can not fix debt overhangs , repair broken home financing , or address medium-term fiscal-reform challenges on their own . the best that central banks can do is buy time , albeit at a rising cost , for other policymaking entities to get their act together . and it is a good thing for the official sector to pay more attention to joblessness – a very good deal . yet , sadly , this shift wo n’t address the problem that is galvanizing at the social fabric of any society . as much as bernanke and others would like to do – and as much as bickering politicians seek to monetize policy responsibilities on others , central banks do n’t have an orderly tools to cope with a component of the unemployment crisis that results from insufficient investment in education , training , and physical capital .
in fact , china ’s 13th five-year plan , released this year , calls for a new wave of dam projects on the plateau . unsurprisingly , the plateau is the new hub for china ’s dam building . most of china ’s internationally shared water resources stand on the tibetan plateau that it annexed in the early 1950s . indeed , china ’s 13th five-year plan , released this year , calls for a new wave of dam projects on the plateau . moreover , china has recently cut the flow of brahmaputra river tributary , the lifeline of bangladesh and northern india to build a dam as part of a major hydroelectric project in tibet .
washington , dc – ten years after the failure of lehman brothers , we know that multilateral action was crucial in preventing the so-called great recession from turning into even worse than it has been . back then , it was the global financial system that tottering . now it is the global trading system that is in jeopardy . much to its credit , the united states eschewed retribution and reparations after world war ii . over the last 70 years , multilateralism has served the world very well .
but this was not farfetched transformative in a city where people assumed new identities – such as nasserist , baathist , islamist , or communist – downplayed their regional and tribal origins . schools were multiplying themselves as attendance had surged . other public services were improving as well , with their parents believing that their children would lead a more prosperous life than they had and previous generations . this was certainly true of my parents , who have sacrificed much to raise their nine children . they were not happy when , in the 1970s , their elders became communists , strongly opposing hafez al-assad ’s brutal regime , president bashar al-assad ’s father .
the gcc policymakers were right to focus on increasing access and subsidies for quality health care . but the equitable distribution of health-care services across native and migrant populations often is thorny political issues . and now policymakers must devote more attention to the health-care workforce itself , ensuring that they are properly educated and trained to the challenges that await the region . training programs in the gcc national health systems today do not focus nearly enough on innovation or systems thinking to improve efficiency and efficiency . this results from high turnover caused by over-work and an increased need for foreign-aid workers to fill sorely needed positions .
should the army collapses , algeria is [ and ] france , which collapses . if the army were to collapses , it is algeria [ and france collapses . ] the decisive moment came when de gaulle , in a military uniform , went on television to show his mastery of the new medium . insisting that self-determination was the only way ahead ; he challenged the army to deny even a passive association with an insurgency , and instructed it to re-impose the public order . should the state elbowing aside the challenge it faced , “ france will be no more than a very poor one , broken plaything on the ocean of uncertainty , ” he warned .
what we do know with certainty is that the regime is split . such divisions will enable new forces in iranian society to emerge . iranian students should be encouraged to visit and study in asian universities to discover exactly how confident young chinese and indian students in the future − which might well cause them not to share this optimism . so all means should be found to get in iranian society at all levels . just when the world got a consensus that ahmadinejad is merely an instrument of supreme leader ayatollah khamenei , ahmadinejad designated an vice president against khamenei ’s wishes ( though he later retracted the appointment ) .
how can one evaluate the contribution of light infantry against providing critical enablers such as helicopters or air-to-air reclamation ? common funding , with all the members paying a share on the basis of their gdp , is one tool that can be deployed to achieve more equitable burden-sharing . during the previous few years , nato ’s funding policy has been updated to permit the common funding to be used as a incentive to grant certain theater-level incentives that provide capabilities , like medical facilities , airports handling soldiers and supplies , or intelligence services . traditionally , nato imposed a policy of “ costs lie where they fall ” : each member picked up all the costs for the operating contribution that it made to alliance operations . over what time period has you to make your calculations , i draw the benefits of a different one .
owing to easy funding and regulatory forbearance , aggregate supply rose as “ zombie ” companies proliferated . with so many potential dangers on the horizon , central bankers should at least weigh in on rethinking the fundamental assumptions underlying their policies . moreover , one might argue that easy money itself has added to unexpectedly powerful deflationary forces that have been perceived in recent years . in the meantime , aggregate demand has been restrained by loose debt headwinds , yet another consequence of straightforward monetary conditions . given such conditions , continuing to insist on monetary easing seems especially ill-advised .
ever since the terrorist attacks on new york and washington of last year , the regime — once-central america ’s strategic interests in the region — has been made to feel dispensable at the us , which drops powerful hints that there are alternatives to saudi military bases , even to saudi oil . so , amid the bad set of possibilities , there seems to be the least bad prospect of cooperating with the us . still , cooperation with the us may not gain the al-sauds much , because saudi relations with america are strained to a breaking point . while the saudis have not been included in president bush ’s own “ axis of evil , ” ” ” some american policymakers have now come to view the country as a “ kernel of evil . al-qaeda ’s terrorist network is perceived to be stemming directly from its fundamentalist wahhabi doctrine that constitute an integral part of the saudi regime .
how victims remember the trauma is the most controversial issue facing the region ’s psychology and psychiatry today . while acknowledging that trauma is often all too memorable , these particular clinical trauma theorists assert that a condition known as “ traumatic dissociative amnesia ” leaves a large minority of the victims unable to keep pace with their own trauma , precisely because it has been proved so overwhelmingly terrifying . others disagree , arguing that the mind can protect itself by banishing memories of trauma from awareness , making it difficult for victims to remember their most horrific experiences until it is safe to do so many years after it is safe to do so . nonetheless , there is no reason to argue that “ repressed ” or “ dissociated ” memories of horrific events are either inert or benevolent . many clinical trauma theorists assume that fight , rape , and other terrifying experiences are seemingly engraking on the mind , never to be forgotten .
as a child , mastering the cruel art of elé belé was important . in calcutta , when some younger kid came along , insisting on joining the game that my friends played , we would let the new kid off , but only after whispering through each other ’s ears the words , elé belé . when a new kid arrived , accompanied by the doting mother , we might convey to one with the mere sight that the kid would be the elé belé . an elé belé is a player who thinks that he is participating , but in truth only going through the motions alone . everybody knew that the goal scored by him was not the true goal .
northwestern university ’s robert gordon , for example , has argued that america ’s economy is bound to slow this time around , because today ’s technological innovations wo n’t drive growth to the level at which they have been in the past . as the growth pessimism of the past few years fades , some warnings that have gained traction in recent years seem to have become outdated . the financial times sharing all-world economic index rose by almost 22 % in 2017 – its best performance since the post-crisis rebound of 2009 . yet , while the zero lower bound does not seem to be the binding constraint , there are potential causes for concern , one concerning debt levels . harvard ’s lawrence h. summers has received much attention from his argument that the world risked tumbling against a kind of secular stagnation , ” ” and that the interest rate required to generate desired investment in line with desired savings was below zero .
india ’s government has been pressing china for transparency , greater hydrological data-sharing , and a determination not to converge on the natural flow of any rivers , or to reduce cross-border water flows . but even the joint expert-level mechanism – established in 2007 merely for “ interactions and collaboration ” on hydrological data – has proved to be of little value . so far , local authorities in yunnan province are considering damming on the salween in the quake-prone upstream region . in fact , china has damming most of the international rivers that are flowing out of tibet , whose fragile ecosystem is already threatening to do with global warming . the only rivers on which there are no hydro-engineering works have so far are the indus , whose basin slumps in india and pakistan , and the salween , that flows into burma and thailand .
finally , currency chaos is the safest bet of all , with sharp and unpredictable swings in floating exchange rates around the world . as for china ’s renminbi , it remains backed by a highly political exchange-rate regime . in the end , china ’s rapid growth will need to bounce significant downward pressure on its currency , its domestic price level , or both . but , in the summer of 2011 , most of the equilibration will most likely take place through inflation . perhaps , but most important , financial-market students view quantitative easing as textbook policies for pulling the economy out of a zero-interest-rate trap , ” ” ” ” ” thereby avoiding the onset of sustained deflation , which would exacerbate the debt burden .
which countries should take the lead in constraining china ’s revisionist ambitions ? with america distracted by its other strategic challenges , not to mention its domestic presidential campaign , asia ’s other powers , mainly an economically surging india and a more politically assertive japan , are the best job candidates . moreover , they have shown their shared desire to uphold the existing asian order . both india and japan are longstanding stakeholders in the us-led global order , emphasizing in their own transnational relations the values that america espouses , such as the need to maintain a stable balance of power , respect its territorial and maritime status quo , and maintain freedom of navigation . without such cooperation , china ’s ambitions would be constrained solely by domestic factors , such as faltering economies , rising social discontent , a worsening environmental crisis , or vicious politics .
moreover , adequate mechanisms and institutional arrangements should be created for adaptation , financial support , and technology transfer . the global financial crisis has undoubtedly exacerbated the challenge of climate change . but , because climate change is a more far-reaching and serious challenge , the world must not waver in its determination and commitment to address it . within the framework of sustainable development , and with its measurable , reportable , reportable , and verifiable support in terms of funding , technology , and capacity-building , developing countries will take nationally appropriate mitigation action . developed countries should also fulfill their commitments under the un convention to provide financial and technology transfer to enable developing countries to tackle climate change effectively .
florence – earlier this month , jim yong kim abruptly resigned his post as the world bank ’s world bank president , abandoning his pillar of a frictionless or direction in the rules-based international financial order . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere around the world . in fact , the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime ; but it does not all-out war . in fact , kim will join as a private equity firm , where he believes that he can “ make the biggest impact on major global issues such as climate change . ” following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
that is arguably what the bank of japan now does . the <UNK> ter-money version would be the purchases of zero-interest-rate government bonds that are unlikely to be repaid , either because they are perpetual bonds , or because they are rolled over every time they mature . boj governor haruhiko kuroda has said that directly underwriting a budget deficit is not an option . nonetheless , he launched the policy of replacing the boj ’s balance sheet with its balance sheet once they mature while continuously increasing the volume of government debt on the central bank ’s ’s books . that comes , after years of statements by prominent economists , including berkeley ’s brad delong and former us federal reserve chair ben bernanke , that helicopter money offers a way to counter deflation ( with which japan has struggled for several decades ) .
starting in the summer of 2015 , he embraced extremist rhetoric appealing to nativism , islamophobia , and anger over gop elites . trump ’s core supporters are wrongly thought to be displaced and economically “ insecure blue-collar ” workers . his supporters resemble the tea partiers : overwhelmingly older , working-class , middle-class , and white . in fact , his voters ’ average annual income , some $ 72,000 , exceeds the american median of $ 56,000 . media outlets provided as much as $ 2 billion worth of free coverage , helping him capture , and hold leadership in polls and most primaries .
our reactions to soulless bodies are well illustrated in a story told by descartes after he died . descartes , it is said , had an illegitimate daughter , a francine who died when he was five years old . descartes ’s story , according to the story , was so struck in grief that he had created an automaton , a mechanical doll , built to appear identical with his dead daughter . once descartes is viewed as wicked , attention shifting away from them as moral individuals . they become soulless bodies , and the moral circle closes in order to exclude them .
but the terrorist attacks in istanbul are unlikely to generate a nervous reaction in the context of solidifying democratic rights . nor do we change our course ; in the end , there will be any change in the future . if al-qaeda were behind the attacks , it grossly miscalculated . prime minister recep tayyip erdogan ’s response summed up turkish sentiment : “ these bombs aim to destroy peace and stability in our country . if these bombing aims are to send a message , i will sweep it up and crush it under my feet . ”
nonetheless , khamenei ’s invocation of the law echoes the demands of many conservative-pragmatists who lean toward mousavi , who is in no position to challenge khamenei ’s authority directly . should mousavi persuade khamenei to reconsider his position , the supreme leader ’s hold on power will be shaken . at the same time , mousavi must pursue her legal campaign carefully without compromising the trust she has gained from iranians ’ majority . if khamenei holds fast , mousavi may not gain the presidency , but continued to represent the hopes of the majority of iranians who differ dramatically with his administration . if khamenei holds fast , mousavi may not gain the presidency , but will continue to represent the hopes of the majority of iranians who differ dramatically with his administration .
but , even when yanukovych came to think mainly of himself as his own interests , his quest for personal enrichment was irrational . at the same time , something is even more fundamental than one of trump ’s reputations . a political leader has greater opportunities than almost anyone else to support the people , and that ought to be yanukovych ’s top priority . to see that , with that question in mind , he has leveled the alternative of a showy lifestyle ( chao and pirate-ship restaurant ) with that living comfortably off the substantial salary to which he is entitled , while recognizing that he is governing with integrity and doing his best to improve ukraine ’s lives . imagine that he had stopped asking for what could make him a happier .
beijing – for the rest of the world , north korea has been far less forthcoming about its intentions . it remains to be seen whether it seeks to engage the rest of the world in a constructive and sustained way , or whether dprk officials and diplomats merely throw a good face on it to divert international attention from their country ’s reputation as its nuclear weapons-monger and its human-rights violator . two days before the north korean delegation arrived , the committee for the peaceful reunification of korea ( cprk ) , an officially part of the korean workers ’ party , denounced the “ south korean puppet ” force for grave violation of the north-south joint declaration and pushed north-south ties to its worst catastrophe . indeed , the incheon visit comes within a range of mixed messages . on the day incheon ’s visit , north korea ’s state news executive continued bellicose and derogatory language toward south korea and the us : “ lurking behind it is ulterior ’s design of the us to [ prod more ] zealously south koreans ’ puppet powers into escalating a confrontation with the dprk in a bid to strain the situation to the extreme pitch and the west . ”
yes , people do specialize and should specialize ; they , too , should specialize . but specialization on the individual actually leads to more diversification . all benefit from each of us becomes good at different things and exchanging our knowhow with others . this is not efficient at both a dentist and a lawyer . when an idea is both an intuitively true and is in fact false , it is often because it is true on one level but not the level at which it is applied .
civil-society groups operating in and around the test-site villages also have not been adequately consulted on target malaria ’s work.the more interviews i conducted , the clearer it became that local people had not been involved in genuinely participatory debate on the target malaria project , let alone expanded their informed consent . on the contrary , a few people i interviewed called for the experimental release of genetically modified mosquitoes to be halted until the risks and impact had been adequately investigated , and civil society across burkina faso had been fully informed.target malaria ’s lack of commitment to consent reflects its own rhetoric , which eschews the unequivocal word “ consent , ” but regularly uses terms like “ engagement ” and “ community acceptance . ” that choice may indicate that the organization ’s leaders have already decided to proceed with release.reinforcing this conclusion , following the un convention , the target malaria attempted to draw a distinction between a requirement of free , prior , and informed consent in the context of medical research on individuals ( where it is demanded ) and in a public-health context . likewise , civil-society groups operating in and around the test-site villages have not been adequately consulted about target malaria ’s work.the more interviews that i conducted , the clearer it became that local people had not been engaged in genuinely participatory debate on the target malaria project , let alone expanded their informed consent . that means that consent would have to be secured significantly beyond the release point-subscribe nowh4 { nowh4 { text-align : centers ; for limited time only ; for a limited time
new york – today , the world ’s labor markets are widely interconnected . young people in countries as diverse as egypt and the us are in effect competing with young chinese and indians for jobs . little protest is heard , but many end up in jail . many more have simply become discouraged and drop out of the labor force entirely : not at school , not at work , and not for looking for work . yet , young people in countries as diverse as egypt and the us find themselves in effect competing with young chinese and indians for jobs .
orbán has been scamming the eu for years , encouraging other populists to pursue his own authoritarian goals – and with the eu funds – to boot . but weakening the rule of law is not only homegrown in hungary or poland . article 7 of the lisbon treaty stipulates a suspension of the rogue eu member state ’s voting rights . but , because this “ nuclear option ” requires an outright vote by all eu member states , everyone knows that it will never usher in . in fact , article 7 is such an ineffective deterrent to serving rule-breakers ’ interests by all but guaranteeing that there will be no punishment .
it is possible that bush read these messages , but the fact remains beyond his comprehension . in iraq , bush again pursued a unilateralist agenda , saying that there is incontrovertible evidence of a link between the al queda , and that saddam possessed weapons of mass destruction . even before the invasion , there was overwhelming evidence that bush lying . detection technology made it clear that there did not have nuclear weapons in iraq , as the chief un inspector , hans blix emphasized . detection technology made it clear that there was not a nuclear-weapons state , as chief un inspector hans blix emphasized .
all of these groups are driven by a nihilistic rage born of hostility toward non-sunnis and a rejection of modernity . unfortunately , as the bombings of sri lanka and other attacks in asia show , defeating isis in syria and iraq have only intensified the challenge of terrorism , as battle-hardened combatants with operational training to stage savage assaults are now returning home . the presence of such returnees in sri lanka explains how the obscure indigenous group has been able to carry out sophisticated , near-simultaneous strikes on three churches and three hotels , using military-grade explosives . like osama bin laden and other al-qaeda leaders who cut their teeth in a us-backed war against the soviet occupation of afghanistan , this new generation of jihadist veterans could haunt asia ’s security , the middle east , and the west over the years . returnees are present in many other asian countries as well , from the philippines and indonesia to the maldives and uzbekistan .
denver – angelina jolie ’s new film , “ in the land of blood and honey , ” is said to be about the looming ethnic tensions that have produced the bloodiest conflict in europe since world war ii . the film has already won two awards and is an emerging box-office achievement , attesting to its enduring interests – and perhaps a mystery – that the balkan people hold for international audiences that have been as daunting as the events of the 1990 ’s have been in decades . for those of us who lived and worked in the region during that turbulent decade , the post-yugoslav wars remain fresh wounds . as jolie ’s movie so ably clear , neither the international community nor local leaders have made a concerted effort to prevent the carnage . one exception – perhaps the only exception – was kiro gligorov , macedonia ’s president who died while he sleeping on new year long afterwards .
moreover , this trend accentuates the challenges of weak productivity growth . there is evidence of falling foreign investment , and it contributes to the us economy ’s disappointing level of investment overall . and this process will likely accelerate even if british prime minister theresa may manages to get her proposed exit deal through parliament . beyond shifting investment away from the uk , firms will also start relocating jobs . there are also signs that uk-based companies have begun to unleash their brexit contingency plans , following prolonged waiting times , design , and more waiting .
he recognizes that shared sovereignty will force europeans to become a more influential power , thus empowering their citizens . in doing so , opinion polls are currently bouncing back wildly , owing to the fillon scandal and the surge in hamon support for hamon among left-wing voters outside the socialist party . and he views globalization as a good thing , but he understands that it must be managed through durable , efficient international agreements and institutions . but if macron qualifies as a second round , he would represent a bigger threat to le pen than a outright left-wing candidate would . he advocates grassroots decision-making whenever possible and effective , but he also supports national-and european-level decision-making where it is appropriate ; the key is that processes should be flexible and allowed to hold citizen participation .
the european project is the realist response to globalization and its challenges . it started to create “ solidarités de fait accompli , ” promote political stability and consolidate democracy and the european social model . an unprecedented degree of solidarity now exists across europe , as was evident in collective mourning and a outpouring of sympathy for spain ; we must build upon that enormous potential to forge the rationale for global solidarity . having achieved these goals , europe now wants to make a positive contribution to the world stage . this is not an expression of nostalgia for past glory .
for starters , there is his answer to queen elizabeth ii ’s now-famous question : “ why did nobody see that coming ? ” krugman ’s merry response is that the new keynesians looked the other way . in fact , they had “ overlooked ” crucial institutional changes in the financial system . while this was regrettable , it raised no single “ deep conceptual issue ” – that is , it did not demand that they reconsider their theories . theirs was a failure not in theory but of “ data-gathering . ”
the same can not credibly say for kaczyński.another major difference is that eastern europeans tend to hold more materialist attitudes than westerners , who have moved beyond physical security concerns to embrace what sociologist ronald inglehart calls post-materialist values . in eastern europe , civil society is not only weaker ; its focus is on areas like charity , religion , and leisure , rather than political issues.moreover , in the vastly different political landscape in europe ’s post-communist states , the left is either very weak or altogether absent from the political mainstream . one aspect of this difference is that east european societies are more vulnerable to attacks from abstract liberal institutions like freedom of speech and judicial independence.this should n’t be overly startling . notwithstanding the trump and the brexit phenomena , the us and the uk have deeply embedded cultures of political and social liberalism . after all , liberalism in eastern europe is a western import .
nowadays , most forecasters place the region ’s growth potential at around 1 % . unless germany can shift toward a more domestic-demand-driven , export-led growth model , that projection will probably correct . yet , while most of the press coverage has focused on germany ’s falling exports and manufacturing output , the country ’s service sector remains strong . as for the eurozone , the us appears to have been overly optimistic , even though it foresaw the decline of potential growth to 1.5 % . yet that is a big “ if . ”
immigration should not be a cause for undue concern , either . given the predicted upswing in turkey ’s economy and its plummeting birthrate , the experts predict a figure of some 2.7 million migrants by that point . nonetheless , the size of these transfers would nonetheless depend on eu financial policies in its admission , the outcome of accession negotiations , and the economic case for turkey . in each case , the eu ’s practice of “ capping ” its budget would avoid an explosion in the financial costs entailed by turkey ’s accession . human mobility is off limits , and turkey ’s workers ’ would probably be permitted to move freely within the eu only after a long transition period , perhaps not prior to 2025 .
more than most people realize , the gospels treat recalcitrant jews -- those who refused to accept jesus as their messiah -- because the perpetrators of a crime that lives in each generation . more than most people realize , the gospels treat recalcitrant jews -- those who refused to accept jesus as their messiah -- because the perpetrators of a crime that lives in each generation . anti-semites often cite a passage in matthew in which a jewish mob cheers for christ 's execution and voluntarily accepts permanent guilt : " his blood for the us and for our children . " matthew then attributes to the jews a recurrent lie explaining away the resurrection and disappearance of jesus 's body : “ his disciples came at night and stole it while we have sex . " the later evangelist jan concludes that because jews deny the christian messiah they must be “ sons of the devil . "
thailand ’s decision last may to cut interest rates made it a safe gamble to bet on the bhat , the opening salvo in a crisis . but , with overly macho , too much politics and provincialism , reform never happened . inciting the illusion of a strong reserve position , thai central bank took to speculators -- and all lost . by the time the crisis hit , thailand looked like all the others swinging in desperation to the imf . so the idea that “ this country is different , ” ” ” ” that the rules of global finance had not applied , had proved utter nonsense .
that is a task on which non-governmental organizations and protest movements are not well-endowed : it can vast swaths of public conscience but can not formally commit governments . yet only other governments can do that . only other governments can do that . it was not least thanks to the effort of protest movements that france has now made concessions on both of these counts . hence the effort to nail down the concessions that the protests extracted , the hour of governments came to pass .
indeed , as the top russian propagandist , dmitry kiselev recently acknowledged , “ greater learning in the humanities ( and the social sciences ) breeds social unrest . ” not surprisingly , he complained that “ too many ” russians are studying these subjects . compounding the challenge , the cohorts of informed elites in russia are growing . at the same time , the majority in russia will not become well-informed overnight . but , because the regime is forced to dedicate more resources to silencing informed , the majority will suffer economically .
london – officials at the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) have long insisted that “ china wo n’t weaponize the renminbi . ” and yet , implicit in their promise not to manipulate the currency for strategic ends is their ability to do so when it is so desired . china ’s currency policy has come to the fore that us president donald trump has imposed tariffs on a wide range of chinese goods . many wonder whether china will respond to trump ’s trade war by threatening a currency war . if it does , the world should call its bluff .
in the us , for example , the foreign-born share of the global population grew from 5 % in 1960 to around 14 % today . my professional focus is on economics , therefore , that i emphasized the role of growth . but that clearly is not the only factor behind the rise of populist nationalism in populist nationalism . the fact that developed countries are changing culturally also matters , perhaps even more so . in the us , for example , foreign-born share rose from 5 % in 1960 to around 14 % today .
that shift , in turn , clears the way for the generational change of leadership – and , more important , the transition to post-oslo politics . the plo ’s old guard , men like yasser arafat and abbas , who ran the liberation organization from exile and returned home with the oslo accords , has dominated the palestinian political landscape up now . after they depart on the scene , palestinian leaders who were born under occupation and spent time in israeli prisons will most likely fill the vacuum . the most prominent such figure , marwan barghouti , the leader of the jewish student movement at birzeit university in the 1980 ’s and one of the main organizers of the first intifada , which resulted in his deportation by israel in the late 1980 ’s . in 2002 , he was arrested and sentenced to a long prison term on charges that he led a second intifada , beginning two years earlier and ordered some of its military strikes .
these are the key ingredients in the nationalist stew that putin seems to appeal to russians nowadays . it is likely that the regime will seek to counter this eruption of nationalism while maintaining its heavy-handed statist rhetoric . but , in order to defeat the far right , putin ’s regime will be forced to take its stand on more or less liberal ideological grounds . that will not be easy for a regime based on the twin pillars of the us bureaucracy and the security apparatus . judging by putin ’s most current address to the parliament , his regime is fully aware of the dangers posed by populist nationalists .
this new load would easily replace those electricity generated by the country ’s six nuclear reactors . in taiwan , tsai is similarly committed to the government . indeed , responding to public opposition to nuclear energy in the wake of japan ’s 2011 fukushima meltdown , tsai has vowed to make taiwan nuclear-free by 2025 . today , with more than two-thirds of his country ’s electricity needs in the world , coal and natural gas is providing more than two-thirds of the country ’s electricity needs , with renewables accounting for 5 % . tsai ’s call for her share of renewables to increase to 20 % in the next eight years , with capacity coming primarily from solar and offshore winds .
as production of these fuels grows , we will require the policies , programs , and capacities that ensure that they are used sustainably , free of distorting food markets , or compromising food security – all of which will always be its top priority . rudolf diesel ’s first engine , which was designed in the late 1800s , ran on fuel-derived fuel from oil peanut . only in recent decades did biofuels regained their original appeal , owing to efforts to secure affordable energy , generate revenue , and mitigate the dependency of which ford have warned . as production of these fuels grows , we will require the policies , programs , and capacities that ensure that they are used sustainably , free of distorting food markets , or compromising food insecurity , which will always be the top priority . the pioneers of biofuels would most likely be surprised by how little they contribute to the total global fuel supply today .
one reason free trade defeated protectionism in britain a century ago was that its adherents appealed to people ’s emotions and identities , not just their rational interest in more wealth and cheap food . in towns , displays of shop windows illustrated the cost of tariffs to ordinary consumers . many british people believed in the “ free-trade empire ” of the word . liberals and their radicals had organized traveling shown , color posters , and “ political entertainment . ” others fanned the flames of an anglo-german antagonism ; caricaturing protectionist germany as a barbarian society surviving on mount sausages and dog-meat ; lloyd geor, a future prime minister , told audiences that he was more fearful of a german sausage than there was of the german navy . one reason why free trade defeated protectionism in britain a century ago was that its adherents appealed to people ’s emotions and identities , not just their rational interest in more wealth and cheap food .
the inordinately lax regulatory environment has proven lethal , encouraging northern european banks to pad their balance sheets with southern european government and bank bonds . it will turn member countries into debtors and lenders to one another , stoking even more animosity . europeans , for their part , should now take advantage of the calm between storm fronts to rethink europe ’s currency union from the ground up . when the greek bubble burst , it left in its wake the woefully expensive economies that had lost competitiveness . efforts to create the european equivalent of the dollar and impose a fiscal union at the top may be bound to fail , despite the absence of a common european state .
moreover , inflation in some asean countries may rise with the coming of floating exchange rates . indeed , the latter now stand at more than 15 % of gdp . owing to this , their exports ’ price competitiveness can decline . hits chinese exports are thus likely to take as a result of the region ’s currency depreciations , nevertheless not entirely felt . rival asian economies will need to be stabilized before they can put pressure on their exports aggressively .
moreover , there are genuine disagreements within the american bureaucracy when it comes to assessing the threat that al qaeda in mali poses to american interests . for europe , the situation is worrying on two counts . operationally , it is confined to isr and is not involving ground troops . having watched above thus far , the us has operational and symbolic significance . symbolically , it means encouraging the initial and significant effort being carried out by others .
the private sector had large-scale foreign assets , while the government had about equal amounts of foreign liabilities . even so , argentina went bankrupt because wealthy argentines had spirited their assets out of the country , and thus out their government ’s reach , while poor argentines refused to hold the taxes needed to satisfy the claims of foreign creditors . on the other hand , when a country ’s foreign assets are held not by households but by institutions like its pension funds can be identified and taxed . this analysis suggests that the “ over-[ current-account imbalances ” procedure , which is to be introduced under the ongoing reform of eurozone governance , goes in the right direction . this analysis suggests that the “ over-[ current-account imbalances ” procedure , which is to be put in place under the ongoing reform of eurozone governance , goes the right direction .
disappointed by their political leaders , algerians ’ unity stems largely from their shared love of football ( soccer ) . the stars of barcelona , real madrid , chile , and milan are the household names . but the exposure of offshore television stations also means that many disillusioned algerians are searching for escape to italy , france , or germany as their only hope for jobs and a decent life . will the coming months bring genuine change to algeria ? will the social and economic reforms necessary to ensure the resilient distribution of the country ’s oil and gas wealth ?
the most likely explanation is a combination of the two , for he and bush alike pursued the same “ starve the beast ” political strategy that calls for tax cuts to cut revenues , thereby pushing the public sector to become broader . lower interest rates worked , but not so much because they boosted investment , but because they led households to refinance their mortgages and fueled an asset-price bubble . in short , as greenspan departs , he leaves behind an american economy burdened with high household and government debts and fragile balance sheets – a legacy that already contributes to global financial instability . it is not yet clear what led greenspan to support the tax cut . was that massive economic misjudgment or his currying favor with the bush administration ?
ethiopia is hardly the only recent example of how clashes over land rights can set the stage for political and humanitarian crises . a historic drought may have created the conditions for syria ’s civil war . and food insecurity stemming from land mismanagement is an important factor driving migrants into europe . land-related issues will continue to threaten global stability , particularly as the effects of climate change exacerbate existing problems . a historic drought may have created the conditions for syria ’s civil war .
in short , a carbon dividend would distribute money from predominantly affluent polluters into predominantly low – and middle-income low polluters , all while cutting co2 emissions . because they would lead far more carbon-intensive lifestyles than almost everyone else , they would contribute far more per capita to their carbon dividend . on its own , it would represent a smart step in the right direction – one that could n’t invite the “ yellow vest ” response . but let us just say that there is a silver bullet to it . on its own , it would represent a smart step in the right direction – one that could n’t invite a “ yellow vest ” response .
a further lesson for sarkozy from germany is that an enlightened corporate state needs supportive political leadership in the same way as accommodating trade unions . german chancellor angela merkel makes no speeches attacking a strong euro and the european central bank ’s mandate of price stability . this is not to say that merkel is a free-market capitalist – there is little evidence for it . on the contrary , she advocates an independent ecb , and has let germany ’s trade unions , and companies know they will have to live with a solid currency and an anti-inflationary monetary policy . rather , she simply understands that for an economy in need of a competitive , bad-mouthing euro and the ecb are sending the wrong signals .
owing to its geopolitical clout , germany ’s perspective is now synonymous with that of the european union . and the eu ’s outlook is not that of a hegemon ; rather , it is concerned with the rule of law , inclusive , and peaceful reconciliation of the interests of member states . just as there can be no french security without germany , there can be no german security without poland . germany is in the same boat as all other europeans with respect to its security . germany ’s location alone makes nationalism a bad idea ; and , besides , its most fundamental political and economic interests depend on a strong , successful eu – particularly at the age of trump .
indeed , very few of those who receive ect also receive benzodiazepines , causing significant autobiographical memory problems when given alone and the antipsychotic drugs , causing difficulties with the names or telephone numbers , and other comparable problems . yet , for the first time , critics have found it hard to demonstrate memory or any other cognitive problems that endure beyond three months . in fact , there is no dispute that ect can cause a short-term memory loss . nor can the enduring autobiographical memory disturbances and inability to remember lists readily attributable to ect , because ect is rarely given to it . true , the same thing applies to antidepressants .
but no us government has found cacs adequate to resolving domestic restructuring . if they were , there would be no need for a domestic bankruptcy law that spells issues like precedence and fair treatment . so why should we think they were willing to suffice in the far more complex world of sovereign-debt restructurings ? above all , cacs still suffer from the “ aggregation ” problem . if the cac required , say , the us 75 % of its holders of every bond class , the vultures could buy 26 % of just one bond class and block an entire restructuring .
holding talks in the current atmosphere of mistrust , mutual recrimination , and fearmongering will require substantial investment in political capital for a lasting period . a quick deal will simply be impossible to implement . instead , it should strengthen the case for open dialogue and tough bargaining , precisely what has long been missing from western policy in the ukraine crisis and its entirety in the post-soviet eurasian region . we arrived at that moment precisely because both russia and the west spent more than a decade seeking their unilateral advantages and eschewing real compromises . moving beyond currently adversarial approaches to find common ground will take time .
but it also represents a global gold standard in many fields , including technology , defense and research and development . contrary to china ’s statist legacy , america ’s historical experience instilled in its citizens and leaders a devotion to liberty , including free markets and local autonomy . the us federal government expanded its greatness during and after wwii , reflecting the country ’s new global hegemony and the prosperity of its middle class ( created in no small part by the new deal ’s support for unionization and home ownership ) . the government assumed a larger role in areas ranging from defense and foreign policy to health care and social security . america ’s federal government ’s size and power grew only slowly until the 1930s , when a new deal – which included federal programs , public works projects , and financial reform and regulation – was enacted in response to the great depression .
the precise number of european fighters who received training from isis and returned home remains unknown . abdelhamid abaaoud , who led the paris attacks in november 2015 , argued that he was one of 90 isis-trained terrorists in europe . isis had so far hit france and turkey the hardest . france has endured more than 230 deaths and some 700 injured , while turkey endured more than 220 deaths and an estimated 900 injuries . isis has reportedly trained 400-600 fighters for “ outside operations ” involving urban guerrilla warfare , improvised explosive devices ( ieds ) , surveillance , countersecurity , and fortification .
in bangladesh , for example , brac schools run by brac employ female teachers ( which are key to boosting girls ’ enrollment ) and outperform government-run schools in educational learning outcomes . fortunately , the afghan government has begun opening its doors to innovative ngo models like brac ’s community-based education program . women account for just over one-third of all afghan primary and secondary school teachers , owing partly to extraordinarily low female literacy . but a shortage of qualified female teachers makes scaling up such efforts to render it impossible . to account for the learning crisis in many developing countries , governments and development agencies should look for more opportunities to form strategic partnerships with non-state providers .
in all four of these countries , the severity of economic mismanagement reflects a longstanding use of state expenditures to fund the regime ’s allies and clients , rather than benefit the entire population . these economic shocks have exposed the vast costs for each country ’s sectarian-based political system . and demonstrators , fueled by economic grievances , have been roiled by an improvement in broader security conditions , owing to the defeat of the islamic state and the wind-down of the war in syria . these regimes have dominated each country ’s private sector through cronyism , not only to extract and distribute rents to its clients ; they are also blocking the emergence of autonomous players capable of financing an opposition movement . as a result , both capital and skill have misallocated , the business climate has deteriorated , and competition , innovation , and growth has suffered .
will europe ’s second decade in the second decade be as successful as its first ? currently , it is boldly highlighting the disparate , even discordant , fiscal responses now being embraced by european union governments . this raises the old question as to whether a currency union can work without a fiscal union or at least a stronger , more binding fiscal rules ( the maastricht deficit commitment is too easily breached ) . but the diminishing flexibility to response to economic shocks will surely test it . to that we must add coordinated financial regulation and bailout policies , with deposits moving rapidly across borders in response to national guarantees and ecb insurance .
today , language barriers prevent many immigrant parents from assimilating their children with their homework because the texts are held only in english . but imagine a world , where textbooks are continually updated and corrected by contributors legion . but imagine a world where textbooks are continually updated and corrected by the contributors legion . such a world was just a dream ten years ago ; by the end of the century , one would have . today , language barriers prevent many immigrant parents from assimilating their children with their homework because texts are found only in english .
one powerful school of thought that emerged almost soon after the killing began in 1989 is that the more radical faculty leaders had been reckless . by provoking the regime , it had students derailed any chance of slow political reform , which their more moderate elders had a careful task at train . indeed , so proponents of this college often add , while china was n’t yet ready for democracy . if only they could take place in china , the authorities would stand for it . they should have been clear to them that a violent crackdown was unavoidable .
yet international donors are dragging their feet both in meetings with existing commitments and in making new ones . it is too late now for non-military instruments of coercion to have much effect , even though the security council ’s threats of the international criminal court ’s prosecution of atrocity crimes – including any use of chemical weapons – must remain on the table . but what of the military-response options still strongly favored by many policymakers and pundits ? and all aid around the world will not even be able to stop the killing , or perhaps not everywhere in the world . delivery problems elsewhere abound in war zones , but not everywhere .
trump ’s global trade war is equally self-defeating . for example , when trump calls to reduce america ’s military involvement in the middle east , he is simply echoing obama . yet , by reneging on the nuclear deal with iran , trump has made war in the region a more likely prospect . by slapping tariffs on america ’s closest allies , he is practically driving them into china ’s arms . and , by trump ’s means to de-escalate north korea ’s international isolation while gaining almost nothing in return , he has strengthened china ’s position in east asia .
each country could create a council that presents public entities ( transportation , public works , customs ) and major users ( exporters and logistics companies ) that must work together to identify ways to reduce logistics costs . regions then can turn to growth engines . merchandise need n’t bear through the capital , as it does in most latin american and caribbean countries , with the combined cost of increased . the communications between user and government services are vitally important to achieve any real improvement . it is just as vital for committees to be developed along similar lines in each country ’s provincial regions .
the idea of a temporary exit from the euro is especially ill-advised . the fdp ’s ideas have broad support in germany and among german economists ( and shared by a number of other european economists ) . and they are consistent with positions taken by germany ’s ministry of finance under the previous government . but policies that might work in the perfect world of efficient and resilient financial markets might be dangerously dangerous if applied in highly imperfect real-world markets . as we saw a decade ago , financial institutions operating in an environment of uncertainty can become fragile and break down , imposing high costs on society .
will it return to robust growth , or will the us experience an anemic recovery , à la japan in the 1990 ’s ? right now , i cast my vote for the latter , especially because an enormous debt legacy is likely to dampening enthusiasm for the great stimulus required . without a sufficiently large stimulus ( in close to 2 % of gdp ) , we will face a vicious deflationary spiral : a weak economy will mean more bankruptcies , pushing up share prices and interest rates up , undermining consumer confidence and weakening banks . with consumption and investment likely to be cutting off further , more spending will be cutting . many wall street financiers who have received their gobs of cash go back to their fiscal religion of low deficits .
prague – global free trade provides the greatest opportunity to improve human welfare over the next decade and a half . it has already helped lift more than one billion people out of poverty over the last quarter-century . lowering trade barriers even more could double average incomes in the world ’s poorest parts over the next 15 years . yes , there are costs to free trade that must be better address ; but the costs vastly overwhelm the benefits . yet , in rich countries today , the sentiment has turned on free trade .
nevertheless , nigeria ( and perhaps zanzibar ) remain the exception in the islamic assertiveness in sub-saharan africa , and the notion of an active “ islamic world ” includes only a relatively restricted segment of sub-saharan african muslims . when muslims form a minority , they have tended to co-exist peacefully with other religions , but where their populations are substantial ( as in nigeria ) , they tend to assert themselves . nevertheless , muslims in sub-saharan africa , like the majority of muslims worldwide , exhibit a of us versus them ” a mentality , mentality . whatever the ethnic and other divisions are at stake , the “ us ” versus them ” sentiment has played a large role in fomenting religious conflict in nigeria . whether or not they love it , most of sub-saharan african muslims are represented by states that are mostly secular , christian , or dominated by other religions .
indeed , piketty argues that our “ obsession with growth ” ” merely serves as an excuse for not doing anything about health , about education , or about redistribution . and it is an obsession rooted very much in the present . “ one percent real growth means doubling down on the size of your economy every 30 or 35 years . ” piketty sees this as grounds “ to be somewhat optimistic . ” and it is an obsession , rooted very much in the present .
this language represents a sharp departure from that of previous eu communiqués . to good reason , many europeans are sensitive to human-rights issues in hong kong , xinjiang , and elsewhere . europeans , too , are rightly worried about an economic issue . just as the european commission warned earlier this year ( under its predecessor ) , after the eu , that china has become an economic competitor in the pursuit of technological leadership and a systemic rival promoting alternative economic-policy models . in fact , the next year will be critical . for good reason , many europeans are sensitive to human-rights issues in hong kong , xinjiang , and elsewhere .
a left-leaning democrat might do the same , given the left ’s fascination with risky ideas that encourages massive fed-funded debt . trump , who has repeatedly criticized incumbent fed chair jerome powell for pursuing too little monetary-policy easing , would likely select a dovish candidate . center-leftists , biden , amy klobuchar , pete buttigieg , might reappoint powell who has done good business , or select a moderate democratic economist , such as former fed vice chair alan blinder or former us treasury secretary larry summers . a final question to consider when assessing america ’s presidential candidates is whom each would appoint as america ’s next chair . though the us democrats have often criticized trump ’s approach , they are not proposing further trade liberalization .
in charles savage ’s recent account of guantánamo bay “ uprising , ” the new york times credulously reproduced the “ arsenal ” that gitmo ’s officials had displayed reporters in a video still . other recent “ ” “ terror ” – related reporting was as flimsy . the boston globe , for example , ran an article about the man – identified only by his first name , danny of what the brothers carjacked out for three days after the attack – and could be referred . williams claimed that the brothers ’ only word ’ conversation that he understood was “ manhattan , ” ” ” ” and that terrorists asked him whether his car could abandon that state , say , by the end of new york . the globe ’s one-source report proved nothing – and was unverifiable by other reporters or citibank , but suggested a lot , leading to the spate of equally unverifiable news reporting that new york was targeted .
at the same time , those gains are not evenly distributed , and sub-saharan africa has seen far less progress than other areas . a second study , funded by ifad and recently released by the international food-policy research institute , examines a worldwide economic downturn starting in 2012 amid rural populations . it finds that , following the us downturn , 38 million more people will remain in extreme poverty in 2030 than probably otherwise would have done , with middle-income countries ’ farm households particularly at risk . this poses a serious challenge to the sdgs ’ end of poverty “ in all its forms everywhere , ” ” ” and strengthens the case for policies and investments specifically targeting rural areas , which is where poverty-reduction measures are necessary for a larger number of ways . rural areas ’ progress so far reveals their future potential .
the classic case is britain ’s short-lived return to gold in the interwar period . such policies could then be completely subjugated to the demands of the gold standard and free capital mobility . but , once the political franchise was enlarged , the working class got organized , and mass politics became the norm , domestic economic goals began to compete with ( and overwhelm ) external rules and constraints . the attempt to reconstitute the pre-world war i model of globalization collapsed in 1931 , with domestic politics forcing the british government to choose domestic reflation over the gold standard . the architects of the bretton woods regime kept that lesson in mind as it redesigned the world ’s monetary system in 1944 .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime ; but it does not all-out war . washington , dc , more than 60 % of all employed women in sub-saharan africa work in agriculture . yet the region ’s women farmers often reap meager harvests , not because of inclement weather or poor soil quality , but because of their gender – or – or , more specifically , owing to a dense web of laws , policies , programs , and customs that put them at an important disadvantage . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
beyond the need to alleviate the human misery that fills the television screens and front pages of newspapers lies an imperative not to miss the significant medium-term opportunities that migration provides . after all , a significant share of the incoming refugee population is said to be educated , motivated , and committed to building a better future in their new homes . while there are pockets of high unemployment in europe today , the ratio of workers to the elderly will decline considerably in the longer term . as the german government and some corporate leaders , including the daimler-benz ceo , have already recognized , a open-minded approach to refugee absorption , and integration can help to alleviate some of europe ’s protracted structural problems . and , already , labor-market flexibility has been undermined by structural inertia , including hardship retooling and re-skilling workers , particularly the long-term unemployed .
digitization could enable the formal sector to offer a spectrum of benefits for workers and responsibilities for employers . with digital commerce having estimated to benefit at least 80 million young africans by 2030 , gig workers ’ opportunities will rise . and , with access to a broad range of valued benefits , from health-insurance subsidies to pensions , the obama administration has a powerful reason to registering their businesses and pay taxes , they will have a powerful reason to formalize their work . this would enable independent workers to accumulate and manage their benefits , ultimately gaining the safety net like that of full-contracted employees . for example , if an independent worker drives one hour for uber and walking a dog for another hour on the checklist , any platform would contribute an equal amount to his or her benefits .
for starters , they must take action to protect the rural environment , ensure pet welfare and enhance education , knowledge transfer , and entrepreneurial training for farmers and farm workers . at the same time , the uk must ensure that its agricultural sector can seize the new technologies . british policymakers must move beyond ad hoc responses to natural and man-made disasters , by building more effective and robust protection systems . for example , they could facilitate the provision of affordable insurance to farmers , or create some kinds of mutual-assistance schemes . implementing ( and financing ) such initiatives will require sustained political will .
frankfurt – the european central bank is at the center of a big , risky experiment . its benchmark interest rates have remained near zero for the next six years . crisis management has resulted in large market distortions , with some segments of ’ performance no longer strongly explainable by fundamental economic data . the unintended consequences of such a policy become increasingly visible – and will become increasingly tangible with america ’s federal reserve ’s exit from post-2008 ultra-loose monetary policy . meanwhile , us financial markets are awash in liquidity , and the third is now running close to zero .
we ’ve seen hints of the new paradigm in apple ’s iphone that allows the gestural finger motions ; but in the intelligence community , conceptions of concept visualization can be so radical that most ordinary users might barely recognize what that happened . designs are inspired by cognitive science , the arts , even the science fiction . it is easy to forget that in a few months ago , a telephones had neither the buttons nor cordial – you had to choose a handset nor ask the operator to make the connection . the phone-dial did n’t appear until 1919 , when the first group of self-designated , “ user interface scientists ” ” ” at western electric regarded what its most counterintuitive form should have been . as the improvement of a computer interface , the form is a key one .
as plato tells us , prometheus ’s name means “ foresight , ” ” ” because he has always been looking ahead , unlike his diligent brother , epimetheus , whose name means “ hindsight ” . but that , too , is not the whole story , as it is , it seems , to be safe . as the more rational and justifiably paranoid of the two , prometheus has tried to warn his brother not to accept zeus ’s dangerous gift . yet epimetheus charmed pandora ’s and heedlessly welcomed her in his life . only later , he came to realize his terrifying mistake .
the crux of the problem is that a draft constitution would give the eu a new and far simpler method to take majority vote in the council of ministers . under the method adopted three years ago at the eu ’s nice summit , each member state has a certain number of governing votes , weighted according to population , but small countries protect having proportionally more votes than the big countries . the chances are that , whatever the outcome of they may be , they will be able to do so once more . indeed , downplaying the gravity of the latest crisis is easy : one may argue that the immediate cause of a breakdown , when closely examined , is not , indeed , all that may be serious . that system is , after all , known to have qualified majority voting .
rome – the prices of a broad range of staple food rose dramatically during the summer of 2007-2008 , creating a food crisis for many poor and developing countries . international prices of maize , rice , and wheat , for example , reached their peak in just 30 years , generating political and economic instability – and fueling food riots in many countries . several factors contributed to the crisis , including high oil prices , heavy demand in crops from the bio-fuels sector , falling global stockpiles of food commodities , and lower cereal production . robust economic growth and expansionary monetary policies further boosted the trend , as did protectionist measures , such as export-led restrictions . while these factors no doubt placed upward pressure on food prices , they alone can not explain steep hikes .
the similarities to the islamic state ’s views are glaring . indeed , turkey has offered logistical support to the islamic state ( isis ) , even as it has allowed the group ’s murderous members to massacre thousands of civilian kurds and the yazidis in the syrian city of kobani on turkey ’s doorstep . erdoğan ’s aspirations to restore turkey ’s primacy in the sunni world is driving it to collude with that challenge to the western-devised regional order . this highlights another issue that turkey and the islamic state converge : the kurds . indeed , in a video produced after the battle for mosul dam in august , the group called for the “ end of sykes-picot ” ” ” ” ” ” ” and announced the need to redraw the middle east ’s western-imposed political map .
but perhaps no current leader is more susceptible to misbegotten science and half-baked conspiracy theories than american president and wannabe authoritarian , donald trump . since entering the white house , the lunacy has merely grown stronger . so far , he has refrained from claiming outright that these markets are acting at the behest of “ world jewry ” ( the architects , many turkish islamists believe , with the late 1908 of the young turk revolution and the secular republic that arose after world war i ) . one should never forget that trump wormed his way into us politics by promoting the racist “ birther ” argument that argued that then-president barack obama was not born in america , and that he therefore did not qualify for the office that he held . yet his core supporters hear the dog whistle behind his condemnations of finance forces – the forces that now appear to be demanding higher interest rates .
the us is also doing its best to make ukraine attractive to foreign investors . indeed , ten leading international energy firms will participate in privatizing the first group of companies . in the energy sector , we are privatizing state-owned energy distributors . to ensure full transparency in the tender process , and to eliminate the problems that have been identified in the past , western advisers are aiding the us . for our intention is to attract large western energy companies with experience in the field as strategic investors .
to be sure , japan , korea , and singapore had similar political models in the past ( though they later adapted them in line with their gdp growth ) . now , however , these countries are espousing forms of state-sanctioned state capitalism and a return to industrial policies ( emboldened by the 2008 global financial meltdown , which signaled a new rationale for going back to government intervention ) . in japan , the postal services that was supposed to be privatized are supposed to be re-nationalized , causing the role of government finance to expand . japan ’s air lines , which had been almost bankrupt , rescued the government bailout , a device that seemed increasingly common . even so , chinese policy choices have had a substantial impact on other asian countries , with china ’s emerging state-capitalist ” economic model now imitating elsewhere in the region .
since the 2008 financial crisis , the world has become used to such linkages and spillovers . without the ecb ’s commitment , in place since may 2012 to prevent sovereign-debt yields from soaring , there would have been persistent risks for the eurozone – and , indeed , to the whole edifice of the european union – of sovereign-debt default . by contrast , many emerging-market economies , highly reliant on commodity export earnings , were stressed by the commodity-price reset , sluggish growth in advanced economies , and slower growth in china . capital flight would have materially added to their plight , in some cases – disastrously so . but at least europe , however , has benefited from falling commodity prices .
and let the world take note : conditions are even worse today than at any time since the occupation began . let the world remember that the gaza crisis is a manmade disaster . almost half the labor force is unemployed ; the local industry has collapsed . water and sewage systems are failing ; garbage pile up in street . seventy-nine percent of gaza ’s households live in poverty ; eight out of ten depend on food aid .
new york – the european union needs to accept responsibility for its lack of a shared asylum policy that has transformed this year ’s rising tide of refugees from a manageable problem into yet another political crisis . the eu needs a comprehensive plan to respond to the crisis , one that reasserts effective governance over the flows of asylum-seekers in so that they take place in the safe , orderly fashion , and a speed that is reflected in europe ’s capacity to absorb them . this precipitated a panic among asylum-seekers , the general public , and the eu itself , in charge of law and order . every member state has been selfishly focusing on its own interests , often acting against the interests of others . asylum-seekers have been the leading victims , who are a leading victims , often know what they are .
to be sure , whether they are right about that remains to be seen . economists would admit that xi ’s campaign has also conveniently removed many of his potential rivals . but they would argue that his strengthened position now enables him to replace the credit-fueled growth model with something more sustainable . despite xi ’s success in consolidating his power and expanding his hold on it indefinitely , there is reason to doubt that he will be willing to gamble on a new economic model should sustainability prove incompatible with sustaining rapid growth . this is where the technologists surges in , by offering new ways to correct or avoid potential mistakes .
history suggests that international disputes over debt and transfers are serious dangers . the american economist martin feldstein wrote in 1997 that a monetary union would produce intra-european conflict . at that time , he was derided , and regarded as an entrenched challenger to the european project . unfortunately , his insight was correct : european countries today are at loggerheads not in defiance of the common currency , but precisely because of it . in the 1920 ’s and the 1930 ’s , representatives of european states devoted innumerable meetings to resolving them ( at the time , largely german reparations ) .
whereas the central distinction in nineteen eighty-four is between rulers and ruled , in a brave new world , people are split into different social orders , defined by disparate tastes and lifestyles . the same could be said about china today , where the gaps between the rich and poor , the urban and rural populations , and the coastal and inland culture are so great that it is much harder than they were before to convince people from a varied walks of life to feel shared by shared plights and goals . to be sure , no single novel provides a perfect lens through which to view any society . still , lately , there have been more moments to favor huxley ’s vision of political order over that of orwell . whereas the main distinction in nineteen eighty-four is between rulers and ruled , in a brave new world , people split into different social orders defined by disparate tastes and lifestyles .
this suggests that progressive politicians who envisage an active government role in reshaping economic opportunities face an uphill battle in winning the electorate . fearing losing that battle may explain the timidity of the left ’s response . they are susceptible to persuasion , experiences , and changing circumstances . yet the lesson of recent studies is that beliefs about what government can and should do are not immutable . similar trends exist in many european countries , especially southern europe .
copenhagen – in one of his first public-policy statements as america ’s president-elect , barack obama directed the fight against climate change and made clear both his views and the facts on which those priorities rest . obama ’s policy outline was presented through video to california governor arnold schwarzenegger ’s governors ’ governors ’ global warming summit with the us , again demonstrated in poznan , poland , the leaders assembled to flesh out a roadmap for global warming . such a declaration is now a commonplace for most political leaders around the world , despite it neglects to address the question of how much the us can do to help america and the world through climate policies versus other policies . according to obama , “ few challenges facing america and the world are more urgent than fighting climate change . ” unfortunately , both are currently weak , or even wrong , either .
still , for centuries the british empire generated the wealth , supplying the raw materials and created globe-spanning professional opportunities for all inhabitants of the british isles . thus , while the eu ’s “ outer empire ” enabled the convergence of the uk ’s various national identities around a common british identity , the “ inner empire ” was a decidedly complacent kind . prior to the creation of an overseas empire – first in north america and the caribbean , then in india and southeast asia – the english built up a land empire by expanding from the south of the british isles to the northwest . but the fusion of identity was always incomplete , not least in ireland , where the waning of independence still reverberates over a century later , via the uncertainties generated by the northern irish “ backstop . ” its “ civilizing ” mission has created a sense of collective purpose , as well as the narrative of uninterrupted democratic and economic progress . still , for centuries the
moreover , a concerted anti-corruption campaign could serve as a kind of unifying force in countries with profound political divisions . that is why corruption has fueled mass protests , from bucharest to brasilia in last year , over the last year . while a majoritarian government can ride roughshod over the interests of minorities , corrupt regimes are stealing from everyone . freedom of expression and other fundamental rights are not elitist luxuries , as authoritarians claim . they are indispensable for defending free societies , but they are also indispensable .
in other words , trumpism might be the solutions to liberalism ’s crisis , rather than the portent of its disintegration . disengaging peacefully from exposed global responsibilities will be trump ’s biggest challenge . trump ’s geopolitical and economic overtures should be judged against this background of disenchantment , rather than by an ideal moral or economic standard . viewed this way , trump ’s isolationism amounts to a populist way to say that america needs a withdrawal from commitments that it has neither the power nor the will to honor . indeed , the promise to work with russia to bring about an end to the savage conflict in syria is reasonable , though it implies a victory for bashar al-assad ’s regime .
madrid – back in 1996 , binyamin netanyahu won a general election by mobilizing large constituencies against then-prime minister shimon peres ’s supposed intention to “ divide jerusalem . ” nearly two decades later , netanyahu remains committed to old , vacuous slogans about a “ united jerusalem ” – a conviction that could still unravel the israel-palestine peace process once again . as us secretary of state john kerry prepares to present a framework agreement for the conclusive round of israeli-palestinian peace negotiations , netanyahu ’s hardline position on jerusalem is simply a nonstarter . but changing netanyahu ’s mind will not be easy , not least owing to the domestic political pressure that he faces . in a last-ditch effort to improve his proposal ’s chances of success , us president barack obama – who had largely avoided assuming a proactive role in the peace process during his second term – met with netanyahu at the white house to urge him to moderate his position .
new haven – summer ’s final day marked the start of yet another season of futile policymaking by two of the world ’s major central banks – the american federal reserve and the bank of japan . and the boj has unveiled yet another feeble unconventional policy gambit . the fed has done nothing , which is precisely the problem . both the fed and the boj are pursuing strategies that are woefully disconnected from the economies that they have been asked to manage . moreover , their latest actions highlight a deepening commitment to the increasingly insidious transmission mechanism between monetary policy , financial markets , and asset-dependent economies .
it was henry kissinger , who argued after the terrorist attacks of new york and the washington of 2001 , that tragedy could turn to opportunity . the new nato-russia council , created in rome , offers the efficient and flexible mechanism for common analysis , joint decisions , and even joint action . today , in a strategic environment marked by terrorism and proliferation of weapons of mass destruction , it is very much a part of the solution that russia needs . unless the prague summit proves any grand new initiative , it is simply because we have already launched the new nato-russia relationship last may at our special summit in rome . much has already been accomplished over the last six months to turn rome ’s political message into practical collaboration .
to the outside world , suleimani was the regime ’s mastermind outside iran ’s terrorist activities , and a puppet of its proxies across the region , not least hezbollah in lebanon . yet , for the first time in recent years , the regime has pressed the regime ’s clever public-relations campaign depicting suleimani as napoleon – or a caesar-like warrior-poet . and , as one of the few islamic revolutionary guard corps ( irgc ) commanders not tainted with corruption allegations , he was mooted as the likely presidential candidate in next may ’s general election . yet , to the iranians , he was a more complicated figure . while regime hardliners viewed him as a hero , many iranians who had lost loved ones in peaceful demonstrations or opposed to regime attacks against iranian dissidents in the diaspora saw him in different ways .
to square the circle , macron needs growth and relies on supply-side reforms to deliver it . he plans to slash the corporate-tax rate from 33 % to 25 % , and to exclude financial investment from wealth taxation . yet he also wants to boost the economy with a € 50 billion ( $ 55 billion ) stimulus package and enlarge the welfare state . his backing of el khomri laws , which have made it easier to fire workers , and his opposition to the 35-hour spend , indicate his desire to boost the french labor market in the name of “ flexibilities . ” a vocal critic of protectionism will push his eu-canada comprehensive economic and trade deals , and the transatlantic trade and investment partnership with the united states .
prague : many americans seem overwhelmed by the feeling that because the soviet empire collapsed , the danger of war can be crossed on the list of potential risks . america , they argue , should pay attention to its own challenges , and should not get involved in a world where its attempts to do good are rewarded at ingratitude . never in modern times has isolationism protected america from dangers ; instead , it has delays engagement as conflagrations are ablaze . isolationism has a long tradition in america ; fits and differing forms . in the end , america pays 1,000 times more for its primary lack of interest than would pay it out in the early crisis , or better yet , even before .
exploiting the asset-backed security model , we recently joined with the un ’s green climate fund and china to structure a $ 450 million green bond ” facility . this will enable the pension funds and insurance companies to finance indirectly the needed machinery upgrades in mom-and-pop stores and workshops from tijuana to tierra del fuego . there are many other areas where those committed to fighting climate change can follow our example . traffic-clogged cities need better public transportation , and financing the expansion of a bus rapacious transit ( brt ) systems is a proven way to reduce congestion , emissions , and commuting times . here , too , a creative solution can be found . traffic-clogged cities need better public transportation , and financing the expansion of bus rapid transit ( brt ) systems is a proven way to reduce congestion , emissions , and commuting costs .
once again , eurobonds , a green partnership with china , and unity within europe could make all the difference . the political terms of a new grand coalition government would appear clear . the spd should hold out for ministerial leadership on economic and financial policy while the cdu/csu holds the chancellorship . such an alliance would also enable a new european foreign policy , one that encourages peaceful and sustainable development , underpinned by the new security arrangements that do not depend so heavily on americans . europe , a magnet for hundreds of millions of would-be economic migrants , could and i believe would regain control over its borders , allowing it to intensify and enforce vital limits on migration .
that is why it is high time for japan ’s leaders to shift their focus from a demand-focused first and second arrows to a supplanting third arrow : a new growth strategy . fortunately , that is precisely what abe intends to do . as the deflation gap narrows , however , the global impact of monetary policy will diminish , because it increasingly affects prices more than output . when enough excess supply occurs in an economy , promoting supply-side productivity is practically useless , without efforts to boost demand . either way , success in monetary policy has a hard time denying .
race has always been a provocative topic when the need for science and statistics intersect with politics . now that the debate is heating up in france again , as the planned introduction of “ ethnic statistics ” has created a vicious discourse that touches the very heart of french republicanism . the first is the republican principle enshrined in the constitution , which recognizes only the citizens and accepts no distinction between it because of origins , race , or religion . under a law that dates back to the french revolution and reconfirmed in 1978 , french government officials are encouraged to gather information on a citizen ’s ethnic or racial origins , whether real or alleged , when conducting a census , or any other effort to gather economy-boosting statistical information on the population . there are two main reasons for this , which should happen in france .
in politics and business , integrity and accountability must be the rule , not the exception . prevention should start with education to raise citizens ’ expectations . nobody prefers to live in a community where bribes must be paid to provide essential public services like health care and education . eliminating corruption will be possible only with an effective mix of smart preventive prevention strategies and robust law-enforcement officials , underpinning the belief that greed can be unlearned , accountability can be taught , and impunity can end . knowledge-sharing across countries could illuminate the most effective strategies to achieve that goal .
recent studies have shown that when “ generalized trust ” in society comes to high levels , economic performance improves , and life satisfaction is higher . among other reasons , commercial deals are reached more easily and efficiently . a persuasive statement of american , russian , nigerian , or chinese citizens that corruption could indeed control might seem like a futile task . but the goal certainly is worth embracing , because the evidence is overwhelming : impunity is not only morally noxious ; it is also economically costly and deeply corrosive to well-being . in these countries , early ministers are forced to resign for petty infractions that would seem trivial in other countries .
there is an urgent need to “ restock its emergency arsenal ” ” ” ” ” ” ” particularly at a time when there is relatively little scope for expansionary monetary policies . both the musketeers remain positive about some elements of a post-crisis program . as they put it , “ using fiscal adrenaline might be limited just when it is needed most . ” the fed began a process of normalizing monetary policy , but it has failed to complete the job , and president donald trump is doing what he can to prevent it from doing so , by heckling from the sidelines . bank capital has been greatly strengthened , and derivatives markets have materially enhanced .
human rights need not take a back seat to doing business with china . as the case in point , many western observers believed that norway ’s trade relations with china would be undermined when the dissident liu xiaobo was invited to obtain the nobel peace prize in oslo in december 2010 . china complained loudly , refusing to allow liu to pick up the prize , and even threatened norway with financial repercussions . yet the same month for china , ’s largest oil companies , concluded a japanese-oil drilling deal with norway ’s statoil , clearly signaling that diplomatic tensions would not stop business . so , western diplomats negotiating with china should call lower-level officials ’ bluff and focus on a brisk signal-to-noise ratio , bearing in mind that ultimately decisions are being made quietly at higher levels by pragmatic leaders , who are indeed susceptible to pressure .
with the euro crisis likely to continue unabated , america ’s continuing malaise does not bode well for global growth . indeed , globalization has made all countries more interdependent , in turn necessitating greater global cooperation . we might hoped-for america to demonstrate more leadership in reforming the global financial system by advocating for stronger international regulation , the global reserve system , and better ways to restructure sovereign debt ; in tackling global warming ; and , in democratizing international economic institutions ; and in democratizing international economic institutions ; and in spain , it is not important to justify help poorer countries . that means focusing on the system ’s focus on a speculative , proprietary trading on lending and job creation that implies reform of financial-sector regulation , and of antitrust and corporate-governance laws jointly to ensure that markets do not become rigged casinos . we may hoped-for america to demonstrate more leadership in reforming the global financial system by advocating for stronger international regulation , the global reserve system and better ways to restructure sovereign debt ; in tackling global warming ; and no wholesale tax reform ; serious cutbacks in defense spending ; or substantial progress on global warming .
indeed , iran is the only country that openly declares its desire to destroy another united nations member . the ongoing struggle in the muslim world between sunnis and shi’a recalls a struggle between protestants and catholics in seventeenth-century europe . the stakes , however , are far higher than in the seventeenth century , for iran represents a threat that combines a fanatic religion with a determination to acquire nuclear weapons . little wonder , then , that the saudis , jordanians , egyptians , and gulf states seek to resist iran ’s hegemonic ambitions in the region . to be sure , this issue is altogether outside of israel ’s control .
the strategic importance of the dramatic golan heights , overlooking the majority of the northern israeli region of galilee , is clear . yet the two parties ’ agendas are different : while syria focuses on the symbolic meaning of the golan heights ’s return , israel wants a specific , entrenched guarantees regarding the security of its northeastern border , along with an end to syrian-supported hizbullah incursions from lebanon , a country that is practically a syrian protectorate . because syria , bereft of soviet support , is less a threat to israel , there is one piece of paper with routine phrases about peace and coexistence . so , despite today ’s interruptions , a context to which negotiations exists exists , as does the political will of both sides . for israel , the quid pro quo to return the golan is not a fragment of paper with habitual phrases about peace and coexistence .
but , while some parts of the us security apparatus might support an initial crackdown , violent repression would be harder to sustain . in the fall of 1989 , east germans joined their fellow citizens in the protests that brought down the berlin wall . while army units or riot squads ( omon ) stationed in moscow ’s recent police and military reforms in order to participate in a bloody clampdown , special-operations groups from the provinces staffed by chechen war veterans might cherish the agitation of sticking it to moscow fat cats . likewise , army officers from poorer regions are more grateful to the pay cut that putin ’s united russia party announced with much fanfare shortly before the recent duma elections . yet , throughout the same year in china , the protesters in beijing have been crushed by troops from inner mongolia , who did not understand mandarin and had little sympathy for big-city dwellers .
but not the proceeding would have been a disaster for many other countries , too . the crisis of 1992 showed that the existing system was inherently unstable . not moving forward with the euro would discipline even more disruptive crises . not proceeding now with bank recapitalization and government-bond purchases would similarly lead to catastrophe . that is why european leaders have taken up the ambitious steps that they have done .
but its diplomatic cognitive dissonance , criticizing the egyptian regime while continuing to supply it with military hardware , can serve only to undermine the bilateral relationship , just as america ’s approach to musharraf ’s regime has thoroughly eroded us-pakistani ties . moreover , the consequences of such foreign-policy upheaval extend far beyond the middle east . in november 2009 , when obama visited japan for the first time as us president , he stressed that he was from hawaii and proud to be “ america ’s first pacific president . ” the us , of course , argues that it , too , knows all of this about democracy . two years later , then-secretary of state hillary clinton published “ america of the pacific century , ” indicating a shift in america ’s global strategy .
mr. bush 's international credibility , they should emphasize , does n't suffer through avoiding a war but gains further through control of iraq 's hitherto covert military effort . but they should also underscore that the war is not the only one , and certainly not the automatic " grave implication " to follow from the iraq default . to give further credence to their praise , they should abandon the hope that if war had become the only option that america will stand with . of course , some of america 's allies are better suited than others to get these points across to a audience on the other side of the atlantic . alas , the german government , by its behavior in chancellor schroeder 's re-election campaign last september , has outmaneuvered itself of having any authority on this issue .
africa ’s smallholder family farmers , already burdened by soil degradation , climate change , and resource competition fueled by surging populations , face an even more daunting bureaucratic hurdle : no paper to show that the land they call home is theirs . rather than invest more in terraced fields , planting trees , and purchasing high-quality fertilizers , africa ’s farmers are seeking to maximize their short-term profits . this is especially true of female farmers , who face an additional thicket of discriminatory land regulations and customs . studies show that there can be no way to reduce extreme poverty , improve nutrition , or achieve other key development goals without empowering land rights , especially for women . uncertain about their ability to limit poverty , improve nutrition , or achieve other key development goals without empowering land rights , especially for women .
i believe that germany would have been better off in the decade under more neo-liberal policies . but this may not seem to be what german voters wants , and this makes the complexion of german politics four years from now incalculable ones . that is enough to shake up asset prices worldwide if they did . coupled with all of this is northern european discontent with central bankers , specifically with the ecb and europe . it is not that the end of the european monetary union is on the agenda ; it is merely that people have begun thinking about possible low-probability futures in which the end of emu might well be placed on the agenda .
yet , within iraq , there are very few people – sunni or shia , who see iraqiyya as a party dedicated to restoring its sunni leadership . the results of march 2010 general election gave iraqiyya 91 parliamentary seats , two more than the second-place finisher , maliki , of the rule of law coalition . of course , its organizers are loath to describe it as sunni parties . rather , they are described as a national party that invites people of all the orientations to take part . that vision has great appeal among those who wish to see the less sectarian-based form of politics in iraq .
but many are “ zombie ” banks , ” ” ” ” ” with too many branches , with far too few deposits , and financing costs that far exceed those of their more successful peers . in fact , according to the international monetary fund , some one-third of europe ’s banking sector – representing a $ 8.5 trillion asset sector – remains a weak and unable to generate sustainable earnings . restoring stability in europe ’s banking system , by the imf ’s own estimates , will require at least one-third of european banks to close or merge . for deutsche bank , market speculators already seem to expect mergers like the bank of england , another german institution . all of this creates significant downside risks for the eu economy , and , ultimately , for the entire european political experiment .
they should be taking particular care to avert the real-estate bubble , because the real estate represents a huge share of overall wealth and a vital source of collateral in finance . but the strong rise of low-quality , leveraged loans should also be a concern . none of this will be easy for governments , regulators or central banks alike . monetary tightening may slow growth out of control temporarily ; inhibiting the rise of bubbles is notoriously difficult ; and the types of structural reforms that are needed to ensure a shift away from debt-fueled growth hardly remain popular . the febrile political environment certainly wo n’t simplify matters .
so might a good idea for the eu to prepare a mechanism that spells out how debt can be trimmed . but the european central bank , notably the ecb ’s governing council member lorenzo bini smaghi , has elegantly spelled out the case against debt reduction – a case that is politically substantial and deeply moral . in the wake of the glorious revolution of 1688 , when britain revolted against the spendthrift dynasty , the british government adopted a new approach to debt reduction . many economists argued that this case based on an arithmetic calculation . but , with the right policies , the european central bank , notably the ecb ’s governing council member lorenzo bini smaghi , has elegantly spelled out the case against debt reductions , a case that is politically substantial and deeply moral .
unfortunately , the battle over the fed ’s independence is far from over . in fact , some conservative republicans have objected to another of his appointments , marvin goodfriend of carnegie mellon university , for daring to suggest that the fed might need a new approach to monetary policy ( negative-yielding interest rates ) to confront the next very deep recession or financial crisis . and , though someday , the fed will almost surely embrace that advice ( i have also published on this issue ) , goodfriend ’s nomination has hardly survived the american senate banking committee . trump may simply hold his powder dry up until a genuine conflict erupts . but , by and large , the us senate has given trump what he wants , with many republican republicans embracing a disrupter in the us , such as a disciple of ron “ the fed ” paul , or another conservative preaching a return to the pre-world war i gold standard .
yet india continues to face many challenges : almost 300 million people living in poverty , the spread naxalite rebellion , the perils of terrorist attacks of ala mumbai , and sprawling urban slums . moreover , how will singh counterbalance the pro-market trade-off between the pro-market and pro-poor policies ? how will he handle the rising middle class ’s expectations of better infrastructure , expanded access to health care and education , uninterrupted electricity and water supplies , and more efficient transportation facilities ? obviously , these problems will not be solved overnight . but the mounting conviction that tomorrow will be better keeps india ’s polity stable . but the mounting conviction that tomorrow will make a better place will leave india ’s polity stable .
a lawsuit for losses stemming from the hoaxed tweet would confront almost insurmountable obstacles . empirically , few firms are getting this right : america ’s entire national public radio and the bbc have both lately been hacked by the sea , while mcdonald ’s and laos have recently had their twitter accounts compromised . the proliferation of security lapses means that they further shrug their shoulders than to cast the first stone at a company that is violated . because few mechanisms may impede hoaxed tweets and given the high-profile response that successful hackers can anticipate , twitter remains a vehicle of malicious hoaxes , even as technological barriers force attacks increase . finally , the aqap is unlikely to face financial sanctions for this mistake .
attribution means that we understand whether an extreme event is part of normal weather fluctuations or a symptom of deeper , long-term change . the new science of detection and attribution is sharon our knowledge – and also gives us even more reason for concern . by taking advantage of cutting-edge climate models , scientists are not just detecting a long-term future of climate change , but also attributing at least some of the more extreme events to human causes . attribution means that our knowledge leads to the ability to assign the likely source of the occurrence of human activity or those of other factors . several studies in the last year have shown that scientists may actually detect long-term climate change amid the rising frequency of extreme events such as heat waves , heavy rains , severe drought , severe drought , and powerful storm surges .
the u.s. can reduce its deficits faster than it would in the non-cooperative case , but only if the surplus countries work to reduce their excess saving . the peer review process to which the g-20 countries agreed is a crucial component of a rebalancing program for it is where the pieces of a cooperative growth strategy will be identified , evaluated , and assembled . after all , the international exchange-rate system is at least partly broken down . the u.s. can reduce its deficits faster than it would in the non-cooperative case , but only if the surplus countries work to reduce their excess saving . if it works , what will emerge will review commitments by g-20 countries to make policies that are beneficial globally , on a condition that others stick to their commitments . rebalancing is not the only cooperative imperative .
given the power of the big tech firms to stifle competition , reversing these trends will require government intervention . and , indeed , taming big tech has become a major issue ahead of the 2020 us presidential election in the united states . but solutions that are proposed , including by legal scholars like liu khan , tend to focus on reforming better the use of antitrust laws . notably , us senators bernie sanders and elizabeth warren – in my opinion , the two strongest possible candidates vying for the democratic party ’s nomination to challenge president donald trump – have called for the break with the largest tech firms . this approach is unlikely to work , either , because markets have changed dramatically since antitrust laws were conceived .
during each of my field visits , i marveled at how these efforts affect women ’s lives . on one recent trip , when i met rasmata , a young mother telling me , through her savings group ’s safety net , managed to support her family despite her husband , overseas , her father , last year ’s death , and a lingering drought . she was diversifying her incomes , managing her finances , and even adopting climate-smart farming techniques . the best part was that she described herself as a “ hard-working , respectful , rigorous , and ambitious woman . ” those are the adjectives that women everywhere , regardless of their financial circumstances or educational , deserve ascribe to themselves .
stock values in the fossil-fuel industry – which is based on the assumption that companies can extract and burn all known reserves – will plummet . investing in these companies , it turns out , is extraordinarily risky . as anyone who receives investment accounts knows , “ past performance is no guarantee of future performance . ” that reality implies another compelling case for divestment in the us . if you are a prudent and cautious investor , contemplate that possibility .
it was only during the late 1970s and the 1980s that it became apparent that the soviet system could not compete with market capitalism . in the aftermath of the fall of the berlin wall in 1989 , and the subsequent soviet implosion , the g2 world gave way to a g1 +n order in which all other countries ( n ) could find themselves unable to rival america as the sole global superpower . democratic and market-based capitalism looked like a triumph of what francis fukuyama called “ the end of history . ” the ensuing quarter-century was an era of liberal rules-based multilateralism . america broadly championed this order – the 2003 iraq war as a clear exception – and , like most countries , has benefited enormously from globalization and the emergence of new complex value chains .
russia ’s economy is under severe strain as a result of western-imposed sanctions over crimea . instead , after four years of falling real incomes , the government has announced deeply unpopular pension reforms to include an increase in the retirement age . more important , russia ’s state-capitalist model has resulted in weak competition and a declining incentive for private investment and entrepreneurship . addressing russian economic grievances will not be easy , at least in the short term . with few options for rallying public opinion , putin may well decide that it ’s time to remind ” russia that it is under attack .
this stands in stark contrast with other aspects of europe ’s agenda . first , the eu ’s member states say that they are seeking to develop a common european foreign policy . at maastricht in 1991 , they established new institutions for doing so ; and , at amsterdam last year , they ostensibly strengthened these institutions . yet , in practice , no detectable progress has yet materialized . the goal of economic and monetary union , and the single currency , also adopted at maastricht in 1991 , is a bold , even revolutionary agenda ; some critics say reckless ; but the reality is that the single currency will be reality in just two months .
this past point came at the heart of the issues in iraq . augmenting the us and british forces with other “ western ” forces would not – particularly on this late stage – shift the vital perception of that intervention , both within and outside the arab world . only the explicit , up-front approval of a reformed un security council can provide such a legitimacy , and international support that any military action – except for clear self-defense – requires . but widespread international support will not be forthcoming when military operations there are perceived as some form of western neo-imperialism . this is true for the actions contemplated by individual nations , temporary alliances , or more durable alliances like nato .
meanwhile , the civil war is raging in syria , accompanied by a humanitarian catastrophe . syria ’s balkanization among the country ’s diverse ethnic and religious groups is a plainly predictable result . indeed , the bosnia-type scenario can no longer be ruled , while the prospect of the syrian government ’s loss of control over its chemical weapons poses an immediate threat to us military intervention by turkey , israel , or the us . to be sure , syrian president bashar al-assad ’s regime will not survive ; rather , it is determined to fight until after all . this regional re-convergence need not necessarily be anti-western ; but it will surely become if israel and/or the united states attack iran militarily .
for decades , governments have played a leading role in domestic media , using broadcast frequencies and licensing requirements to shape the market . today , government budget allocations are among the leading sources of media revenue . yet , in recent years , governments , too , have stepped up their budgetary clout . in newsrooms from serbia to south africa , taxpayer-generated financing is growing . unfortunately , while that windfall might be placing more programmatic on the air , it is only deepening the industry ’s woes .
a big step was the establishment of the concept for humanitarian intervention , after the genocide in rwanda and the balkan wars of the 1990 ’s . finally , the same trend in us politics and international law led to the establishment of the international court of justice ( ecj ) . as a result , international law came to recognize the “ right of protection ” against the supranational arbitrariness and states ’ crimes against their own people , even as enforcement remained fairly dubious . with its establishment , resulting in long and appalling experience , the fundamental idea of modernity – that power of states and their rulers should be subject to the rule of higher legislation , thereby placing individual rights above statehood – has gone a great step forward . finally , at the same time , those developments were anything but accidental .
axelrod has held tournaments among major game theorists and political scientists to identify the most effective approach in a repetitive game of prisoner ’s dilemma . according to the tft approach , a bilateral “ game ” should start cooperation : if a different player behaves cooperatively , so should you . of course , when another player defects – that starts showing non-cooperative behavior – should you do the same . likewise , the winner – a strategy most likely producing a cooperative outcome – was the anatol rapoport ’s tit-for-tat ( tft ) strategy . of course , when another player does work , it might be tempting to defect , to raise your own payoff , and potentially even provide a much-needed windfall .
most of the world ’s malnourished children live in india . despite rhetoric about “ inclusive growth , ” india ’s wealth gap has widened throughout the years of exceptionally rapid economic expansion . as for the threat from the far right , anyone is hoping for regional peace and reduced tensions within india among religious communities is being relieved by the defeat of the hindu nationalist bharatiya janata party ( bjp ) . the bjp ’s strategy of painting the congress party as soft on terror and demonizing its muslims as an existential threat to india has done poorly . despite rhetoric about “ inclusive growth , ” india ’s wealth gap has widened over the years of exceptionally rapid economic expansion .
but it is entirely clear that even in the 1970s , there was not enough empirical evidence to support friedman ’s ideas to justify his mounting dominance . the dominance of friedman ’s thinking in the early great recession had less to do with the evidence supporting them than with the fact that the science of economics had all too often been tainted by policy . in that case , the contamination was so bad that policymakers ’ unwillingness to go beyond friedman and applied keynesian and minskyite policies on a massive enough scale to address the problems presented by the great recession . admitting that the monetarist cures were inadequate would have required that mainstream economists had to swim against the neoliberal currents of the us age . and , indeed , there can be no denying the reality that friedman ’s cure had shown an inadequate response to the great recession – vigorously suggesting that it would have fallen similarly short was tried during the great depression .
berlin – ever since the global financial crisis erupted in september 2008 , the european union has been in turmoil . rising tensions within the eu have been the unavoidable outcome . germany ’s actions in the entire crisis have been plainly contradictory . on one hand , it has protected the eurozone , particularly germany ’s export-led economy , from speculative attacks and currency volatility . on the other hand , the second phase of the crisis mercilessly exposed europe ’s achilles heel : the absence of economic or financial unification within the eurozone .
the commitment of sudan ’s government to the cpa has always been equivocal . after all , the repressive nature of the regime in khartoum is at the root of the many conflicts that have ripped the country apart . indeed , since its civil war ended in 2005 , the sudan people ’s liberation army ( spla ) has frequently been forced to confront militias that operate as government proxies . after all , the repressive nature of the regime in khartoum is at the root of the many conflicts that have ripped up the country apart . if the government in khartoum persists in undermining the reform process and derailing a referendum on self-determination promised for the south in january 2011 , a return to full-scale civil war , with calamitous consequences for peoples in sudan and around the region , is a real possibility .
one approach is to capture co2 at the power plant , because it is burned by coal or gas . another is to capture it directly from the air , using specially designed chemical processes . but that technology , called carbon capture and sequestration ( ccs ) , does not prove on a large scale so far . the other solution is to capture co2 emissions for storage underground . ( hydropower generation emits zero co2 , but there are only a few remaining places around the world where it can be scaled up without major environmental or social costs . )
it is important to distinguish between the twin sources of concern about pay in financial firms . one set of concerns arises from the company ’s viewpoint . figures recently released by the new york fed ’s treasury department , andrew cuomo , indicate that nine large financial firms pay their employees aggregate compensation above $ 600 billion between 2003 and 2008 , an era in which their aggregate market capitalization substantially declined . such patterns can raise concerns among shareholders that pay structures are not well-intended to serve their interests . in the post-crisis financing order , governments must assume on the role of monitoring and regulation of pay in financial firms ; otherwise , the perverse incentives added to the current crisis could easily recur .
such manufactured even-handedness is an tantamount to a “ fake news . ” it is time to call a spade a spade : the republican party is overwhelmingly in charge . consider the issue of “ bump stock , ” ” ” ” gun modification that the culprit in the las vegas massacre uses to fire more quickly . now , some republican senators have been attracting praise for suggesting that they will back the device ’s ban . but when democratic senator diane feinstein suggested a similar ban in 2013 , republican lawmakers who had been most opposed .
by 2000 , that share had plummeted to 22 % , and by 2010 , to 11 % , with little more than 3 % living in outright destitution . as a result , demands for greater opportunities and better livelihoods have grown louder . chileans are clamoring for adequate housing , access to better health services , safer environments , and access to higher education – the single most important factor driving social advancement . chile today is very different from chile ’s one 20 years ago . the 29 % population that has left poverty behind is now the incipient middle class with new aspirations and goals .
success in us presidential politics requires super-b intuition , being fast on one ’s legs and , more importantly , a compelling rationale for running . clinton is the only person known to have launched her campaign twice . ( the first such attempt , in iowa , where she claimed some eight people in closed meetings , did n’t work out quite well . ) this impressive , remarkably smart woman just does n’t feel for the politics demanded at the top . true , clinton offers numerous programs she would push as president ; yet , to borrow from winston churchill , there ’s no telling theme for her pudding .
just a year ago , at the imf ’s annual meetings in washington , dc , senior staff told anyone who would listen that the european sovereign-debt panic was a tempest in a teapot . using slick powerpoint presentations with degrees like “ default in today ’s advanced economies : unnecessary , undesirable , and unlikely , the fund tried to persuade investors that eurozone debt was a rock . even for greece , the imf argued , debt dynamics were not really serious concerns , owing to predicted growth and reform . never mind the obvious flaw in the fund ’s logic , namely that countries like greece and portugal are confronting policy and execution risks far more akin to emerging markets than to genuinely advanced economies like germany and the united states . as the situation deteriorated , one might have guessed that the imf would mark its beliefs to market , because it would adopt a more cautious tone .
another alternative , promoted by the large and growing body of research in economics and psychology , is a direct measurement of wellbeing or happiness . one way to force such indicators to be more directly relevant in policy would be to track the ways that people will use their time and attach wellbeing to each . another alternative , promoted by the large and growing body of research in economics and psychology , is a direct measurement of wellbeing or happiness . one way to make such indicators more directly relevant to a policy would be to keep track of the ways that people use their time and attach wellbeing to each . surveys of reported wellbeing levels are now available for many countries , and the idea of cutting to jpmorgan chase by doing so as a metric of prosperity has strong proponents .
the shift toward finance that thatcher promoted heightened inequality and made the economy more volatile . the shift toward finance that thatcher promoted heightened inequality and made the economy more volatile . if this were the metric , then , despite her achievements , thatcherism was a failure . her “ right to buy ” policy triggered an upward spiral in house prices , which encourages households to take on more and larger debts . the big bang ” of 1986 ’s financial services task force made riskier behavior in town the norm .
even more worryingly , the fund ’s policy recommendations – particularly those pertaining to the advanced economies – have little impact ( to put it politely ) . even more worryingly , the fund ’s policy recommendations – particularly those pertaining to the advanced economies – have little impact ( to put it politely ) . yes , the imf maintains an impressive analytical margin , owing to its talented and dedicated staff , as well as its unique linkages to countries . and , yes , it took the lead bravely in shining more light on the economic impact of gender inequality and climate change . but its forward-thinking analyses have all too often proved backward-looking , with its quantitative projections consistently subject to considerable revisions .
this is particularly necessary , because women ’s situation is one of the main benchmarks that the outside world , and especially the west , uses to evaluate the arab world . and , sadly , such assessments tend to focus on the supposed immobilism that derives from islamic norms that obscures the knowledge about the real changes that are taking place . indeed , arab societies ’ predominant view often stifles outsiders ’ ability to break free of their belief that islam confines all arab women on equal terms , when in reality they experience very different preconditions . this prevents many from seeing , much less reviews , the deep changes taking place in arab societies , and how women drive those changes forward . the west thus risks depriving itself of an important key key key key to understanding the arab world today , and as it will tomorrow .
according to the lebanese publisher samar abou-zeid , however , the religious books are among the most downloaded of literature in the arab world . riesman ’s framework has special resonance in the arab world today , where rising literacy rates and rapid advances in communications technology have stirred a maelstrom of competing cultural narratives with his three types of competition to define the region ’s future . ironically , it is the combination of increased literacy and advanced technology , which are fanning the flames of conflict between the two types of “ reformers ” – a religious revivalists , and a universalist modernizers . in a lone crowd , the american sociologist david riesman has identified three broad cultural types : tradition-directed cultural types : tradition-directed cultures , which look to inherited rituals , morals , and values for guidance ; inner-directed cultures , in which people behave according to their self-bbc values ; and other-directed cultures , which react predominantly to outside norms and peer influences . take advantage of their ability to massachusetts produce and instantly propagate ancient religious texts and older literature , the two camps battle for the hearts and minds of otherwise traditional societies .
until recently , there was very little reason to ask such a question . back in 2015 , china had overtaken japan as the world ’s second largest economy . now , hundreds of millions of chinese have entered the middle class . already , china ’s economy has been growing at an astounding average annual rate of 10 % or higher for more than three decades . china ’s authoritarian efficiency model has seemed appealing to many other developing countries , most notably in the run-up to the 2008 global financial crisis , which began in the united states , and has thus looked to the discrediting american-style liberal capitalism .
there are good reasons why america ’s enact policies that encouraged poorer countries to grow fast through export-led industrialization . furthermore , there is a strong case for improving america ’s national security if , say , 50 years from now , schoolchildren around the world learn how america helped their countries prosper , rather than attempting to hold them to the world right as long as they can for as long as they can . then the us established its permanent normal trade relationships with china , refusing to label its government a currency manipulator . the reason that this narrative is wrong is straightforward . when the us helps mexico , brazil , and other developing countries grow , america is catching up with richer trading partners .
as is often the case in europe , differences among eu member states are pronounced : the share of cash transactions ranges from 42 % in finland to 92 % in malta . but it is an open question whether an still-fragmented digital-payment sector will help shopkeepers more people than the companies are offering payment solutions . there is one more major problem with arguments for a cashless society : most people , at least in europe , do n’t want it to do . according to an as-yet-unpublished european central-bank survey of 65,000 eurozone residents , nearly 80 % of all point-of-sale transactions take their cash ; and , in terms of merit , more than half transfer payments come into cash . but , globally , the public ’s commitment to cash rights remains strong , and it is becoming stronger .
one vehicle failed to break the border crossing ; another penetrated israeli territory before being halted by israel ’s defense forces ( idf ) . earlier this month , jihadi terrorists ambushed the egyptian military base in sinai , killing 16 egyptian soldiers . they then hijacked two armored personnel carriers and foot near the frontier with israel . but egyptian president mohamed morsi ’s civilian overthrow , in which he dismissed general mohamed hussein tantawi , the army ’s leader , did not reduce the significance of trouble in trouble . tel aviv – a crisis in the sinai peninsula , in which he declined general drama in cairo .
a commitment to multilateralism is not the endorsement of the status quo . the cptpp and ceta member states recognize that the global trading system has problems , including incomplete or outdated rules that fail to account for issues like subsidies to soes . but , with countries that rely largely on active diplomacy and soft power , they have everything to lose out from a protracted and escalating geopolitical conflict in which they would come under pressure to elect sides . to defend their interests , they need to ensure that global trade accounts for objective dispute-settlement mechanisms . but they also know that bilateralism – the small countries attempting to negotiate a reciprocal terms with market superpowers is not an option .
grassroots assessments of progress against these indicators are intended to complement the government-led reporting mechanism . finally , some african “ sdg 16 champions ” ” are making the target central to national planning , budgeting , and reporting . moreover , several countries have found innovative ways to ensure that governments harness new national sdg 16 data in their daily decision-making . finally , some african “ sdg 16 champions ” are making the target central to national planning , budgeting , and reporting . in kenya , all public-private officials in sdg 16-related ministries , departments , and agencies have an obligation to sign the central government ’s performance treaties , in which they identify sdg 16 targets and indicators relevant to their mandates , and account for how they integrate into policy and development plans .
on the global level , it is hard to argue that inequality is one of the world ’s great political-economic problems . it is hard , to say the least , to envision alternative political arrangements or economic policies over the last fifty years that would transfer any substantial part of the wealth from today ’s rich nations to the world ’s poor nations today . i can easily envision alternatives , such as the communist victories in the post-world war ii elections in italy and france that would have impoverished nations now in the rich north . but alternatives that have made the southern states richer in the price of reducing the north ’s wealth would require a wholesale revolution in human psychology . i can also envision alternatives , which have enriched the poor nations : deng xiaoping became china ’s leader in 1956 rather than 1976 .
the other holdouts ( 6.6 % of the total lenders ) would receive $ 15 billion , while other holdouts ( 6.6 % of the total lenders ) . and , because the debt restructuring stipulated that all creditors that it accepted could demand the same terms as holdouts do receive it , argentina could well be on the hook for an estimated $ 140 billion more . repayment to griesa ’s terms would devastate argentina ’s economy . the nml capital and the other vultures comprise just 1 % of the world ’s creditors , but would get an additional $ 1.5 billion . every argentine might thus owe more than $ 3,500 , more than a third of the average annual per capita income .
new york – the authority of the united nations has frayed , but the un ’s authority , by the end of the day , has frayed . major international finance institutions – the international monetary fund , the world bank , the european bank for reconstruction and development , and the world bank of regional development banks – are having to work hard to make themselves fit for the twenty-first century . until the us reversed the trend of declining multilateralism , governments ’ capacity to respond to global challenges will do little to improve . business can moan and media might carp out , but the response to many of the world ’s big problems is more – or at least better times , government , not less . it will be vital after bali to reflect a serious next stage for the wto and its role in the international trading system .
economists and moralists were united in believing that you should , in fact , spend less than you earn , in order to “ save ” for a proverbial rainy day or old age . getting into debt was long associated with profligacy , or fecklessness . and , if a person had become indebted , it was the point of tribute to repay the obligation when it declined , asset sales , reduced consumption , working harder , or some combination of the three . indeed , it often was more than the point of honor : the failure to repay debt on a time landed the debtor in jail . what followed was the same attitude that governed institutional debt .
more broadly , the emblematic beating of marxism in 1989 enabled asian countries , including china and india , to pursue capitalist policies overtly . geopolitically , a post-1989 gains extended far beyond the west . although china ’s economic renaissance had already begun under deng xiaoping , the chinese communist party ( ccp ) , after its ouster of 1989 , had managed to publicly subordinate ideology to wealth creation . the soviet union ’s sudden collapse was a strategic boon to asia , ruling out the menacing empire and opening the way for china to pursue its interests globally . that example , in turn , had previously constructive leverage with the surviving communist parties in asia and beyond .
similarly , rather than condemning the adoption of terrorist tactics by the taliban in afghanistan , boko haram in nigeria and al-shabaab in somalia , and destroying sufi shrines in mali by boko haram , a radical islamist sect , muslim leaders have remained largely silent . in egypt , with its 10 % coptic orthodox christian minority , the muslim brotherhood ’s mohamed morsi won the presidency in a free and fair election , after which morsi resigned as a result of the party ’s assumption that doing so would enable him to represent all of the egyptians more effectively , and pledged to respect minority rights . yet subsequent actions intended to give him unprecedented executive power raises concerns about these early affirmative steps . developments following the arab spring may provide some indication of the prospects for religious tolerance . while none of these groups represents majority signals , they do exert significant influence , and probably believe that they act in majority interest .
june 4th weighs on the ghosts of every chinese patriot ; almost every chinese person knows that official review is just a matter of time . fourth , reversal of the verdict on june 4th is a historical inevitability , like that of the vast majority of people in china . today , many of those responsible for the crack decision – notably , deng xiaoping and other party elders – have taken their hands dead . indeed , party top leadership has splintered at an event ever since it occurred . this group mixes the forces of democratization both at home and abroad with the aim of establishing a genuinely democratic system .
above all , the absence of a domestic currency means that italians can not choose their own inflation target or devalue their currency vis-à-vis foreign currencies . it has also committed specific commitments with respect to the conduct of its fiscal policy , though those constraints are not as “ hard ” as those framing monetary policy . these obligations place real limits on the italians ’ macroeconomic policy choices . mattarella ’s detractors argue that he overstepping his authority , allowing financial markets to veto the selection of a minister by a popularly elected government . by joining the euro , italy has surrendered monetary sovereignty to an outside , independent decision-maker , the european central bank .
what , by contrast , might a pakistani liberal stand for ? in any contest of thought , the extreme will usually triumph over the moderate . in pakistan , the extremist now wears the islamic garb , stands for the creator , for the faith , and the forming of a theocratic order . once again , we will see how a misplaced western national priorities can bring collapses on a non-western nation . in the dark , congested alleys of lahore , karachi , peshawar , or quetta , yearning lies not for democratic liberalism but for worshippers to unite behind unsaid beliefs .
these laws resemble regulations implemented by most of the abattoirs in the industrialized world that require animals to be stunned – rendered unconscious with gas and insensitive to pain – when their throats slashed and are among the “ bled out . ” there are , of course , circumstances where the stunning fails and the animals are killed while fully conscious ; but , when stunning works properly , it reduces the suffering of animals . in fact , there are strong grounds for believing that they should ; they all know that they should . for example , the majority of mammals must be gutted in a method that minimizes their pain and distress in as much as possible as possible . in fact , japan has relatively restrictive laws protecting the welfare of animals .
cambridge – us president donald trump ’s critics have consistently underestimated his political communications skills , perhaps because they are so different from that of predecessors like franklin d. roosevelt and ronald reagan . his inaugural address sounded like a campaign speech ; and , upon taking office , a series of fake statements and provocative executive orders undercut his credibility with the center , he reinforced it but consolidated it with his base . both fdr and reagan , after all , were known as “ great communicators . ” trump , by contrast , appealed mainly to the minority that had elected him . though the large segments of the american population hated them , fdr and reagan addressed the american people as a whole , and tried his center appeal .
far more important to achieve price stability has been the advent of a modern independent central bank , a device that has helped dramatically reduce inflation levels worldwide . it is very likely that , instead of joining the euro , italy , and spain had simply given their central banks more autonomy , they could also have low inflation rates today . indeed , with the southern european countries holding their own currencies , they might have never dug themselves as a huge debt hole , and have had the option of semi-default through inflation . greece is admittedly a less obvious case ; but , considering that many poor african countries have been able to keep inflation well below single digits , one can presume that greece might have managed just as well . yes , few places , like venezuela , still have triple-digit price growth , but are now rarities .
actually , one may have some sympathy for a president with an aide , who wants to have it both ways , as cohn did , letting his apparent anguish be known without acting on it . but problems can arise when a us president chose to disregard his chief economic adviser . speculation about the possibility of the “ new trump ” ” ” peaked in early september , when president-elect trump suddenly cut an agreement with democratic congressional leaders . cohn was seen as one of the administration ’s more moderate voices and sought to succeed janet yellen as chair of the us federal reserve . cohn ’s sin was to let him know publicly that he almost resigned following the violence last month in charlottesville , youtube , when trump equated the white supremacist and neo-nazi protesters , many of whom were armed , with those who opposed them .
on may 17 , oxfam ’s advocacy organization america sued america ’s national securities and exchange commission to issue a final rule , implementing section 1504 of the 2010 dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer-protection act . resource industries are persistent sources of corruption , conflict , and degradation . but the risks are just as real as potential rewards . mineral and hydrocarbon deposits often reside in less-developed countries , which suffer from pre-existing governance constraints , political instability , and major developmental and environmental challenges . transparency – full disclosure of everything from treaties to data-management of income and environmental commitments – is key to realizing the sector ’s economic potential and avoiding conflict and meltdown .
india ’s government seems unlikely to keep tabs on all of the arrivals from west africa ’s arrivals . indeed , scores of people fly between accra , lagos , lagos , freetown , monrovia , or abidjan and new delhi , mumbai , calcutta , or chennai on a daily basis , transiting through the middle east or europe . recent personal experience at new delhi ’s airport has indicated that the nominal arrival checks , because the government requires , were loosely enforced , with scores exiting the terminal for ebola information cards that were supposed to turn over immigration officials . india ’s government seems unlikely to keep tabs on all-arrivals from west africa . while exit controls take place in all of the international airports in affected regions , the virus ’s incubation period ( which averages eight days in the current outbreak but can be up to 21 days ) implies that someone with no symptoms from a recent infection might make a trip to india without triggering alarms .
new york – british prime minister david cameron ’s government has declared some of the most draconian public-sector cuts any advanced country ’s government has ever attempted . indeed , its education minister recently declared that funding for britain ’s top universities will be slashed as little as more than 40 % . the war against the arts and humanities is nothing new – though that is the first time that the fight has migrated so directly to britain . but the most shocking aspect of the move is that the arts and humanities departments will be targeted more aggressively than are those of science and engineering , which are supposedly better for doing business . ronald reagan pioneered a wave of policy and propaganda in the united states in the 1980 ’s , which demonstrated the national endowment for the arts .
when i visited tripoli in march 2010 for the “ national reconciliation ” conference , conflicting statements given by saif al-islam and security officials surprised me . the head of the internal security forces , colonel al-tuhami khaled , another principal suspect in the crimes currently being committed against libyans , refused to call the process a “ reconciliation . ” for him , it amounted to “ repentance ” from heresy . the reform “ debate ” within those regimes boiled down to a struggle among the various branch of the security-military apparatus over the best ways to conserve the status quo . given the recent wave of upheaval , it is more apparent than ever that any piece of reform ” initiatives undertaken in the arab world had been aimed only at sustaining repressive dictatorships and escaping punishment for criminal abuses of power .
sufficiently high rates will induce commercial banks to prefer the fed ’s combination of liquidity , safety , and yield to expand the quantity of private lending . that , at any rate , is the theory ; nobody knows how that it would work in practice . how high would the fed – or the ecb , for that matter – must raise interest rates on deposits in order to prevent an excessive buildup of bank lending ? if the credit expands too rapidly , the fed can raise the interest rate that it pays on deposits . that , at any rate , is the theory ; nobody knows how that would work in practice .
they tasked the g-20 with developing a set of indicators that would signal when any country , including the us and china , sought to contain the crisis . they called for a process that would ensure that , when the warning lights rflashed yellow , the country in question would be compelled to put its policies right . the nature of financial risk tends to change constantly in ways that are difficult to predict the use of back-ward-looking indicators like those devised by the g20 . policymakers in nanjing promised that to address this problem , and that are more likely to solve . unfortunately , such early warning indicators are better at reflecting the last crisis than they are at preventing the next one .
second , perhaps he needs to try guantánamo detainees in rigged setting , or even keep them out of trial forever : lawyers argue that torture , including sexual torture , was so endemic in the cia and the us military that obama could hold scores , if not hundreds , of prisoners whose bodies are criminal scenes . according to wells dixon , a center lawyer for constitutional rights who represents some of the detainees , the obama administration can not risk inviting crimes from torture , which calls them “ classified sources ” and methods ” that can not be uncovered at trial . at the same time , why should obama , the constitutional scholar indeed , backtracking on this path ? first , he dare not emerge as soft on terror . moreover , obama has tried to suppress a hundred pictures depicting sexual assault in us-run prisons , doing nothing to roll back the patriot act .
but the current reality is that no megabank could go bankrupt without triggering yet another “ lehman moment ” – that is , the kind of global panic that occurred in the aftermath of lehman brothers ’ days failed in september 2008 . above all , experts like hoenig , who had thought about the cross-border dimensions of the us bankruptcy , emphasize that it simply would not work for the company ’s size relative to jpmorgan chase ( $ 3.7 trillion in assets ) , the bank of america ( $ 3 trillion ) , or citigroup ( $ 2.7 trillion ) . if the authorities , explicitly the federal reserve and the fdic , determine that it is impossible , they have the legal authority to compel banks to change how they operate , including by downgrading their scale and scale . “ panic is about hispanic , hoenig says , “ and the people and nations generally protect themselves and their wealth ahead of others . ” moreover , there are n’t any international bankruptcy laws to govern such matters , and to prevent the grabbing assets .
paris – the central paradox of french politics was reconfirmed once more on march 27 . but le pen was replaced in january by her no less charismatic daughter , marine le pen . in a nationwide vote to elect local institutions ( the who so named manuel valls ) , the far-right national front gained 11 % of the popular vote cast , but secured a mere 0.1 % of the seats . this discrepancy between the national front ’s popular strength and its actual representation has been a permanent feature of french politics since jean-marie le pen set the party 40 years ago . and , with that change , the front ’s fate may also be changing .
i believe that the global fund is one of the smartest investments we can make , as many governments have understood from the start . the global fund brightened the futures of the hundred thousands of children across africa and asia – a heroic achievement that should make donor countries feel proud . the united states was the global fund ’s biggest advocate , but many others did its part . for example , australia , with a per capita gdp of $ 410 million , brought to the global fund since 2002 , an amount that enabled almost 200,000 people to receive lifesaving hiv treatment , 80,000 people to receive tb treatment , seven million people to be cured of malaria , and 14 million bed nets to deliver families in need . with technical support like these , indonesia ’s government is creating an affordable and sustainable national health-care system that will be financed entirely through 2019 . the global fund has brightened the futures of a hundred thousands of children across africa and asia – a heroic achievement that should make donor countries proud .
new york – everyone – from elected officials and bureaucrats to voters and taxpayers to express to their colleagues and taxpayers – can learn from the world ’s largest charitable foundations about effective development spending . prior to his election victory , us president donald trump railed against “ send foreign aid to countries that hate the us , ” reflecting the widespread belief that aid needs to be slashed . the united kingdom ’s largest-circulation sunday newspaper recently launched a petition calling for an end to ring-fenced aid spending ( worth 0.7 % of its national income ) . the united states allocates less than 1 % of its federal budget to aid , but the average american believes that this figure is thirty-one-times higher . and these lessons are particularly relevant at a time when 56 % of europeans believe that their governments should focus only on domestic issues , and allow the recipient countries to deal with problems the best they can ( opposition to aid is even higher in france , poland , italy , hungary , and greece ) .
but the first has fallen prey to a long american occupation , and the second currently faces a us-led oil-export embargo aimed at reining in it financially . second , further isolation of iran will make it extremely difficult for india to play a more active role in afghanistan at a time when the american is hastening its military disengagement from afghanistan and seeking to cut off an agreement with the taliban . india , one of afghanistan ’s largest aid donors , does not have a contiguous corridor to that country and must rely on iran for access . as a result , america ’s effort to give the international effect to its new iran sanctions act represents a doubling of whammy for india . first , it risks undermining india ’s energy-import diversification strategy by making it overly dependent on the islamist-bankrolling oil monarchies , including saudi arabia , the united arab emirates , and qatar , which have managed to riding from the arab spring .
a key obstacle to this proposal is the congressional assent ’s requirement to raise america ’s quota share . that opens the possibility that america ’s voting power could fall temporarily below the 15 % threshold needed to veto decisions requiring the support of the 85 % of imf members ’ votes . this guarantee could be included in the resolution dividing the reform package . it would remain valid until the us found itself in raising its quota and restoring its voting share . to secure american support , the board of governors might have committed not to consider any proposal requiring 85 % backing without america ’s consent .
yet , nearly six months into the north african upheavals , the number of arrivals to the south island of lampedusa topped roughly 30,000 . by comparison , sweden , with one-sixth of italy ’s population , accepted an equal number of asylum-seekers in 2009 . the case for openness , inclusion , and diversity within european societies has become much more difficult . indeed , italian officials privately confirm that current figures are not ungovernable . the problem for italian officials , because for other governments troubled by the recent migrant flows , there is a strain on right-wing populist parties that are no longer needed to defend themselves .
the german state registered a budget deficit of just 0.1 % of gdp in 2008 , which the oecd ’s recent projection will soar to 4.5 % of gdp in 2009 . in the united states , the budget deficit in 2008 stood at 5.8 % of gdp and , according to the same oecd forecasts , will reach 10.2 % of gdp in 2009 – translating into precisely the same economic stimulus in germany . while this certainly impedes long-term economic growth and trigger great structural problems , it also implies that the state reacts extraordinarily counter-cyclically and stabilizes the economy to the great extent that benefits the rest of the world as a whole . moreover , germany has much more inner stability than america ’s , for it does not face the problems of the heavily indebted households that are now restricted in borrowing terms . thus , the economic stimulus provided by germany ’s state budget will amount to 4.4 % of gdp in 2009 .
a few months earlier , the four were moved to issue a joint communiqué ahead of the g20 summit in april to commemorate their shared determination to change the rules of the global economic system . in the private sector , bric index funds proliferated , even though goldman sachs radically hedged its own bric bet by introducing a second term , the “ next 11 , ” ” ” ” or n-11 – to the discussion . but catchy ideas die hard , and russia has moved to cement the brics ’ current concept into irreversible reality . a few months earlier , the four have been moved up to issue a joint communiqué ahead of the g20 summit in april to commemorate their shared determination to change the rules of the global economic system . that meeting produced the notable broadside against the united states , because each member state has proclaimed its desire to unseat the dollar as the global reserve currency .
reagan ’s enduring status as a republican icon had much to do with his ability to dole out the cowboy of cruelty with movie-star charm , though luck also played his role . after all , the victory of the cold war was heavily aided by mikhail gorbachev , whose efforts to reform the soviet union hastened his collapse . advocating supply-side economics for the white working class , reagan convinced millions that “ with fewer government , ” meant cutting off federal programs , including in education , would put “ morning in america . ” with his well-rehearsed sunny disposition , reagan expertly played his role as president , but with a decidedly hollywood flair . his strategic defense initiative , aimed at ending the nuclear-deterrence strategy known as “ mutual assured destruction , ” was actually nicknamed the star wars .
warsaw – had the august 1991 putsch against mikhail gorbachev not failed , riots and death recently seen in xinjiang might have set in russia . rather than hearing about a crackdown in urumqi , xinjiang ’s capital , perhaps read about the hundreds killed in the streets of almaty , and columnists would be making comparisons with the bloody reprisals of ukrainian independence demonstrations in laiv earlier this year . substitute xinjiang for kazakhstan and tibet for ukraine , and you get the picture . as with china today , there would have been some feeble international condemnation , and some speculation about possible ties between kazakh militants and exile groups or islamic fundamentalists . experts would have reminded us that kazakhstan was never a country , and that ukrainian claims to independence are historically dubious .
the answer is obvious : china mounted a full-court to change minds . renminbi-denominated government bonds were issued in london , with plans set to create new currency trading platforms in several european financial centers . so , why did the imf flip ? in august , the currency ’s exchange-rate regime was loosened slightly . and chinese policymakers made it abundantly clear how unhappy they would be with a negative choice .
but foreign import barriers and exports subsidies are not the reason for america ’s trade deficit . the real reason is that americans spend more than they produce . the us overall trade deficit is the result of america ’s saving and investment decisions . the reason americans ’ saving and investment decisions drive the overall trade deficit is a straightforward concern : when a country saves more of its aggregate output than it invests in trading equipment and structures , it has extra output to sell to the rest of the world . us policies influence only how deficits are divided among america ’s trading partners .
judging by the blizzard of political tweaks since the announcement , it seems clear that no impact study was realized . but the truth is that its design was fundamentally flawed . there was no “ policy skeleton , ” ” ” cost-benefit analysis , and no evidence to suggest that alternative policy options had been considered . yet , rather than recognize the mounting risks of the non-transparent policy environment he created , modi discussed go even further , moving india toward a completely “ cashless ” society . judging by the blizzard of policy tweaks since the announcement , it seems clear that no impact study was borne out .
washington , dc – terrorism on the scale witnessed in paris over the past month is nothing new in africa . in nigeria , cameroon , chad , and niger , the extremist group boko haram – renowned for its abduction of 276 school girls in 2014 – has inflicted thousands of casualties on suicide bombings and attacks on civilians . meanwhile , in tunisia , the islamic state has targeted tourists , orchestrating the attacks on the museum and beach resort . in kenya , the somali group , al-shabaab , carried out two high-profile assaults , the westgate shopping mall in 2013 , and the garissa university in 2015 , together with many smaller acts of terror . and in mali , shortly after the attacks in paris , gunmen belonging to an al qaeda affiliate stormed a radisson blu hotel in bamako , killing 22 people .
that is no longer true of the thousands of princes they have produced . indeed , with the royals ’ ratio now at one low 1,000 ( compared to one in five million in the united kingdom ) , the challenge of steering princely privileges , salaries and job prospects has never been more acute . royal perks do include lifetime sinecures and domination of the civil-service system , which allows princes to award contracts and receive commissions upon the basis of their pay . so the saudi regime itself is divided , its legitimacy is being questioned , and sectarian tensions are mounting . as the elders dies off , a new generation has fallen to fight outside customers .
london – julius nyerere , the first president of tanzania , once asked his country ’s creditors a blunt question : our “ must we starve our children to service our debts ? ” over the past year , an unprecedented humanitarian effort has pulled somalia back from the brink of famine . as the worst drought in living memory has destroyed harvests and decimated livestock , nearly $ 1 billion was mobilized in emergency aid for nutritional , health , and a clean water provision . that was in 1986 , before world war i public campaigns and initiatives removed much of africa from the crushing and under-payable debt burden . yet nyerere ’s question still hangs like the dark cloud over somalia .
brazil and other countries that complained about “ hot money ” inflows and “ currency wars ” have now gotten their way of doing whatever it had desired : the fed ’s likely rapid exit from qe . whether the correction in risky assets turns out to be temporary , or the beginning of a bear market will depend upon several factors . one is whether the fed will genuinely exit from qe as quickly as it has signaled . the consequences , sharp capital-flow reversals that are now hitting all riskier emerging-market assets have not been quite pretty much . there is a strong likelihood that a weaker us growth slowdown and lower inflation will force it to slow the pace of its withdrawal of us liquidity support .
berkeley – since late 2014 , we have been advocating a model of us governance based on the tenth amendment to the american constitution , which states that “ the powers not delegated to the united states by the us constitution , nor prohibited by it to the states , are it reserved for the states respectively , or for the people . ” increasingly , in the us , california has been exercising these countries ’ constitutional rights , as well as the us . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime ; but it does not all-out war . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to america ’s interests elsewhere in the world .
yet , so far , i have taken away a different conclusion from davos . i moderated a session on “ the new context in east asia , ” ” ” ” ” ” addressed by a panel of senior representative deputies from thailand , south korea , malaysia , singapore , and japan . europe is slipping back into recession just when recovery in the united states finally gains some traction , which undermined the case for fiscal consolidation so heavily favored in europe . with the exception of its japanese naval participant , all experienced firsthand the devastating asian financial crisis of the late 1990 ’s . i could not resist the temptation to draw asia into a european debate .
brilliant scientific minds have learned over many decades to “ read ” the earth in the history of the world to understand how the climate system works . they have deployed brilliant physics , biology , and benevolence ( for example , satellites reading detailed features of the earth ’s systems ) to advance our own understanding of it . and the message is clear : large-scale use of oil , coal , and gas threatens the planet ’s biology and chemistry . we are fueling dangerous changes in the earth of climate and ocean chemistry , yielding payoffs in extreme storms , droughts , and other hazards that deplete our food supplies and the quality of the planet ’s life . the ipcc and the climate scientists are telling us a crucial message .
some advocates of integration see a united europe as a powerful american partner . others are motivated by the desire to establish a rival power center , however unrealistic this may seem . on the other hand , no one should wonder that americans chafe at the constraints of their ability to seize american military hegemony . some commentators have started pointing to the differing views of america and europe on the role of international law , as opposed to the use of force , in dispute-settlement dispute . because europe is insignificant militarily , they argue , it is not surprising that europeans emphasize diplomacy , rather than military might , to resolve disputes .
moscow – the georgian crisis last august has tested europe ’s security system and the system has failed to fulfill its central task of ensuring common security for the continent as a whole . even before the georgian crisis , russia had already seen the need to put aside european security mechanisms , including its international and regional institutions and its roles . as a result , europe must revisit its present security arrangements , analyze what happened , and heed that analysis places on reform in reforming these arrangements . the us suggested a new , legally binding treaty system of mutual security to ensure equal security across europe . europeans believe that the russian initiative is well grounded and showed an interest in launching such a project .
princeton – should rallies by neo-nazis and white supremacists be met with violence ? that question was compounded by the tragic events in charlottesville , virginia , on august 12th , may . white supremacists organized a rally to protest a planned removal of the world ’s public fleet of statue of robert e. lee , the leader of the confederate army during the civil war . a counter-protest was orchestrated , and in the streets fighting erupted . a woman , heather heyer , was killed , and 19 people injured when james fields , a white nationalist , drove his car at high speeds in a crowd of counter-protesters .
china ’s modest experiments with local elections were complemented by exercises in “ deliberative democracy . ” these take the form of a high-technology city hall meeting . chinese officials have hired stanford university professor james fishkin to draft a representative sample of citizens from zeguo for an assembly using keypad polling devices , and a hand-held computers to decide how the city should digest its $ 6 million public-works projects . the zeguo exercise was considered immensely successful , and has been replicated elsewhere in china . and wen has indicated that village elections might be extended to his next highest level of government – a township administration – over the next couple of years .
eliminating rogue fishing will help to replenish marine life and ensure food and livelihoods for billions of people . the eu , japan , and the us would work even more effectively if they aligned their policies with efforts to bar criminals from accessing their markets , enabling legitimate actors to reap the benefits of a “ supercharged ” level of access . working with the us could unlock the affordable , sophisticated technology for seafood traceability , data and intelligence gathering that helps pinpoint exactly where seafood comes from and when and where it was caught . european regulators have already developed sophisticated tracking and surveillance programs , blocked market access to countries with a record of illicit fisheries , penalized european rogue operators , and helped encourage “ yellow or red carded ” countries to reform their fisheries laws . such efforts , for example , the electronic documentation scheme for the atlantic bluefin tuna – represent one of the most potent tools to eliminate illicit fishing .
true , many of the potential solutions stem from innovation opportunities created by people ’s physical concentration and economic activity . but the urban poor , faced with poor housing , limited infrastructure , and meager services , are vulnerable to epidemics , malnutrition-based illnesses , hiv/aids , malaria , tuberculosis , and mental disorders . they are also likely to hit hardest by natural disasters like the flash floods and mudslides that devastated parts of rio de janeiro in january . yet a recent oxford university symposium concluded that emerging-market cities can improve and sustain urban health by capturing the inherent advantages of concentration , coordinating health policies and programs , adopting successful innovations , reforming health education and training , and developing improved planning processes . a second generic feature of emerging-market cities is that dense concentration of poverty help to create fragile environments that spawn civic disorders , resulting in death and injuries .
this was followed , in june 2001 , by the court ’s june 2001 decision , to set a date for trial , thereby making it possible at last to present the evidence against those individuals . regrettably , the trial backfired indefinitely , because the defendants ’ lawyers appealed the case . the courts ’ actions amount to guatemala ’s first effort to lead high military officials to trial . our achievements in the case of myrna mack are notable , but achieving them has proved difficult : the police interrogator has been assassinated ; judges have been victimized ; and witnesses have fled into exile . i was harassed and campaigns in order to discredit me have organized ; we do not know how .
that certainly did n’t happen at last year ’s un climate change conference in katowice , poland . proponents of geoengineering are right about one thing : we are facing a climate emergency that demands radical and urgent action . the intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) has made starkly apparent in october 2018 and reinforced the point last month , with its un climate-change report . some major economies – including canada , iran , the united kingdom , and the regions and cities – now officially recognize the scale of the crisis . the question is whether that will translate into a commitment to take the necessary action .
meanwhile , germany , europe ’s strength with its closest historical and cultural relationship with russia , is in the throes of a political cycle . it is both a dangerous and unfair way to underestimate german chancellor angela merkel ; but , in its dealings with the outside world , she no longer has the clout or capacity to lead europe in its dealings with the outside world or to rally the europeans themselves . with the uk and germany currently incapable of playing a major diplomatic role , and italy , spain , spain , and poland in no position to become principal players , the conclusion is quite straightforward : partly through default , and partly because of the sheer energy and imagination of their young president , this is france ’s moment . finally , macron ’s attempt to reset relations with russia is perfectly in tune with france ’s gaullist tradition . mediating among the various regimes , looking beyond their current incarnation of other countries , was charles de gaulle ’s natural instinct .
john maynard keynes , writing the rules along with harry dexter white , viewed capital controls , not as a temporary expedient expedient but as a permanent feature of the global economy . they understood that democratic countries will require the space to undertake independent monetary and fiscal policies . so they contemplated only “ thin ” of globalization , with capital inflows restricted largely to long-term lending and borrowing . the bretton woods regime collapsed in the 1970 ’s because of inability or unwillingness , it is not altogether clear which , of leading governments to manage the rising tide of capital inflows . the third path identified with the trilemma is the continuation of national sovereignty altogether .
over time , however , better attribution forensics can enhance the role of punishment ; and better defenses through encryption or machine learning can enhance the role of preventive resistance and denial . moreover , as states and organizations come to understand better the limits and uncertainties of cyberattacks and the increasing importance of internet entanglement to their economic wellbeing , cost-benefit calculations of cyberwarfare may change . because there is faster power in the nuclear realm than in the nuclear realm , cyberwarfare is characterized by heightened reciprocal fear of surprise . in any case , strategic stability in cyberspace will find it difficult to sustain . but if that makes traditional arms-control treaties impossible to verify , limits on certain types of civilian targets may still be fixed ( rather than arms ) and negotiating crude rules of the road that limit conflict .
likewise , the eu ’s decision to recognize kosovo ’s independence came only after russia made clear that it would veto a deal proposed in july by un special envoy , former finnish president martii ahtisaari . in georgia , by contrast , russia has moved from support of its territorial integrity to breaking up the country in three weeks , relying entirely on military force to do so . the georgian conflict was followed by a sharp decline in investor confidence . russia must now ask itself about a relationship between short-term military victories and long-term economic prosperity . finally , the us has agreed to another four months of eu-russia negotiations to ensure that no stone has been left unturned in search of a mutually acceptable compromise .
more broadly , such a strategy might also begin to close the deepening transatlantic divide that trump ’s presidency has opened . fracturing for the west is a welcome development , in the eyes of russian president vladimir putin and the illiberal regimes worldwide . authoritarians and populists would like nothing more than to sow chaos and a loss of trust in the postwar rules-based international order . finally , trump ’s jcpoa decision demonstrates once again that europe relies far too much on america for its security and prosperity . the democracies that built that order embody values that are antithetical to authoritarians ’ interests .
knowledge-based organizations are forming a broad array of alliances with the media , and play an important role in influencing public opinion in similarly effective diplomacy . in the us , new institutions are emerging that focus their work on harmonizing criteria and indicators , particularly for use in programs that certify sustainable resource use , as is the case in forests and fisheries . knowledge-based organizations are also better equipped to take advantage of the expanding global information infrastructure to influence diplomacy . in fact , modern international diplomacy has become more and more reliant on groups that make the rules , set standards , and collect technical data . many international negotiations over issues like bio-safety and organic pollutants benefit from such alliances .
to be sure , a new grand coalition government – comprising german chancellor angela merkel ’s christian democratic union ( cdu ) , its bavarian sister party , the christian social union ( csu ) , and the social democratic party ( spd ) – has formed . but it has taken more than five months for the parties to agree , with the largest opposition party now the far-right alternative for germany ( afd ) . even germany has , to some degree , falling prey to populist forces . in a country that has apparently been inoculated against populism in its own nazi history , this is especially distressing development . nor was the strong show of populist parties in this month ’s election in italy , where the anti-immigration league party and the anti-establishment five star movement together secured some 50 % of the vote .
likewise , constraints and ambiguities continue to plague the institutional arrangements sought by the country ’s framers of political and electoral reform . but curtailing democracy to modernize the energy sector is bad for itself . reelection is authorized only by a candidate nominated by the same party for which they were originally run , and enabling legislation for independent candidate , ballot initiatives , and referenda remains uncertain . most important , the government appears to be backtracking on a commitment to allow a binding referendum on opening the oil sector and all “ transcendent ” issues . its reluctance is understandable , because voters are evenly split on the issue , and nobody is investing a cent in mexican oil or gas if the recently approved constitutional amendment on pemex can be overturned in 2015 , because opposition claims will happen .
regardless of the form it took , it began to get some heavy blows a few years ago ( analogous to crises that hit exchange-rate targets in the 1990 ’s ) . perhaps the greatest setback hit in september 2008 , when it became clear that the central banks that relied on it had defaulted on their enough attention to asset-price bubbles . central bankers had told themselves that they were giving asset markets everything the attention they earned , by specifying that house prices and equity prices could reflect the extent to which they implied information about goods ’ price inflation . but this breakout clause proved inadequate : when the global financial crisis hit ( suggested , at least in retrospect , that monetary policy had been overly loose from 2003 through 2006 ) , it was neither preceded nor followed by the upsurge in inflation . that the boom-bust cycle could have come about without inflation should not come as a surprise .
employer can evade the mandate by cutting a worker ’s workweek to below 30 hours ( which a law defines as full-time employment ) . but even for full-time employees , firms can opt to pay relatively low fines rather than provide insurance . that fine amounts to $ 2,000 per worker , far less than the current average employer-provided premium of $ 16,000 for family policies . unable to provide insurance and pay the fine is a particularly attractive firm option if its employees have incomes that entitle them to government subsidies ( which are now available to anyone whose income is below four times the level of poverty ) . rather than incur the cost of having an approved policy premium , a smart employer can pay the fine for not providing insurance and increasing employees ’ pay by enough to have more spendable cash after purchasing the subsidized insurance policy .
so far , blair has proven his resilience in the face of such charges . indeed , he has gone to the counter-offensive , notably against the bbc , which did not exactly support the war with enthusiasm . the two cabinet ministers who resigned over the affair , robin cook and clare brief , want their own revenge , and so continue their assault on blair for his `` lies . '' but does the uncertainty now spin blair like the vulture smell of the lie ? or is it more a question about the prime minister losing faith for his people , including some of his erstwhile friends and allies ?
here , america found itself allied with some strange bedfellows to rebukes as chronic human-rights violators – cuba , china , iran , libya , sudan , or zimbabwe . it adamantly opposed several significant and promising new human-rights initiatives , notably the international criminal court ( icc ) , and a new anti-torture mechanism . on the anti-torture protocol , the us sought to derail the establishment of a universal system to approve detention places , along with the optional protocol to the convention against torture . still , with no american support , the initiative was overwhelmingly endorsed in late july by the un ’s economic and social council . increasingly obsessing over the prospect of its own citizens and practices coming under international scrutiny , america over the last few years has contributed to the universal erosion of the un human-rights monitoring system .
what needs to be said is this : britain is at its best when it sees itself as europe ’s leader . it must lead in mobilizing europe to force the global economy to work for the people , to protect them from injustice and inequity . it will have to lead in mobilizing europe to force the global economy to work for the people , to protect them against injustice and inequity . just as britain once led europe in combating fascism , supporting its democratic aspirations , and charting the continent ’s response to the 2008 global recession should be placed inside europe from front ranks . nor will it be enough to recall the historic favor of engagement , and britain ’s distinguishing role in ensuring that no country ever gained sole mastery of europe .
still , the expectation of reasonable consumer protection is being built into the us economies . if the company sells you a car that – say , is inadequately tested , resulting in harm ’s way – the company traffics in its data will be paid . the same goes for virtually any other consumer-face business , from airline airlines to foods contractors . a restaurant can not evade responsibility for serving expired food simply by posting a sign saying , “ customers beware . ” when it comes to facebook , moreover , us users are n’t only passive consumers , given the firm traffics in its data .
so what is to be done ? the implicit model is that of the “ guest worker ” who come and goes ; in practice , a sizeable share of economic migrants from poorer parts of europe stay in their country of destination , fueling increased support for anti-immigrant parties . the asylum system is an entirely unprepared way to cope with a new generation of refugees , who are ineligible given into the existing framework as they are fleeing not from specific acts of persecution but from the breakup of their states . so , what is to be done ? in fact , the asylum system is an seamlessly unprepared to cope with a new generation of refugees who are ineligible under the existing framework for fleeing not out of specific acts of persecution but from the decay of their states . now , so do what is to be done ?
she has been careful to study not only the jackie kennedy of jackie – a comparison apparent from her sheath dresses , boat collars , and a page-boy haircut – but also the triumphs and failures of that other glamorous but underappreciated stealth , radical , princess diana . princess di ’s legacy in generating the iconography that has opened the path to tremendous social change is grossly underappreciated . in her own brief lifetime , she has often been lauded for qualities ( her beauty and style ) that are secondary to her lifetime work and derided for other aspects of her character ( her emotionality and a chaotic personal life ) brought to an equal end to the point . in other words , ms. obama manages to set herself up , unprecedentedly instead , as the “ people ” first lady . as a result , very few people have noticed how genuinely , powerfully transformative her agenda is , how well she considered it out , and how audaciously she seeks to manage .
instead , both are poorly busy designing another round of stimulus , which will involve an even bigger political and policy risks . the protracted brexit process is hampering the banks of the bank of england ’s longer-term policy strategy , while the short-run impact of the global growth of governments ’ weaponization of trade complicates that challenge both the fed and the ecb . meanwhile , some pro-growth policies currently being mooted might , if not well designed , increased the risk of disruptive financial instability , and thus further complicating central bankers ’ task . the notion of “ people ’s qe ” ” – that is , a more direct spin of central-bank funding to the population – gains more attention from the two sides on the political spectrum . other risks are already giving the headaches of central bankers worldwide .
he himself presided over the numerous violations ; a fact noted by the osce back in 1999 . all of his troops , however , represented significant progress . indeed , many opposition groups engaged in the dirty tricks of the people and their three groups . clearly , ak zhol used accusations of impropriety as a weapon against government parties . already , it was resigned only after it won parliamentary elections .
madrid – over the last four decades , china ’s economic performance has been truly impressive . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime ; but it does not all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has any interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
and it is the only reliable platform for geopolitical engagement in the asia-pacific region , unique in its capacity to convene meetings attended by all of the world ’s great powers , from the united states and the european union to china and russia . for its part , asean continues to face serious challenges , with the goal of working as well . over the short term , it appears to be moving like a crab , two steps forward , one step back and one step sideways . yet asean ’s long-term progress , at least in its history , is undeniable . its combined gdp has grown , from $ 95 billion in 1970 to $ 2.5 trillion in 2014 .
much of modern economic and financial theory rests on the assumption that people are rational , so that they systematically maximize personal happiness , or , as economists call it , their own “ utility . ” as a result , glimcher is skeptical of prevailing economic theory and seeks a physical basis for it in the brain . when samuelson dithered on the subject in his 1947 book , he appeared not to look into the brain , but to rely instead on “ the discovery of preference . ” when samuelson adopted the subject in his 1947 book , he did not look into the brain , but relied instead on “ revealing preference . ” under samuelson ’s guidance , generations of economists have based their research not on any physical structure of underlying thought and behavior , but only on a presumption of rationality .
central-bank balance sheets have expanded , and policy rates have reached their “ near zero ” lower bounds . with no signs of runaway inflation and growth still tepid and fragile , many are predicting chronic sluggish growth , with some even afraid of another global recession . but there is one more alternative to policymakers : a shift to “ purer ” fiscal policy , in which they directly finance government spending by printing money , a so-called helicopter drop . the new money would bypass the fiscal and corporate sector and go straight to its thirstiest horses : the middle – and lower-income consumers . there is plenty of cheap water , but the horse refuses to drinking .
over the next few months , newspapers and television channels ran with the narrative , as they circulated into a national obsession . alarmed by the public reaction , the harbin magistrate ordered the case reopened just to have the suspended sentence confirmed when the case closed this march . it quickly became a “ rich against poor , ” widely cited as an exemplar of high-level corruption . the judge ’s ruling spurred rumors that he went easy to do , because her husband was connected to high-ranking provincial officials . the case went to local courts , where the judge ruled it an “ accidental traffic disturbance ” and gave the driver a two-year suspended sentence .
repeated military interventions in large muslim peoples – egypt , indonesia , pakistan , and turkey – impeded , orderly political development . but these countries ’ rising middle classes began to move their political systems along another direction – a testament to the power they are now hosting . that power has risen , for several reasons , by far the most important of them demographic . most large muslim countries have very young populations , with the median age in mid ’s – to top twenties . with more than half of these countries ’ populations below the age of 30 now , political development has been successful , despite a campaign recalcitrance of entrenched elites .
the goal is to enact a comprehensive set of fiscal responsibility laws that curb the ability of state legislatures and ministers to boost spending relentlessly . the rules need to impose limits on deficits , spending and debt , and require more transparency in a way that the public knows what works . third on the panel ’s list is increased investment in building and maintaining infrastructure . if matched with a genuine commitment to advancing fiscal credibility , countries could increase their economic-growth substantially . although latin america ’s economies do well today , thanks to reform and high commodity prices , there are underlying problems .
second , countries need to focus on building the underlying digital infrastructure needed for sustained success and avoiding the allure of the latest shiny innovations . too often , developing countries have seized on the new technologies – tablets to schoolchildren ! ” without giving enough thought to how it will work in particular national contexts . a new report from the pathways for prosperity commission on technology and inclusive development , based at the oxford university ’s blavatnik school of government , indicates how countries can address this challenge . this has resulted from many disappointing pilot projects that have failed to deliver a sustainable impact at scale . the report urges them to establish a foundation for the “ digital construction blocs ” ( including basic infrastructure and skills , in order to harness positive disruptions to education and health services .
but , overall , there is a hard time denying that the global economy lacks the momentum behind it . this is partly because trees can not keep growing forever : china ’s economy could not continue to get 10 % bigger each year . and it is partly because growth does not adjust completely : citizens might be better off with a little less of it , much less clean air . yet many countries remain poor enough to endow themselves with strong growth potential , and many others , though the rich , have so far failed to recover from the global financial crisis . so there needs to be something else putting growth back on track .
exploiting the weapons of an anti-corruption drive and rising nationalism ( the result of a periodically violent border dispute with cambodia ) , the royalist-conservative movement implicitly points to an extra-constitutional solution to thailand ’s political standoff . using the weapons of an anti-corruption drive and rising nationalism ( the result of a periodically violent border dispute with cambodia ) , the royalist-conservative movement implicitly points to an extra-constitutional solution to thailand ’s political standoff . in april 2009 , and again in april-may 2010 , the disenfranchised red shirts camped in bangkok to demand new elections but dithered under the military , with an estimated 91 fatalities . despite their setbacks and lost credibility following the torching of bangkok ’s central business district , red shirts have grown in number demonstrating monthly against abhisit ’s government . pad ringleaders are now denouncing all politicians as corrupt , and extol the virtue of a monarchy .
industry analysts predict that ai will drive growth in the years and decades ahead . gartner , a ai research and consultancy , estimates that ai-enabled tools will generate $ 2.9 trillion in business value by 2021 , whereas pwc forecasts that ai could contribute as much as $ 15.7 trillion to the global economy by 2030 . in any technological transition , those driving change can not lose sight of the human element ; there are some things that even the smartest machines never will do . industry analysts predict that ai will drive growth in the years and decades ahead . some estimates show that companies could save as much as $ 4 trillion annually with ai automation . and company benefits will move far beyond savings , as automation spur innovation , improve forecasting , optimize operations , and leads to better customers ’ service .
because they can not do well at all , they need to focus on what they do best at – that is , on their comparative advantage . as is often the case , it is not what you do not know , but what you mistakenly think you know , that hurts you . and the idea that cities and countries are actually specializing , and that they should specialize ; is one of those very wrong and dangerous thinking . just as is often the case , it is not what you do n’t know , but what you mistakenly think you know , that hurts you . they should make a few things very well and exchange them for other goods that are made better elsewhere , thereby exploiting those gains from trade .
the trouble is that germany has not been forced to choose . it can continue to do no more than the bare minimum to preserve the euro . europe would be infinitely better off if germany made a definitive choice between eurobonds and a eurozone exit , without regard for the outcome ; indeed , germany would be better off as well . that clearly is merkel ’s preferred choice , at least until her next election in may . deteriorating the situation and , in the longer term , is bound to become unsustainable .
both leaders gush that their two countries are now on better terms than ever before . yet , even before putin places too much faith in xi , he would do well to commemorate the 1960s of the soviet dissident song , the people are brethren ; i will hug the chinese , ” ” mocked ill-fated early experiments in the russo-chinese union . yet , even before putin places too much faith on xi ’s part , he would have done well to recall the 1860s soviet dissident song , “ the people are brethren ; i will hug the chinese , ” ” a point that taunted ill-fated early attempts in the russo-chinese union . for russia , closer ties with china are undoubtedly tempting . after five years of international sanctions imposed on russia after its annexation of crimea , xi ’s overtures provide a seemingly welcome reprieve .
warsaw – donald tusk ’s term as president of the european council will end on may 30 november , which has perfect timing for the polish opposition . after his parliamentary election in late october , poland will hold its april 2020 presidential election , and opposition voters already view tusk as the only viable candidate . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime ; but it does not augur all-out war . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere around the world . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
you do n’t particularly want to lend to them every day ; but , if someone is ready to pay , say , $ 200 to rent on a dinner party , the trouble might be worth it . and you can post different prices for a different set of times : the $ 20,000 to rent my house in london during the olympics , $ 10,000 over christmas , or about $ 1,000 any other time . so , one can set a high price to offset inconvenience and turn lopsided money on the downside . or , you may well have a set of under-used dining room chairs : you can have your dining chairs . and you can post a different set of prices on different times : the $ 20,000 to rent my house in london during the olympics , $ 10,000 over christmas , or about $ 1,000 any other time .
fifth , the two sides should regard the november 14-16 asia-pacific economic cooperation summit in santiago as the last chance of signing an agreement . getting the deal passed before thanksgiving will be critical to the undergird america ’s trade and consumer confidence of the christmas season . following the high-level negotiations among chinese vice premier liu he and us trade representative robert lighthizer earlier this month , outstanding issues should be agreed in beijing in early november . yet the recently announced impeachment proceedings against trump may throw a wrench into this process . i am one of the few commentators arguing all year after argued that , despite the us political fireworks , trump and xi ’s underlying interests are making the deal more likely than not .
but the two concepts are often used interchangeably , and rarely narrowly defined . european institutions , like germany , tend to prefer “ strategic autonomy , ” while france favors the notion of “ european sovereignty . ” in seeking to clarify matters , my colleagues and i recently proposed an operationalized definition of europe ’s strategic autonomy . we understand strategic autonomy as the ability to set one ’s own priorities , and to make one ’s own choices on matters of foreign policy and security , when combined with institutional , political , and material means to realize these choices , either in cooperation with third parties or on the other , when needed . we have also analyzed the likely hurdles , difficulties , and conflicts should german and european policymakers make the decision to pursue that goal .
indeed , the eradication of poppy crops not only harm the local community and undermines the international community ’s goals ; it also fails to deliver the primary source of revenue for millions of people . in fact , the eradication of poppy crops not only harm the local community and undermines the international community with its goals ; it also fails to do so : opium production for the first time last year was at an all-time high . so there is an urgent need for a new , long-term , economically sustainable solution that is needed – one that directly engages with the communities that go suffering the most , in order to win back the support of a deeply impoverished rural population . in september , the un office on drug crime announced that poppy cultivation has skyrocketed to a record-high 60 % . as a way to tackle this dilemma , the senlis council is proposing to run scientific pilot projects to research the opium licensing system for afghanistan , which would form a core component of the economic reconstruction process .
muslim faith counts one billion men and women worldwide among their followers . five percent have declared war on our civilization , and are ready to engage in murder to put an end to western domination . ninety-five percent of muslims , including the majority of their religious leaders , wish to live in peace and set an end to the long humiliation of islam , which only boils down to democracy and development in the muslim world can make that possibility . yet the bush administration scares the us as well . the concept of preventive war is poised to incite precisely the clash of civilizations that was predicated on a decade ago , and that must be avoided .
likewise , german legal scholars interpret ecb activities as being incompatible with european treaty provisions prohibiting bailouts and monetary financing of eurozone members ’ debt . but blindly sticking to principle would be a high-risk option for the ecb . it would have meant acquiescing in 2012 what has been called “ redenomination risk ” – economics newspeak for a eurozone breakup . nonetheless , by launching its omt scheme , the ecb has committed german ( and other northern european ) taxpayers without their parliaments ’ assent to the euro , to a potential obligation to bail out greece , whom precisely ? indeed , it seems that the typical northern european taxpayer foils a typical stakeholder in northern european banks that are over-exposed to southern european debtors .
by matching the struggle against isis to the soviet union ’s struggle against the soviet union , trump elevates the terrorist organization to the status of a great power . this contributes to perceptions that isis is far more potent than it actually is , once again , playing into the hands of isis recruiters . such a partnership could lead trump to strike a deal with iran , which is more than willing to combat sunni radicals in iraq and syria . trump has also expressed his interest in cooperating with russia to take down isis , seemingly oblivious to the kremlin ’s already-strenuous efforts to reach an understanding with russian president vladimir putin about ending the civil war . iran is now permitting russian long-range bombers to use one of its air bases to hit syria , complicating obama ’s already-strenuous efforts to reach an understanding with russian president vladimir putin about ending the civil war .
in most european countries , gross sovereign debt exceeds the threshold ( 60 % of gdp ) established by the stability and growth pact . and the status quo is , in urgent need of change , within the eu . indeed , a recent mckinsey global survey revealed not only that europeans , seeking a more vibrant economy , higher incomes , and better public services ( particularly health care and education ) , are prepared to accept tradeoffs , including longer hours and reduced social protection , to achieve them . a whopping 91 % of the 16,000 saying respondents would favor changes in the status quo , even though this requires some sacrifice . as it stands , european economic output per capita remains well below the 2008 level .
colombo – sri lanka has been deservedly praised for the progress it made since the end of its war against the separatist tamil tigers in 2009 . the economy has grown at an average annual rate of 6.7 % , and education and health statistics are impressive . underlying wars , such as the fight against the tamil tigers , typically , social and economic grievances like real or perceived discrimination , and the government ’s failure to address wealth and income disparities adequately . the government will need to set its priorities ; but success will require a comprehensive approach . all developing countries face myriad challenges , but this is especially the case for a country that suffered an intense thirty years ’ civil war .
very few people in the vatican – indeed , in europe at large – had any real appreciation in those days of a vast industrial might in the united states . yet any condemnation of pius of communism would have been exploited by nazi propaganda as support for hitler ’s war effort . the pope believed that it could either condemn both totalitarian powers or condemn neither . the western democracies , as most historians now acknowledge , played a comparatively minor role in the grand military struggle . and denouncing nazism might have been misinterpreted as an attack not against nazism but against germany in his life-and-death struggle with stalin ’s communist regime .
conversely , should the equivalent of even a single closed-off room appear anywhere , with the resulting losses extending to the entire network . in fact , data traveling instantaneously around the world are indifferent to national boundaries . networked , its effects and advantages multiply , and then multiply further . conversely , should the equivalent of even a single closed-off room appear anywhere , the resulting losses extend to the entire network . i am convinced that the economic and social impact of such data will rival , even surpass , the roles that the petroleum resources played in the twentieth century .
governments in both countries have focused their meager political capital and administrative resources on areas other than trade liberalization . governments in both countries have focused their scarce political capital and administrative resources on areas other than trade liberalization . as both india and china have stepped up trade substantially , both are seen as the globalizers of the world bank ’s criterion . yet as their experience reveals -- combined with experience from many others , such as south korea , taiwan , and vietnam -- deep trade liberalization hardly has any factor in bringing about higher growth and expanded trade early on . it is good to see a world bank catching on to this simple reality .
i felt prodigious , restless energies that i suspected he could not turn off if he wished to do so soon after beginning to recount my observations , took me to the map of vietnam , and asked me to locate areas of destruction . i felt that the request was a test – one that i was prepared to take , as i conducted maps with me in forward air-control planes . he appeared to be deeply engaged , but made no comments , asking me only if i had anything in writing at all . it was , i said , that i did , but that it was in longhand . he suggested that i produce a typed copy , providing me with the office of the general that he had run .
in west africa , private companies like ignitia are expanding the accuracy and accuracy of sms weather alerts to distant farmers . in mongolia , rural herders are receiving information on disease outbreaks to help them maintain the health of their farm animals . in mongolia , rural herders are receiving information on disease outbreaks to help them maintain the health impact of their farm livestock . but that is slowly changing , especially as more people in emerging economies connect to mobile networks , with apps aimed at collecting and sharing farm information increasingly accessible . in west africa , private companies like ignitia spread the accuracy and accuracy of sms weather alerts to distant farmers .
brussels – as the world ’s financial elite converges on washington , dc , for the annual meetings of the international monetary fund and the world bank , they can not get away with another clarion call to turn the retreat of globalization into a return . faltering trade , it is believed , must be the adverse trend that needs to be addressed . but the premise is simplistic ; at best . to be sure , efforts have been made to grasp the current slowdown . the problem lies in an inadequate understanding of what drove trade growth in recent decades .
finally , a renminbi-depreciation policy would lead to a sharp escalation in the global currency war . that is all the more important in the disorderly climate of qe , where china ’s role as a currency anchor can take on an even bigger relevance than it did at the end of the 1990s . just as china has resisted the renminbi ’s depreciation temptation during the asian financial crisis of 1997-98 , an ruling that may have played a pivotal role in arresting regional contagion is bound to stay that course today . finally , a renminbi-depreciation policy would lead to a sharp escalation in the global currency war . in an era of unprecedented quantitative easing , competitive currency devaluations became the norm for the world ’s major exporters , then japan , and now europe .
the us needs a well-focused approach to modernizing and upgrading its infrastructure . policymakers , especially in the us congress , need to avoid big mistakes and minimize the risk of market accidents , while doing more to promote growth . policymakers and leading economists alike must become more sensitive to how the fruits of economic growth are shared ; among other things , there should be better protections for even the most vulnerable segments of society and stronger automatic stabilizers . and even if fiscal policymakers were to become more responsive , they would start from the point of relatively high deficits and debts . prolonging the current expansion will require great care .
for many years , the imf has engaged its member countries in a process that is well known to “ supervision , ” ” ” where it monitors , analyzes , and consults on individual economic policies in each country – both exchange-rate policies and relevant domestic policies . these periodic checkups help to identify potential vulnerabilities and preserve economic stability . nonetheless , the globalized economy ’s increasingly complex policy challenges demand a fresh look at that process . this is one of the most important reforms to the fund ’s work in its 30 years since the supervision process was conceived . this june , the imf ’s executive board did just that , reaching a broad consensus on updating surveillance to make the focus and effective .
first , a debt conference is needed , with the creditors of southern european governments and banks forging a part of that debt . creditors relinquishing part of their claims must include public entities , first and foremost the ecb , which have now mostly replaced the country ’s private lenders . second , eurozone members , whose path to restoring competitiveness through pricing and wage haircuts , are too long and grueling , and whose societies risk of being rent-seeking by the necessary imposition of austerity , need to exit the monetary union temporarily . the pain of exiting should be cushioned by communal financial help , which would not be necessary for long , because a devaluation of the new currency would quickly restore competitiveness . four measures aimed at achieving this are needed .
selective use of justice has badly damaged yanukovych ’s administration . finally , the eu should insist that ukrainian authorities suspend all of the politically motivated criminal cases and release those incarcerated for political crimes . this is important , because ukraine has fulfilled only in part the imf deals it signed in 1994 , 2008 , and 2010 . steps in that direction would greatly improve the ukrainian government ’s relations with the eu and the us . these three steps would not resolve all of the difficulties in ukraine ’s relations with the eu .
arguing that his efforts to improve relations with russia are in america ’s national interest , trump , shortly after his summit invited putin to visit the white house in the near future . but trump ’s enthusiasm ( and desire to defy his critics ) is no substitute for genuine openness to mutually beneficial cooperation , like that seen in 1959 , when dwight eisenhower invited nikita khrushchev to visit the us , and new york city in 1986 , when mikhail gorbachev and ronald reagan met in reykjavík . putin has just reciprocated with the invitation of trump to come with the kremlin . instead , trump ’s actions merely look like more kowtowing , raising other us leaders ’ hackles . for many members of the american security establishment , putin ’s apparent clout over trump poses an existential threat to american democracy , much as the soviet union did at the height of the cold war .
washington , dc – later this month , european citizens will head to the polls to elect the european parliament ’s 76,000 members to represent $ 507 million . nonetheless , the participation rate over the past decade is comparable to the average turnout in american congressional elections . given the european parliament ’s perceived remoteness and widespread frustration with the european union ’s bureaucracy , the level of participation and movement toward transnational politics is remarkable . the manner in which the us election campaign has unfolded marks a small but significant step in stemming the emergence of the first supranational political space in europe in – indeed , world – history . to be sure , the european parliament elections were bringing smaller shares to the polls : 43 % in 2009 , compared to almost 60 % in 1978-1994 .
nevertheless , the bomb was not encased in metal , and the terrorist was the only person killed . to an outsider , the episode looks like a colossal security failure , as when the rbi ’s chief personally greeted one of bin laden ’s lieutenants at the garden party . but it is only this very personalized form of politics embraced by the saudi royals with defecting al-qaeda ’s members . highly personalized politics is forming part of what might be called saudi arabia ’s theater of state , which keeps royals firmly in power . indeed , this policy , even with its risks , partly explains al-qaeda ’s defeat in saudi arabia .
it is said of prime minister levi eshkol that he was referring to seven languages , all in fifa . perhaps eban was too urbane , too much of the scholar and gentleman to make it – in disraeli ’s phrase – to the summit of the pole of greasy . so far , what has appealed to the outside world is not always the asset in the rough and tumble of israeli politics . together with golda meir and moshe dayan , he was forced to abandon government in the run-up to the yom kippur war . it could be said that he was speaking ten languages , all of which with the oxford/cambridge accent .
northern europeans with money to invest were willing to lend on extraordinarily easy terms to those in the south who wanted to spend , and ample pre-2007 spending made employers willing to raise wages rapidly . as a result , southern europe adopted an economic configuration where its wage , price , and productivity levels made sense only so long as it had spent € 13 ( $ 13 for every € 12 ) that it earned , with northern europeans financing the missing euro . but whether europe as a whole avoids lost decades of economic growth still seems to be changing in the balance , much depends on whether southern european governments can quickly restore competitiveness . the process , by which southern europe became uncompetitive initially , was driven by market price signals – by the incentives those signals created for entrepreneurs and the way business entrepreneurs ’ individually rational responses played out in macroeconomic terms . northern europeans , meanwhile , adopted wage and productivity levels that made sense only as long as they spent less than one euro for every euro that it earned .
after all , america ’s competition between the us and china extends far beyond trade . though the us maintains its military , technological , financial , and soft-power supremacy , china has been steadily catching up , leading to bipartisan support in the us for a more confrontational approach . a global economic downturn is the last thing the world needs at a time when it is already beset by risks , including possible no-deal brexit and populist gains in the european parliament election in may . after all , america ’s competition with china extends far beyond trade . last october , us vice president mike pence bluntly accused china of technology-theft , predatory economic expansion , and us military aggression in the us .
they can be answered and periodically revised only through an iterative process of strategic interaction between public agencies and private firms . they can be answered and periodically revised , only through an iterative process of strategic interaction between public agencies and private firms . a common theme that emerges from studies of so-called place-based policies , such as regionally targeted employment subsidies and infrastructure investment , is the heavy nature of success . competitions among states and localities to attract large employers with tax and other subsidies work especially badly . recent high-profile deals in foxconn and amazon , in wisconsin and new york , have exploded .
shanghai – after decades of spectacular expansion , china faces the difficult task of managing a soft economic landing . it has the advantage that other countries in today ’s troubled global economy lack : a clear path forward . if it does , its annual gdp could be an estimated $ 5 trillion larger by 2030 than probably if policymakers continue to pursue investment-led growth . naysayers abound , but never mind them . if china implements a sustained , comprehensive effort to boost productivity , it could address its growth challenges , reduce the risks of a financial crisis , and complete its shift toward a consumption-driven , high-income economies with a large and affluent middle class .
london – as governments across western europe started bailing out the banks and their depositors , east europeans watched nervously , uncertain about what a global financial storm would mean for them . now that the storm has hit , europe ’s fragile bonds are now being tested . two countries – hungary and ukraine , to cite large-scale support packages . several more could do so over the next month , unless frozen credit markets have a thaw . if things continue until late in the year that can not be ruled out , many more countries could experience severe banking crises .
but the big question for health professionals is whether the quantity or the quality of foods is to blame . this provides an important distinction , because quantity is determined by users , while the quality is determined by the industry . in fact , some health experts argue that the specific components of processed foods are simply as addictive as cocaine and heroin . for example , sugar is consistently a ingredient with a top score on a yale food addiction scale , which measures people ’s crawl . the processed food industry reports that “ you need sugar to live . ”
last year alone , the global polio eradication initiative , delivered nearly two billion doses of the polio vaccine to 575 million children in 94 countries , the world health organization . a closely coordinated effort by amongst the private and public-sector partners to deliver the oral polio vaccine to every child under the age of five was the key to success . in each country , partner institutions including the un health minister , the world health organization , unicef , other un agencies , service groups like rotary international , representatives from donor governments , the private sector , and non-governmental organizations , jointly , and carefully planned each immunization campaign . every detail , from the number of bicycles and boats needed to deliver vaccines to otherwise inaccessible areas , to the refrigerators and cool boxes needed to keep the vaccine potent , even the batteries essential to power it . globally , international donors and un agencies worked closely with national governments , gathering the precise needs of polio immunization campaigns , which target the reach of hundreds of millions of children .
still , one wonders whether the eu is currently willing to putting up a united front . with the bloc splintering distinct political tribes , it is becoming easier for other powers to pursue a divide-and-conquer strategy . this has long been russia ’s strategy and is embraced by china and the us . in 2016 , for example , its southern and eastern eu member states , which rely on chinese investment , managed a joint eu declaration on china ’s territorial encroachments on the south china sea . in an increasingly deal-based world , a new g6 might offer the defense of a rules-based system .
corruption is one of africa ’s endemic problems , especially its own . but the winds of globalization were intended to blow back the cobwebs of bribery and inefficiency . indeed , it is the key issue in nigeria ’s approaching presidential election , given president obasanjo ’s lofty but failed struggle to curb it . evict the state from direct economic activity , curb its discretionary powers , and improve both economic efficiency and governance . harvard political scientist devesh kapur suggests why this is not happening .
florence – europeans , eager to revive the continent ’s unification process , have recently turned their attention to the establishment of the united states . yet many still reject the american precedent on the grounds that today ’s problems are too dissimilar from those confronted then . still others , who accept that the federalist principles might do well to address the problems of europe ’s common market , despair that the “ europeans ” ” ” who might harbor this new political architecture remains absent . in fact , the creation of the american constitution and the birth of the american people offer reasons to hope that at least some of the most difficult issues facing europe can one day resolve . but there are striking parallels between america ’s foundational years and europe ’s ongoing political and economic crisis .
moscow – ongoing street protests in hong kong and moscow have no doubt spooked the authoritarian duo of chinese president xi jinping and russian president vladimir putin . yet , rather than holding a dialogue with the people , putin has been demonstrating against his control , even preening to photo opportunities in tight leather outfits to his favorite motorcycle exam gang . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere around the world . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . moscow has had no doubt spooked by the authoritarian duo of chinese president xi jinping and russian president vladimir putin .
the following year , the persian emperor , yazdegerd iii , had fled to the border province of khorasan and arabization of persia , with persians embracing arab names and translating into islam . the mass conversion to islam among persians was a first step toward establishing the first caliphate , a political-religious state that is featuring all muslims of the lands . at different times in its history , the caliphates have extended in asia , africa , and parts of europe . by 651 , almost all of the main urban centers in persia were under arab control , adding momentum to the process . efforts by various forces seeking to control or restore the caliphate are a recurrent theme , throughout islam ’s history .
the russian government ’s reluctance to fight corruption and strengthen the country ’s legal institutions reflects a perverse , yet stable , political equilibrium . russia ’s political elite understands that the economy is capable of a 5-6 % annual growth rate . in 2010 , tsyvinski and i foresaw a “ 70-80 scenario ” in russia in the coming years : because oil prices , which had plummeted to $ 40 per barrel , they recovered and surpassed $ 70-80 - a barrel , russia would return to the stagflation of the 1970 ’s and 1980 ’s , respectively . sure enough , gdp growth from 2010 to 2012 – though averaging a respectable 4 % – turned out to have been driven by the post-crisis recovery and another spike in oil prices to $ 100/barrel . all of these short-term factors have now been depleted , and a brezhnev-like period of economic stagnation has begun .
others , including mainstream economists like adair turner , the former chairman of the uk financial-services authority , have called for “ helicopter drops ” : direct cash transfers to consumers through central-bank-financed fiscal deficits . following this logic , in the uk , the labour party has proposed a “ people ’s qe ” , ” whereby the central bank would print money to finance outright fiscal transfers to households , rather than bankers and investors . still , others , such as former fed vice chair stanley fischer and his colleagues at blackrock , have proposed a “ standing emergency fiscal establishment ” that would enable the central bank to fund large fiscal deficits in the event of a deep recession . despite differences in terminology , all of these suggestions are variants of the same idea : large fiscal deficits monetized by central bank money should be put on hold to stimulate aggregate demand in the event of another slump . left-wing proponents of so-called “ modern monetary theory ” argue that larger permanent fiscal deficits are sustainable when monetized during periods of economic slack because expectations of runaway inflation are
most developing countries , i know of course , spend too little money devising good projects for good projects : these have the advantage of too much money , for example . when the private sector does , transforming ideas into bankable projects are often very difficult , because many difficult-to-coordinate public-sector decisions or actions go hand in hand . so , let ’s suppose that there is a toll road project to be approved , the concession contract is poised , and the companies are searching for it . there are plenty of uncertainties in both phases , but especially over the epc , which may last 3-7 years , depending on the project . the bidders need blueprints for two phases : engineering , procurement and construction ( epc ) , and longer phases of operation when toll revenues are collected to recover incurred costs and expected returns .
beyond that , there is a clear business rationale for prioritizing green-finance.investors and ratings agencies increasingly scrutinizing investment portfolios for potential “ stranded assets , ” ” such as oil and gas projects that will become obsolete as more renewable-energy technologies become commercially viable . many existing fossil-fuel projects already have shorter lives spans than was previously expected , and financial portfolios , which rely heavily on such assets , are increasingly threatening currency devaluations . but to get and keep all governments on board , a low-carbon transition needs to be inclusive . with some governments abandoning previous emissions-reduction pledges , one might think that the global push for action on climate change is losing steam . but we should not underestimate the power of financial pressure to force effect change ; nor can we ignore the determination of local governments and the private sector to act where national governments have n’t .
a less agressive anti-europe anism comes from a tendency that struggles over old values like privilege and virtue . defend `` family values '' , whatever that which means . here , however , people who have been active in the former `` solidarity '' movement -- to them a community , rather than an individual , a movement for public rather than private freedom -- form the new euro-antagonistic bloc . in practice such a movement also motivated little more than a fear of change . recently , a group of members of parliament ( quite a large one -- 30 deputies ` ) left its majority post-solidarity party and formed a new " polish family , " with the slogan that the ruling coalition organizes in `` operations in brussels . '' for whatever reason , defend `` family values '' , whatever that means .
an alternative hypothesis that seems to fit the facts recently emerged from the paul woolley center for studying dysfunctionality in capital markets at the london school of economics . researchers there argue that in fragile , speculative industries ( and finance has certainly fallen in that category in recent years ) , it is hard for investors to track those who manage their money . they may see short-term returns , but they do not fully understand the returns that are generated . managers can demand higher and higher returns in the upturn as well . that may be part of the story , but competition for talents and customers seems intense between investment banks and others , yet collectively these have collectively been extravagantly rewarded at the expense of those customers .
to be sure , crime , terrorism , conflict , and political fragility severe enough to cause a overall breakdown of the rule of law and order dramatically impede creativity and innovation . the united states is ranked consistently among the world ’s top ten countries for innovation , including insead ’s global innovation index . but , on the global peace index , it is ranked 88th out of 153 countries . conversely , bhutan is among the top 20 most peaceful nations , but does not even make it onto the indices ’ innovation . likewise , the united kingdom and the netherlands are rank , respectively , fifth , and sixth at an innovation index , but only 28th and 29th , on the peace index .
germany ’s christian democratic union ( cdu ) has been weakened , and the country ’s greens have grown stronger . but merkel still defends weber , and , in addition to macron and dutch prime minister mark rutte , most eu leaders are reluctant to confront the european parliament on the spitzenkandidaten issue . that may shorten the odds for margrethe vestager – who is not from the epp , but who is , in any sense , the liberal spitzenkandidat – while lengthening them for michel barnier , whom he is from the epp but not a spitzenkandidat . finally , the us election provides a check on german hegemony within the eu more broadly . if the council succeeds weber and his populist supporters , macron will claim it as a success .
on january 1 , 2007 , ban ki-moon , south korea ’s former foreign minister , will become united nations secretary-general following kofi annan ’s ten-tenure . annan has inspired the world with his diplomacy and un guidance on reducing poverty and human rights , but the war in iraq has divided the world , attracting attention and financial resources away from crisis regions and critical longer-term problems like climate change , disease control , sustainable energy , and access to water . with the recent elections in the united states and the rise of asia ’s global clout , there is an opportunity to pivot the global spotlight on the most critical challenges facing our planet . aside from the long-term challenges of poverty , the environment , nuclear proliferation , and un reform , the new secretary-general will inherit a long list of hotspots : iraq , iran , afghanistan , somalia , pakistan , lebanon , somalia , sierra leone , sudan , north korea , and elsewhere . the recent attempts to influence these countries ’ developments through threats and sanctions , together with times of war , have failed miserably .
an outfit called the global trade alert alert ( gta ) has taken center stage , raising alarm bells about what it calls the “ protectionist juggernaut . ” many complain that something similar , if somehow less grand in scope , is happening today . the gta ’s latest report identifies no fewer than 192 separate protectionist actions since november 2008 with china as their most frequent target . this number has been widely quoted for the us financial press . this number is why the disastrous free-for-all in us trade policy during the 1930s has been greatly aggravated by the great depression .
host countries could assume responsibility for administering benefits like unemployment insurance , sick pay , and pensions . and countries of origin could continue to post benefits unrelated to jobs , such as child allowances staying at home and service services for migrants too old or ill to work when they arrive . when people come to the country to earn higher wages , the distribution pie gets larger ; but if it comes to the social benefits , the pie gets smaller . given this , why not have a system in which host countries and countries of origin share the social-benefit costs of the migrants ? such a change would create a win-win situation for the eu , because it would reduce the destructive appeal of welfare magnetism and give british grounds to rethink their exit decisions with their heads held high .
no alternative – and certainly not the statusquo – will work . the price of the monetary union ’s survival , and therefore of the european project , is a more community : a banking union , a fiscal union , and a political union . it has become common knowledge in europe that the ongoing crisis will either destroy the eu or bring about a political union , and that , with no solidarity-based solution to existing debt and partial mutualization of new debt , the euro can not be saved . the price of the monetary union ’s survival , and that of the european project , is a more community : a banking union , a fiscal union , and a political union . those who oppose this , fearing common accountability , transfers from rich to poor , and a loss of national sovereignty will have to accept europe ’s re-nationalization and hence its exit from the world stage .
the eu is not deprived of instruments , the so-called “ structural funds ” that fund investment in poorer regions , but lacks the strategy to exploit it . for investors , the reform process may seem impossibly long and hesitant to follow . so , the outcome of months of discussion may be better characterized as “ emu 1.7.3 ” than “ emu 2.0 . ” for the sake of investors , the reform process might seem impossibly long and hesitant . but , by the standards of international negotiations and european governance , it has been exceptionally fast .
other countries might find sweden ’s system worth studying closely . its schools are financed by local communities and work within the framework of a national curriculum designed by parliament and government . though educational possibilities and structures have progressively been diversified , the great shortcoming of most european educational systems remains : students have too few choices , and teachers if they want to stay in their profession must adhere to severely compartmentalized pedagogy . as with corporate monopolies , consumers ( students ) are often viewed as homogeneous class , where all students can be educated on the basis of the same pedagogical approach . but schools must be allowed to fulfill individual children ’s needs and capacities in ways that make learning the stimulating adventure .
from that moment on , they are in and out of the prison system , with little chance of ever getting a legal job that can enable them to escape poverty . their children grow up free of their parent at home , and without hope and encouragement . what is mad about this means that the american miss an obvious point , and that has already been missed for more than 40 years . to break the poverty cycle , the country needs an investment in its children ’s future , rather than in the incarceration of 2.3 million people each year , many for nonviolent crimes that are symptoms of poverty . the children of drug users often become drug users themselves ; they , too , are fed up with jail or suffer violence or premature death .
the comparison between the two approaches is clear . colombia ’s policymakers were hopeful that if they adopted best-practice legislation and regulation , somebody came in . and , if they did not , they could still bask in the international accolades that they receive from foreign entities . in this services-export-led growth strategy , skill shortages did not become a major problem , owing to a relatively open-ended immigration policy that enabled the country to take advantage of the talent that colombia , among other countries , has proved unable to keep . the non-residential construction boom that this created helped not only to absorb the labor-intensive , delinking of rural areas , but also achieve a remarkable reduction in inequality .
moreover , there is now massive re-leveraging of the us public sector in advanced economies , with massive budget deficits and public-debt accumulation driven by automatic stabilizers , countercyclical keynesian fiscal stimulus , and an egregious cost of socializing the financial-system losses . at best , the us faces a protracted period of anemic growth , below-trend growth in the advanced economies like deleveraging by households , financial institutions , and governments are starting to feed through to consumption and investment . at the global level , countries that spent too much – the united states , the united kingdom , spain , greece , and elsewhere – now need to deleverage and come with spending , consuming and importing less . but over-saving countries – china , emerging asia , germany , and japan – are not spending more to compensate for a shortfall of us spending by deleveraging countries . restoring global aggregate demand will therefore be weak , pushing global growth far lower .
the current crisis , the fall of wall street , aims to neo-liberalism what the fall of the berlin wall in 1989 was to communism . indeed , the global dimension of the crisis surprisingly has a positive side as well . so far , a major part of the problem has been countries ’ unwillingness to cooperate . previous demands for stricter regulation have come to nothing , owing to the opposition of financial-sector opposition . now , the international community is being charged with thinking about how to reform the financial sector and minimize the risk of a similar disaster in the future .
in the advocating the disestablishment of both religious and secular orthodoxies , i do not wish to trivialize the importance of their continuing contest over the meaning of life . it is because of the infinite importance of this great debate that the state should strive to be neutral . unlike militant liberalism in the context of the french tradition , this “ neutralist ” liberal philosophy strives to prevent either side from participating in the ongoing culture war against the nation ’s coercive power as a weapon in the struggle for men ’s souls . after all , by taking sides in this conversation , the liberal state can not avoid potentially denigrate the ultimate convictions of many of its dissenting citizenry . after all , by taking sides in this conversation , the liberal state ostentatiously takes sides , it can not avoid potentially even denigrating the ultimate convictions of many of its dissenting citizens .
new york – twenty years after the fall of the berlin wall and the collapse of communism , the world faces yet another stark choice between two fundamentally different forms of organization : international capitalism and state capitalism . the former , represented by the united states , has broken down , and the latter , represented by china , is on the rise . following the path of least resistance , it will drive the international financial system ’s gradual disintegration . while international cooperation on regulatory reform will be difficult to achieve on piecemeal basis , it can be attainable in the grand bargain re-arranges the entire center of the financial order . for them , a new multilateral system , built on sounder principles , must be redesigned .
mario monti , the european union ’s commissioner for competitive policies , is often in the spotlight , usually to popular acclaim . over the years , he has won important victories limiting state aid to business , one of europe ’s most pernicious economic maladies . today , however , the benefits derived from his achievements are endangered , owing to a series of stunning courtroom defeats . within a matter of mere weeks , the european court of justice ( to which private parties may appeal to appeal to the present commission ) voided three of monti ’s decisions are rejecting corporate mergers . with the competition case against software giant microsoft seemingly in the offing , commissioner monti will need to rediscover his footing fast .
making matters worse , these types of tragedies have been avoidable ; we have known that these crises have been coming to a close . droughts and hunger are slow-motion calamities that , with adequate planning and ample resources , can befall . but time and time again , humanitarian relief in africa has come short-lived , as it did in somalia in 2011 and 2012 ; in niger in 2005 ; and in ethiopia during the 1980s . then , as it is now , food insecurity was predicted long before the initial hunger pangs got us . so , too , were many of their proud and dignified people stripped from their livelihoods , becoming forced to rely on just one tiny food a day or nothing at all .
here the us needs europeans ’ help , and it makes no sense to call this global uni-polar , either . here the us needs europeans ’ help , and it makes no sense to call this global uni-polar , either . the bottom chessboard includes transnational relations that cross borders beyond us governments ’ control – everything from drugs to infectious diseases to climate change to supranational terrorism . on this bottom board there is an important degree of close civilian cooperation , one that affects the country ’s attractiveness or soft power . no government can control outcomes without the cooperation of others .
translation : an orderly resolution of global megabanks is an illusion . making matters worse , they have both the motive and the opportunity to grow even bigger . as long as the us allows cross-border banks at or near their current level , our political leaders will be unable to tolerate the failure of their governments . and , because these large financial institutions are under any meaningful definition “ too big to fail , ” they can borrow more cheaply than would otherwise be the case . this form of government support amounts to a large implicit subsidy on big banks .
and , by raising the cost of extracting fossil fuels , it would contribute to the eventual phase-out of an sector without a place in a climate-safe world . thankfully , the world will not need to wait for moral suasion to carry the day . the dutch group urgenda and almost 900 co-claimants have successfully sued the dutch government , forcing it to enact stronger climate policies . fossil-fuel companies and governments , indeed , are already facing intensifying legal pressure . typhoon survivors in the philippines have delivered a complaint to the country ’s human rights commission , calling the investigation into large fossil-fuel companies the responsibility to causing climate change .
a few years ago , for example , the chip-maker national semiconductor managed a complicated delivery system that connects its three factories and three subcontractors in asia to its global customer network . it chose to out-source that operation to federal express , which uses a sophisticated , interlocking system for management of global startups and sales . as a result , the us national semiconductor sees its delivery cycle to buyers cut after four weeks of age to one week , distributing cost cutting from 2.9 % of sales to 1.2 % sales . several steps are needed to support the massive increase in internet use in these other localities : * liberalization of telecoms , including the entry of new private service providers ( * ) – including the entry of new private service providers – into costs reduction and diffusion advantage .
as a result , the possibility of so-called “ helicopter money ” is becoming increasingly discussed . when governments run bigger fiscal deficits and fund this not with interest-bearing debt but with central-bank money , nominal demand will no doubt increase , producing some mix of higher inflation and greater real output . it is then argued ( sometimes even the same people ) that monetary financing would not stimulate demand , because people will fear a future “ inflation tax . ” but the discussion about it is riddled with confusions . it is often argued that re-imposing fiscal deficits would commit central banks to keep interest rates low forever , an approach that is bound to produce excessive inflation .
geneva – when lehman brothers collapsed ten years ago , it suddenly became unclear who was holding what to whom , who could keep paying for their debts and who would go down next . the implication was that interbank credit market had froze , wall street panicked , and companies all went under , not only in the united states but around the world . in hindsight , the complacency concerning the crisis ’s run-up to the crisis was obviously unjustly earned . and yet little has really changed in its aftermath – and still far by it . with policymakers struggling to respond to the crisis , economic pundits have been left wondering whether the “ great moderation ” of low business-cycle volatility since the 1980s turning into another great depression .
should the spd , which votes its coalition agreement in early december , block the new government ’s formation ( an unlikely development but not entirely out of the question ) , disputes over security and defense matters would not be the culprits . but , within a year or so , they have acquiesced that within a commission will offer different possibilities and models to protect the german parliament ’s right , while giving assurances to germany ’s european partners that the country would be a reliable contributor to troop deployments . aside from a few minor particulars , consensus prevails . for some , that is a cause for ambivalence . coalition partners disagree about how urgent the issue is to sort out . for some , that is a cause for ambivalence .
they typically argue that gm crops are unsafe , a view flatly rejected by the us scientific community over the past two decades . indeed , every new gm crop variety must meet rigorous health , ecological , and efficacy standards . badly needed biosafety legislation in nigeria and uganda has already been delayed . much of the problem lies with the small group of anti-gm activists who objects to technology on “ moral ” grounds . at the same time , the world health organization has acknowledged that “ zero net effects on human health were shown to be the result of the consumption of such foods . ”
the regulators ’ call to the isda for voluntary action will not amount to much if it is simply a request from the derivatives industry to act against its own financial interests . perhaps regulators will find that they need to require that the regulated hold the contract ’s desired provisions . that solution will still be incomplete , but not all derivatives traders are highly regulated financial institutions , and because many lenders would find ways to circumvent the contract and requirement . when coverage is incomplete , one can expect that they have been regulated to complain that they have been placed at a competitive disadvantage . regulators may well need a turn to bankruptcy laws to rectify the problem .
but even that was inadequate to britain ’s leaders , who tightened the law further in 1898 , made it even harsher than sedition terms in england . the result was section 124a of the penal code , under which any person using “ words , signs , or visible representation … to excite disaffection with the government ” might be charged with sedition and a potentially condemned to life imprisonment . sedition was thus explicitly intended as a instrument to terrorize indian nationalists ; indeed , mahatma gandhi was among his prominent victims , albeit far from his final . yet , in the words of a brazilian lieutenant governor of bengal , that “ “ sedition ” “ a sedition law suffices to a people ruled by a government of its own nationality and belief can be insufficient , or , in some respects , unsuited to a country under foreign rule . ” in other words , no free speech for the indians , let alone any one nation who has employed “ words , signs , ” or visible representation … to excite disaffection against the government ” might be charged with sedition and potentially condemned to life imprisonment .
seoul – china , already the world ’s largest exporter , manufacturer and international-reserve-asset holder , is poised to surpass the united states as the world ’s largest economy ( as measured by purchasing power parity ) this year . indeed , the country ’s days after deng xiaoping ’s injunction to “ hide brightness and cherish obscurity ” are long gone . after decades of participating actively in international economic institutions – including the g-20 , the international monetary fund , the world bank , and the world trade organization – china has begun to resemble a revisionist power seeking to forge a new world order . now , it is also using its growing clout to reshape global economic governance . last month , china and 20 other asian countries signed a memorandum of understanding to establish a new multilateral development bank , the asian infrastructure investment bank ( aiib ) .
reaching a global climate agreement promises not only to safeguard the environment , but also to cement europe , the role of leader in sustainability . new free-trade agreements give european economies access to major markets around the world . and eu enlargement , in particular , has boosted europe ’s security substantially . these are , by all reasonable standards , remarkable uk-led achievements . progress on the single market has helped to boost competitiveness .
a special report on semiconductors – essential to america ’s national security and economic competitiveness – for president barack obama ’s council of advisors on science and technology ( pcast ) provides some answer . the pcast report recommends that america adopt similar tactics , calibrating export controls , and inward investment limits , based on china ’s behavior . the european union , japan , south korea , and taiwan all have prominent roles in the global manufacturing supply chain for semiconductors , and some have already tightened security on a flow of semiconductor ip to china and on acquisitions of semiconductor companies by chinese investors . the report , written by a nonpartisan group of business and academic leaders ( i was a member ) , has proposed that the american working with its allies to enforce international law , push china to comply with its world trade organization obligations , and reinforce export controls and inward investment restrictions . proposed bipartisan legislation to expand the us foreign-policy committee ’s jurisdiction ( which reviews and acquisitions of domestic companies by foreign-owned entities ) to a broader array of investments , including chinese venture capital and private-equity investments in american startups , is consistent with this recommendation .
four decades ago , countries not only endured the immediate economic impact of opec ’s embargoes ; they leveraged the potential of the resulting oil shortages to spur innovation . our livelihoods , not to mention those of future generations , should not be placed hostage to our continued dependence on fossil fuels . business-led innovation and market-based solutions can drive a decisive global shift away from crippling fossil-fuel dependence on more efficient renewable-energy systems . swift and determined action to make buildings more energy-efficient , design automobiles , which will require little or no fossil fuels , and increased the share of renewable energy in us electricity supplies could ensure that the substantially hotter and less pleasant world of 2050 warns against does not materialize . a rocky mountain institute of reinventing fire analysis reveals that such a future is possible , offering market-driven strategies for powering a u.s. economy that is 158 % larger in 2050 , with no dependency on oil , coal , or nuclear energy .
on the same day , hamas launched three potent iranian-designed rockets from gaza at israel ’s dimona reactor . luckily , two missed his target , and israel had managed to intercept the third . the captured uranium was no weapons-grade ; international inspectors removed all sensitive material from iraq following the 1991 gulf war ( thus being absent when the united states invaded in 2003 ) . but the anecdote represented a severe escalation of hostilities , and served as an important reminder of the vulnerability of nuclear reactors in warzones . but what international reaction , if any , might have begun if the caucasus had been highly digested ?
labor markets remain largely healthy , even in otherwise anemic economies like germany , and household consumption remains robust in most of the major economies . moreover , the september oil-price spike , which has stoked fears of another negative growth shock , has since receded . the us economy reflects this dichotomy . while the dollar appreciation has taken some pressure off non-us economies that depend on us exports or foreign capital , it has heightened the risk of an open-ended currency war . at the same time , not all indicators are looking grim .
he has inspired broad public enthusiasm for the quality of his products and his own personal charisma . ( others have now become “ business ” leaders , but only to steve has become someone known and admired the millions , including the romanian waiter at the british airways lounge where i sit now . ) i first met steve back in 1979 or 1980 , in ben rosen ’s personal-computer forum . for some reason , this was retained in a playboy resort in lake geneva ( never again ! ) . in the personal-computing business that moved from bulky apple ii to the sleek and smart iphone 4s ( announced the day before steve ’s death ) , steve was the only true showman of what is now one of the world ’s largest industries .
what accounts for the recent acceleration ? following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to america 's interests elsewhere around the world . cambridge – america ’s annual real gdp growth rate of 3.2 % for the first quarter of this year – is impressive , as was the forthcoming 3 % average growth in 2018 ( measured from the fourth quarter of 2017 to the fourth quarter of 2018 ) . from the end of the great recession – from 2011 to 2017 – america ’s economy grew at an annual rate of just 2.1 % per year on average .
the impact would most likely be greatest ( resulting in some 20 % trump members elected ) in systems that currently have no effective quota legislation . one can not be predicted with any accuracy about the increased quota percentages ’ impact on the tight-list systems that currently have effective quota legislation . but if these countries do replace their open lists with closed lists , the percentage of women elected should be , all else being a fair one , rising by about 10 % . in the top-ranked systems , the candidate lists should be zippered : male , female , male , female , ( or vice versa ) . in open-list systems , the candidate lists should be zippered : male , male , female , ( , or vice versa ) .
and , according to special counsel robert mueller ’s report , trump attempted to obstruct the investigation into his 2016 campaign ’s dealings with russia . trump has systematically defied the separation of powers at the heart of america ’s constitutional system . for example , frustrated that the us congress had denied him any funding it wanted for his phantasmagorical wall alongside mexico ’s border , he simply plucked the funds issued by congress for the department of defense . he has also flouted the constitutional prohibition of accepting emoluments – money , or personal contributions from foreign governments that do business , sometimes of an extravagant share , at his various hotels and golf clubs , and found other ways to monetize the presidency . moreover , trump has tried to steer government contracts toward favored companies , lest they be allowed to away from those he dislikes , such as amazon , whose founders , jeff bezos , also owns the washington post .
with its debt burden unsustainable , a few possible bargaining results can be negotiated . sometimes , lenders agree to exchange old bonds for new ones that have either lower face value or lower interest payments . as a result , few governments refuse to pay at all in any form or all of them . sometimes debt-service payments are re-scheduled and perhaps stretched over longer times , giving the debtor country time to recapture its ability to pay . when the government ’s debt is unsustainable , there are a few possible bargaining outcomes .
in places like vietnam , indonesia , and china – where a pandemic strain will most likely originate – expertise , coordination , discipline , and infrastructure is lacking . but such a strategy can be “ cost-effective ” only when it is feasible . a response in turkey – where as many as 50 potential cases have emerged in eastern ukraine – is instructive . in places like vietnam , indonesia , and china – where a pandemic strain will most likely originate – expertise , coordination , discipline , and infrastructure are missing . indeed , this ‘ tipping point ’ strategy ’ is highly cost-effective .
deng xiaoping ’s reforms ignited the most rapid economic improvements in human history , and with it the emergence of a large and growing middle class . it helps to finance other countries ’ trade and domestic investment deficits ( many of its recipients do have large budget deficits that decrease national saving below domestic investment ) . it remains the vital assembly center for the global supply chain over many manufactured goods such as computers and cell phones , thereby allowing the lower market prices of the world ’s consumer . that has made china a crucial trade partner for the united states , most european countries , with many other economies besides marketing at the center of intra-asian trade and supply-chain dynamics . moreover , china sits on about $ 3.3 trillion in foreign-exchange reserves , very much of it in dollars , but also in other major currencies , owing to its huge trade surplus in recent decades .
for ukraine ’s government , the angst is real . history offers little guidance about whether the warring countries will avoid damaging nuclear sites . with the possible exception of the balkan conflict in the 1990 ’s , wars have not fought against , or in countries with nuclear reactors . in the balkans , serbian military jets overflew slovenia ’s krško nuclear power plant in a threatening gesture early in the conflict , while radical serbian nationalists called for attacks to release the country ’s radioactive contents . even ukrainians born after 1986 to understand what a chernobyl-type catastrophe brought about by combat might look like .
over the past two years , or so , saudi arabia has made starkly apparent that it will not ease its market share easily , to anyone . in doing so , china has taken the kremlin ’s desperation , securing rock-bottom rates for russian energy resources . it has pursued a campaign to recapture its former position not only in crude , but also in us petroleum products , natural gas liquids , and petrochemicals . to that end , it has sustained a price war , underpinned by a push for stronger production gains , aimed at pushing off its weaker competitors . once opened , the doors on asia , however , russian companies seized the opportunity to enter downstream markets in india and indonesia , two countries that are critical to the saudis ’ own strategy .
what sort of economics would offer to this good life , after all , ? this is the kind of economy that i hope that china will develop . indeed , attaining , prospering , prospering , and flourishing all refer to experiential rewards rather than to money . what sort of economics would offer to this good life ? history suggests that it would be one of the more entrepreneurial people ( the attention of unnoticed opportunities and exercising their initiative in trying out some new things ) and innovative people ( imagining new things , create new concepts into commercial products and methods , and marketing them to potential ) . participants in such good economics would range from the grassroots of society to the most advantaged .
for those protesting the threat that automation poses to low-skill labor , a ready answer is to train people for better-paying jobs . as a recent article in the financial times points out , in two areas notoriously immune to productivity gains , education , and health care , technology is already reducing the demand for skilled labor . ( though perhaps this is n’t automation proper – the supermarket has just shifted some of the work of grocery onto a customer store . ) a wide range of jobs that we are now thinking about as skilled , secure , and irreducibly human may be the next casualties of technological change . but technological progress is now consuming more and more jobs than ever .
in august , gunmen stormed the home of the impoverished roma widow , maria balogh , shot her to death , injuring her a 13-year-old daughter . in february , the roma father and his five-year-old son were killed outside their home near budapest . in april , killers gunned down a roma factory worker as he was walking for a job . in april , the killers gunned down a roma factory worker as he was walking for a job . in april , the roma couple was killed in northeastern hungary .
with america ’s domestic workers already competing against robots and against low-wage workers abroad , disrupting imports will only create more jobs for robots . the information revolution has changed the world in ways that tariffs can not reverse . ultimately , trump should be protecting individual workers , not individual workplaces . a more rational approach would accept twenty-first-century realities . the twenty-first-century globalization processes are being hastened , unpredictable , and uncontrolled to count on static measures like tariffs .
but hitler ’s power over germany was far more absolute than ahmadinejad ’s about power over iran . he very probably means what he says about jews and israel , but is it some sort of latter-day hitler , and is today iran the equivalent of germany in the 1930s ? iran ’s recent municipal elections were humiliating for ahmadinejad and his followers . those elections would have been unthinkable in nazi germany . hitler came close to developing a nuclear bomb , but never had it , whereas iran was pretty well perhaps .
but this entails a rich reservoir of ideas rather than a unified approach . the second principle is subsidiarity , which holds that decision-making should be decentralized whenever possible . this ensures that local and regional preferences are viewed alongside the effects of eurozone-wide harmonization and economies of scale . the last principle is congruent , ensuring that decision-makers are accountable to the outcomes of their choices . this implies that as long as european electorates insist on retaining sovereignty over fiscal and economic policymaking , a shared liability will be a pipe dream .
george w. bush ’s economic policies were based on an extraordinarily reckless gamble reflecting a political coalition of two great powers : the super-rich and evangelical christians . the super-rich had one over-riding objective in joining bush ’s coalition : tax cuts that overwhelmingly benefited the richest households . the bush team believed that they would ultimately balance tax cuts for the rich with reductions in government spending , but that they never explained to the public . like these policies , global financial markets have an inherent bias , adding uncertainty to the global economy and little relief in sight because america is entering an era of prolonged political infighting and stalemate . evangelicals were brought about by so-called “ family values , ” ” ” ” meaning opposition to abortion and gay marriage , and the promises of active government support for religious activities – including the direct payment of religious groups on social services they provide for locally and internationally .
to bolster purchasing power and stimulate consumption , tax cuts on low – and medium-income households – are essential . public investment in infrastructure ( for example , the massive expansion of europe ’s railroad networks ) , along with climate protection and the environment , will be needed . some large eu countries are on the brink of recession . japan in the early 1990 ’s , waiting too long to act and missed the right opportunity to formulate countermeasures , which is why japan has so far failed to recover from its long stagnation . to bolster purchasing power and stimulate consumption , tax cuts for low – and middle-income households are crucial . of course , eu member states should determine the concrete form that such economic stabilization programs take for themselves .
moreover , according to the mckinsey global institute , investment opportunities stemming from infrastructure demand in africa will amount to at least $ 150 billion annually over the next decade . for europe , africa ’s future remains far from tapped . africa is also home to strategic natural resources for emerging low-carbon industries , and it is well positioned to play a crucial role in renewables . africa ’s value as a trade and investment partner is no news to europe . spending by households and businesses , estimated at $ 4 trillion in 2015 , is projected to reach $ 5.6 trillion by 2025 , reflecting a 3.5 % annual growth rate .
despite his years in office , medvedev remains more known for his own fancy ties and expensive watches than for his executive actions . a far more competent placeholder would have been sergei ivanov , a former kgb general . but ivanov is very much taller than putin , who at all pace achieves only the rank of the colonel . an apparent potential threat to putin ’s power , ivanov was passed over , and has since relegated to russia ’s role in the world ’s “ chief botanist , ” ” overseeing environmental and transportation activities . earlier this month , putin was reclaimed – or rather crowned in a spectacular fashion , with medvedev once again assuming the role of a pliant prime minister .
cambridge – government programs to support pensioners are in trouble in every country , owing to rising life expectancy and the rising retirement income of pensioners to taxpayers . the problem will be uniquely different in the united states , for america ’s much-vaunted social-security financing system creates a crisis when the fund is exhausted . the problem will be uniquely different in the years ahead , because america ’s investable demographic trend raises the fiscal burden of financing pensions and health care . though the options at that time will differ from the choices facing other governments , policies to escape america ’s crisis are pertinent to other countries confronting population aging . here is how the american system works : through law , a payroll tax is dedicated exclusively to financing retiree benefits .
lula remains popular with brazilians because his populist rhetoric shows real sympathy with the less affluent and with foreign investors , owing to the fact that he always tempered his radicalism to accommodate economic reality . indeed , while the scandals have rattled the government , lula was overwhelmingly reelected last year , as investors continue to pour money into the stock market . one reason for this is that house corruption scandals have given investors an opportunity to see brazilian freedom of speech and democracy in action . newspapers and tv commentators have been relentless in reporting on the scandals , helping to show brazilians and foreign investment alike that the political system is sufficiently stable in order to withstand open criticism . more recently , he has criticized bolivian president evo morales ’s threats to usurp foreign assets for his failure in that regard : “ radicalism is incompatible with the collective sense needed from someone who governs . ”
the two organizing of america ’s electoral observation missions that he had hailed , and whose terms he accepted , then refused to certify the outcome . true , morales resigned when the us military was telling it to , and after agreeing to protesters ’ demands for a fresh vote . but the existing constitutional provisions were subsequently followed . in fact , the two organizing organization of america ’s electoral observation missions that he had invited , and whose terms in which he had accepted , then refused to certify the outcome . in fact , the two organizing organization of america ’s electoral observation missions that he had invited , and whose terms he accepted , then refused to certify the outcome .
this is the sort of free , democratic spirit operating outside the convention that elections determine a government . it fueled enormously by social media ( itself a revolutionary phenomenon ) . and it moves very quickly in precipitating the crisis ; and it moves to do so . it is not always consistent , or rational , in the process . and they resent , to the point of mobilizing in the streets , any hint that a swiss clique is barring the way .
this left them free to build their own versions of national capitalism , as long as they obeyed a few simple international rules . financial globalization , in particular , played havoc with the old rules . countries were obliged by their commitment to abide by only limited trade liberalization , with ample exceptions for socially sensitive sectors ( agriculture , textiles , services ) . the current crisis demonstrates how far we have come from that model . when chinese-style capitalism met american-style capitalism with few safety valves , it gave way to an explosive mix .
at the same time , america ’s bargaining position in world politics should be strengthened . you and i may depend on one another , but if i depend less on you than you do on you , my bargaining power is increased . for decades , the us and saudi arabia had the balance of asymmetries in which the us depended on them as the swing producer of oil , and depended on us for ultimate military security . so , even with america ’s other interests in the middle east , such as israel or nuclear non-proliferation , the balance of energy imports and exports is unlikely to free america from us military expenditures – which some specialists estimate run a $ 50 billion per year – to guard the region ’s oil routes . if they do , power arises from asymmetries in interdependence .
indeed , european leaders ’ parochialism is a major reason why the eu is failing to maintain broad-based public support . european commission president jean-claude juncker , for example , openly frets about deep divisions among eu member states over brexit , and questions whether “ hungarians and poles ” wanted precisely the same things as france and the french . at the national level , his lack of political will led to the craven use of referenda , such as the french and dutch plebiscites on the treaty establishing a european constitution in 2005 , the netherlands ’ danone vote for the eu-ukraine association agreement last april , and the brexit referendum almost three months later . in each case , the voters said “ no ” – outcomes that can be blamed , especially in the uk , on national leaders ’ own habit of blaming eu for domestic problems . the absence of an historic vision among the current one of political leadership undermines the shared sense of purpose needed to compel eu citizens to feel part of the same community , regardless of their diverse national identity .
florence – british politics has always had something of an experimental laboratory for the industrialized world . in the 1970s , britain was where the preeminent postwar model of how to manage the economy collapsed . today , the equivalent collapse has been of the “ regulation-lite ” regime in which a party that styled itself as “ the new labour ” has embraced a powerful role for markets , particularly for a largely deregulated financial markets . in the 1960 ’s , keynesian policies delivered the illusion that everyone benefited , with high levels of employment and large pay growth . that model was based politically on creating consensus and economically on keynesian demand management .
palestine ’s religious landmarks are attracting a rising number of religious tourists from around the world every year . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime ; but it does not all-out war .
as french cities have burned , other countries have been deeply severe in judging france . us embassies have issued warnings to tourists and their citizens living in france ; tv news programs have shown hours of footage of burning cars . other countries ’ governments appear to have been trying to distance themselves from the problem , fearing the contagion that they know is likely to spread . mayors across europe , however , have reacted more moderately , feeling , and displaying solidarity with the plight of their french colleagues . they know that their cities are also vulnerable to urban violence , in addition to having pockets of social inequality , including marginalized and excluded young people .
and the rapid economic growth that china ’s leaders must sustain to lift vast numbers of people out of poverty in order to avoid a crisis of legitimacy – places a floor beneath global food , energy , and mineral prices . all else being equal , unless china ’s commodity intensity – defined as the amount of the commodity that is consumed to generate a unit of output – falls dramatically , its demand for commodities will be larger this year than it was just the last year . to be sure , intensity of usage has fallen for some commodities , like gold and nuclear energy ; but for others , like aluminum and coal , it has risen in less than $ 40 billion since 2000 , as has been the case with copper and oil declines that have slowed markedly or stalled at a high point . as long as china ’s commodity demand grows at a rate exceeding global supply , prices will continue to rise . meanwhile , the supply of most commodities is forecast to grow at an annual rate of no more than 2 % in real gdp .
severe shortages of life-saving drugs in venezuela are the result of government defaults on a $ 3.5 billion bill due to pharmaceutical imports . payment arrears on us food imports amount to $ 2.4 billion , leading to a heavy staple shortage . a similar situation prevails in the rest of the economy . in the automobile sector , a default exceeds $ 3 billion , leading to the collapse of transport services due to low spare parts . earlier this year , he was diagnosed with cancer and forced to launch the social-media campaign to locate the drugs that his treatment required .
likewise , while egypt is in the midst of a messy revolution and must give priority to internal change , it also plans to recapture a more visible and influential role within the palestinian national movement ( hamas ) and throughout the region as a whole . the “ middle empire ” of the middle east will no longer remain a sleeping giant . to be sure , turkey is less destabilized than its arab rivals and partners through a revolutionary process that does not pose a direct challenge to it . after all , turkey is already the country of a functioning democracy , and its government is in transition . will it have to get the bomb ?
if “ constitutionalized ” , they simply implant the idea that the constitution was an aspiration to support , rather than a set of enforceable legal rights . the desire to rein in or protect some forms of free-market human activity may be understandable , particularly in countries like poland , where the free market remains an unknown animal . but , in an environment where many social fields -- such as education , health , and welfare services -- need fast and radical change , unleashing the free market to do its work offer the only plausible avenue to change . state-owned health-care companies , sovereign health insurers , state-guaranteed retirement , etc. are not only deft and inefficient ; they are also contrary to the vision of political reform . these managed benefits have little to do with the justice supposedly wanted by their socialist promoters , but everything to do with rent-seeking and corruption .
indian art , classical music , and dance have had the same effect . a senegalese friend told me of his illiterate mother taking a bus to dakar every month to watch a bollywood film – she fails to comprehend the hindi dialogue and can not read french subtitles ; yet she can still catch up the spirit of movies and comprehend the story , and people like her look at india with the stars in their sights . so , too , is the work of indian fashion designers , now striding across the world ’s runways . bollywood ’s film delivering its glitzy entertainment far beyond the indian diaspora in the united states and the united kingdom offer another telling example . an indian diplomat in damascus some years ago told me that the only publicly displayed portraits as large as former vice president hafez al-assad was of the bollywood superstar amitabh bachchan .
new delhi – barack obama , america ’s sixth american president , to visit india since assuming his independence , comes to an effort at an effort time , both to the united states and to india . for india , the issues on obama ’s agenda for obama ’s visit are stupendous and complex , and the opportunities for resolving them are exceedingly limited . bilateral economic , trade , and currency disagreements may not be as bitter as they are between america and china , but they are thorny , and lack of resolution makes them more intractable . those concerning security in afghanistan and pakistan are as treasonous as they were in the past . some of obama ’s closest advisers have just resigned , opening the awkward gap in the country ’s national security and economy – the focus of his meetings with india ’s government .
the combination of bad politics and economics in one country can easily produce contagion as rising migration spreads on political stress and instability across countries . this can invite geopolitical interference , which quickly deteriorated to a lose-lose scenario , like that already evident in water-stressed and conflict-affected countries , where governments are fragile or failing . according to the un high commission for refugees , more than 65 million refugees in the last year were killed , compared to just 1.6 million in 1960 . moreover , knowledge-intensive technology has a winner-take-all network whereby hubs seize access to knowledge and power , leaving less-privileged groups , classrooms , industries , and regions struggling to compete . through social media , the resulting discontent now spreads faster than ever , leading to destructive politics .
yet such a process is illegal under the spanish constitution in 1978 . that constitution has marked the country ’s passage from dictatorship to democracy , and provides the framework for spain ’s rule-of-law system . many cited former british prime minister david cameron ’s decision to allow a independence referendum in 2014 . and , because it is explicitly states , it is “ based on the indissoluble unity of the spanish nation ” – ” with sovereignty belonging to the spanish people . in short , spain is one nation , indivisible . in short , spain is one nation , indivisible .
geneva – the world needs to stop looking backwards . since the 2008 financial crisis , the us has wasted far too much energy in attempting to turn back on the days of fast economic expansion . the flawed premise that the post-crisis world ’s challenges have only temporary underpinned policies that yielded only lackluster recoveries while failing to address core problems like high unemployment and rising inequality . it is time to adopt a new framework for realistic solutions that promote shared prosperity within today ’s global economy . the post-crisis era is over , with the “ post-post-crisis world ” in the us .
obama ’s regrettable retreat from support for the doha round is the result of many factors and fallacies . us president barack obama is captive to countries like chile , who are buying the spurious narrative that trade with poor countries increases america ’s ranks by driving down wages . these were highlighted in a “ open letter to obama ” that i organized and released , over signatures almost 50 of today of ’s most influential trade experts worldwide worldwide urging a presidential shift in policy toward doha . indeed , it is notable that , while obama ’s state of the union address in june 2010 at least quoted doha , his address , in january 2011 , did n’t . obama has confined himself to promoting pending bilateral deals with colombia and other emerging-market countries .
these new worries are raising alarm bells in china . to be sure , some people even predict an double-dip recession . but this is no easy task , particularly in the short run . the diversification away from dollar assets is the advice of the day . if that happens , the chance of an actual american default would be far greater than it is today .
berkeley – investors worldwide are increasingly looking for investment opportunities that promise to bring environmental and social benefits alongside market rates to pay for returns . last year , one out of every $ 2 of assets under professional management in the united states – a combined total of $ 6.6 trillion – was allocated to some form of sustainable investment , particularly government equities . one signatory , calpers , one of the world ’s largest institutional investors , has gone a step further : it will require that all of its investment managers identify and integrate esg factors into their decisions – a bold move that could transform capital markets . if this trend continues , with environmental or social goals enhancing investment ’s value , it will reinforce a commitment to sustainability , which is already gaining momentum among companies worldwide . some 1,260 firms , managing $ 45 trillion worth of assets , are signatories to the united nations ’ “ principles for responsible investment ” – ” that recognizes the environmental , social , and governance ( esg ) factors – and thus the long-term health and stability of corporations and markets , as critical to investors .
in international politics , perceptions matter , sometimes even more important than reality . the perception today is that america ’s unipolar moment has come to an end ; europe has been on the decline ; and a new set of powers is rising , bringing its own unique worldviews to global affairs . more diverse perspectives could enrich multilateral processes and generate more comprehensive solutions to global problems . in a sense , this might seem like a good thing . but this multipolar dynamic also portends instability , not only .
in britain and some of the european countries , animal welfare became politically salient and pressure for parliamentary representatives mounted . the european union established the national scientific committee to investigate animal-welfare issues on farm farms , and the committee recommended banning battery cage , together with some additional forms of close confinement of pigs and calves . some supermarket chains even stopped carry eggs from battery hens . to its credit , the british egg industry accepted the situation , and developed new and less harsh methods for keeping hens . with the ban on the eu ’s battery cages ultimately adopted in 1999 , but to ensure that the producers would have plenty of time to phase out the equipment in which they invested , its implementation stalled until january 1 , 2012 .
finally , the same accounts could serve as vehicles for public policy . this might sound utopian ; in a sense , it is . more broadly , instead of assisting people only when social risks materialize , public policy might favor individual people throughout their lives , by adopting a more efficient bespoke approach that fits businesspeople ’ needs better than those of coartailored schemes . yet , at a time when each digital service has become more and more personalized , why should social policy remain confined to the twentieth century ’s philosophy and solutions ? an early school-leavers , for example , might occupy points for later use in professional training .
yet corruption presents the single largest barrier to growth and development in many countries , primarily because it diffuses resources from the poor . indeed , outspokenness was the hallmark of wolfensohn ’s tenure . numerous government minister , bank officer , and ngo representative have had his blunt criticism , as have his effusive praise . the world bank has insisted that corruption be perceived as a form of cancer , and that fighting it is being made synonymous with fighting poverty . it used to do that even mentioning corruption in certain official circles was seen as taboo .
indeed , the modest measures implemented in response to a changing distribution of global power have simply been confined to the economic sphere , with the hard core of international relations – peace and security – remaining the exclusive preserve of a few countries . china is not on the same page as the other brics countries when it comes to global institutional reform . its formation , for example , has been an improvisation designed to defer genuine financial-sector reform . it is a revisionist power concerning the global financial architecture , seeking an overhaul of the bretton woods system . but it is a status quo power with respect to the un system , and steadfastness opposes the enlargement of the security council ’s permanent membership .
intergenerational mobility , for example , is a key sign of the equality of opportunity . it can lead to gridlock , conflict , or poor policy choices , for example . whether it will depend heavily on whether important instruments that foster equality of opportunity , principally education and health care , have been highly accessible . the evidence supports the view that the systematic exclusion of subgroups on any arbitrary basis ( such as ethnicity , race , or religion ) is particularly damaging in this respect . it can lead to gridlock , conflict , or poor policy choices .
of the roughly 500 crowdfunding platforms that now exist , several specifically target clean technologies . the proliferation of information technology and social media means that it is easier than ever to tap into a large pool of finance , not to mention the connections and expertise that it offers from small-scale investors . other , increasingly prominent trends – such as collaborative smart consumption , pay per usage , and share sharing , and leasing models – could offer similarly powerful impetus to those efforts . last may , eureeca.com took the crowdfunding concept further than ever , creating the first-ever truly global crowd-investing marketplace that offers equity in funded firms . if used wisely , such platforms could take the slack created by governments ’ fiscal constraints to ease the entrepreneurial innovations needed to build the blue economy .
bangladesh knows wartime cholera all too well . in 1971 , fighting broke off when bangladesh , then notorious for east pakistan , announced its independence from pakistan . in the ensuing conflict , refugees poured across the border into neighboring india into crowded camps , creating conditions that had inevitably evoked a cholera outbreak . as many lay dying , a pioneering doctor named dilip mahalanabis was taking a chance in a dire situation . the standard of care in this age was poor , and a dearth of intravenous drips meant that rehydration solutions could not be administered universally .
madrid – april 22 , 2017 , international earth day marks one year since signing the paris climate agreement , which entered into force last november , and now has 195 signatories . that landmark multilateral treaty still represents the single most important step forward to date in the global fight against climate change . but its first anniversary has been stirred by us president donald trump ’s energy policies . the paris agreement ’s primary objective now is to prevent average world temperatures from rising more than 2º c above pre-industrial levels by 2100 . in 2016 , the top year on record , global temperatures were 0.9 º c above the twentieth-century average .
the atheistic nature of today ’s ’s civilization ( ours is the first atheistic civilization in humankind ’s history and also the first civilization to embraces the planet ) coincides deeply , i suspect , with the hyper-trophic persecution of individual interests and individual responsibilities combined with a crisis of global responsibilities . but how to restore in human mind a shared attitude toward what is above us if people across the globe had a different image of that above all , if people everywhere feel the need to emphasize their “ otherness ” ? is there any sense of seeking to turn to the human mind to the heavens , when such a turn would merely aggravate conflicts on earth among adherents of our various deities ? even more succinctly , today ’s crisis of responsibility and accountability for the world as a whole and for its future holds the logical implication of a modern concept as controlled by scientifically identifiable laws , formulated for god-aware – what purpose is , a concept that is , no longer open to question or seek the deeper meaning of the existence and renounces of every and renounces of all metaphysics ? could the fact that humanity think only within the boundaries of what lies in its vision and is incapable of remembering what lies beyond but as a consequence of the losses of metaphysical certitude , of god ’s losses ?
he has thrown down the gauntlet across the world ’s major economies : tell us when you will phase out coal , end harmful fossil-fuel subsidies , and shift taxation from income to pollution . those are the decisions that will drivethe transformation that the world needs . at its heart of this transformation is the energy transition , which , though currently underway , is lagging , or stalled in many parts of the world . major reform of how the transition is financed also urgently needs . a more ambitious effort by energy providers and major ends users is critical , because it expands affordable and reliable clean-energy services to all who need it .
new haven – central bankers around the world have not been able to see the current financial crisis come before its onset in 2007 . and yet , while these central banks have failed in the us even before the crisis , they should still have a leading role in preventing the next crisis from spiraling out of control . macro-prudential regulators ( government officials that focus not on the soundness of individual financial institutions , but rather on the stability of the entire financial system ) are sorely needed , and central bankers have been the logical ground to fill that role . martin čihák of the international monetary fund reported in july 2007 that , from the 47 central banks that found to publish financial stability reports ( glass-steagall ) , “ virtually all ” ” had given “ a positive total assessment of their domestic financial system ” in his recently published report , fixing the financial system . that is the conclusion , perhaps counter-intuitive , that the fed ’s squam lake group [ haddp:/squamlakegroup.greg/ ] – a think tank of 15 academic finance economists to whom i belong – reached in our recently published report , fixing the financial system .
while vowing during the presidential campaign to end daca during the presidential campaign , he also acknowledged the moral case for maintaining it , saying that he faced a “ very hard ” choice . and , even after his repeal was reported , he declared that he wanted to “ resolve the daca issue with heart and compassion . ” the sad reality is that , in making that choice , the president has opted to turn away from the classic american vision engraved on the pedestal of the sculpture of liberty in new york harbor , expressed in emma lazarus ’s poem to begin , “ giving me your tired , your poor , your huddled masses yearning to breathe free . ” that credo benefited tens of millions of newcomers and immeasurably enhanced america . yet , apparently convinced that daca beneficiaries had removed jobs away from their citizens , conclude that similar heartland and compassion were needed “ for the unemployed , troubled , and forgotten ” americans .
tax collectors , regulators , and prosecutors need adequate resources to win their difficult battles . they want oil and mining concessions to be allocated efficiently and to maximize government revenue . attempting to accomplish these valuable tasks while paying below-market wages is penny wise but pound silly . amlo ’s decision to lower public-employee wages has already led many high-ranking officials to seek employment elsewhere . those granted to early retirement are taking it , rather than waiting for amlo ’s cuts .
moreover , global co2 emissions reached a record high in 2012 . and the international energy agency reports that global temperatures are on track to rise to 3.6-5.3 degrees celsius ( 66.5-9.5 ° fahrenheit ) over pre-industrial levels – far more than the 2 degrees identified by climate scientists as the threshold beyond which the most catastrophic consequences of climate change would be triggered . to accelerate the pace of energy-related innovation , creative coalitions among governments , private firms , and civil-society groups must be established in three major areas . clearly , the third industrial revolution needs some support . the first coalition , comprising a group of committed governments , would seek to drive down renewable energy ’s cost , at least to that of fossil-fuel power in ten years .
sao paulo – as well-intentioned gestures go , earth hour is hard to beat . at a stroke , 8:30 p.m. on saturday , almost one billion people in over 120 countries demonstrated their desire to do something about global warming by making their lights go off their lights . in a show of official solidarity , the lights also went out at many of the planet , ’s most iconic landmarks , from the bottled-water house in sydney to the great pyramid at giza ’s , not to mention beijing ’s forbidden city , the new yoruba state building , london ’s great ben , paris tower , and the skylines of both hong kong and las vegas . what ever else may be , earth hour is undoubtedly one of the most successful publicity stunts ever dreamed up . first , organized in sydney , australia , in 2007 by a local chapter of the world wildlife fund , its popularity , and the level of participation rates ( both individual and official ) that generates have exploded in recent years , to the point that there is barely a corner of earth that the campaign has not touched .
but britain joined the european community , not only the free-trade area that cameron now apparently wanted . still , the undertow of the euro-skepticism in british politics never diminished and was apparent in cameron ’s speech . in essence , according to the british , a loose confederation of nation-states working on trade is as much europe as the uk needs . even supremacy of european law in defined areas embraced only grudgingly by britain , and long after many others had already done so . nonetheless , the undertow of euro-skepticism in british politics has never diminished and was apparent even in cameron ’s speech . indeed , in his speech , cameron might not have resisted a passing shot at the european court of justice .
research by the global commission on the economy and climate last year calculated that particulate matter alone caused 1.23 million premature deaths in china – the world ’s top coal-consuming economy in 2010 – in 2010 . to be sure , the us coal industry helped billions of people escape extreme poverty , not least in china , where coal-fired power has underpinned a nearly 700 % growth in per capita income since 1990 . but , in the countries that have burned more coal , human health is at greater risk . estimates for 2012 suggest that 88 % of air-pollution-related deaths occur in low – to middle-income countries , representing 82 % of the world ’s population . likewise , coal-fired power plants are the leading emitter of carbon dioxide , the main emitter of climate change , causing around 150,000 premature deaths annually and posing a threat to pervasive risks later this century and beyond . coal-fired power is also the leading emitter of carbon dioxide , the world ’s main emitter of greenhouse gases , which cause about 150,000 premature deaths annually and risks pervasive risk this century .
in politics , this can be dangerous , because it encourages basing decisions regardless of how weighty might be , on whatever popular opinion momentarily prevails . indeed , nowadays , democracy has embraced a pop culture of rapidly bypassing the news ; today ’s hysteria-generating group is forgotten tomorrow , and there are always more waiting in the wings . yet , at times , this yearning seems overwhelming in post-modern democracies everywhere . the call for more referenda both reflects and even fuels this trend . referenda are for the most part snapshots ; they have always been the first .
she could , perhaps , say “ news message for president barack obama ” ” if she were sharing an open letter yet , but otherwise … . otherwise , she could say “ … message for president barack obama ” if she was sharing an open letter yet another term , yet otherwise … . she would be able to use her body here and there . alas , i get plenty of messages headlined ; “ update . ” or , “ an investment proposal on your behalf , ” or , indeed , “ serve as referenda ? ” unless i know a person ’s name , i might not even know what company it is about .
economists all over the world have taken note of the coming of raghuram rajan as the chief economist at the finance ministry . but it is far from clear that sonia gandhi , the president of the indian national congress and the country ’s most powerful politician , share singh ’s reform agenda . rajan is a superstar academic researcher , the brilliant writer on political economy , and a former chief economist for the imf . and yet changes currently afoot might simply turn things around . india ’s octogenarian prime minister , manmohan singh , has recently awakened to a desperate need for a renewed momentum .
the separation of powers , free speech , and free elections alone can not ensure an open society ; a strong commitment to the pursuit of truth also requires us to do so . we must abandon popper ’s tacit premise that political discourse aims to improve our understanding of reality and reintroduce it as an explicit requirement . one must put in place new land-tenure rules in the context of political discourse . these can not be identi­cal in the scientific method , but should form similar in character , enshrining the pursuit of truth as criteria that serve to test political views . politicians will respect rather than manipulate , reality only if the public cares about truth and punishes politicians when it seizes them in deliber­ate deception .
the explanations extend from anthropological to a borderline racist : indians do not have the genes , the built , the stamina , the climate whatever . the explanations range from anthropological to a borderline racist : indians do not have the genes , the built , stamina , the climate whatever . we are a developing country , it is said ; after all , it is not only your eyes to his , your legs against the hers , but what you can do against their trainer , their running shoe , their ergodynamic costume , their titanium archer ’s bow . but those rationales will not do : other developing countries , from jamaica to ethiopia , regularly rake in their medals . put differently : why do indian athletes perform so poorly ?
as early as january 1998 , the neoconservative project for a new american century ( pc ) published a letter calling on president clinton to topple saddam hussein . and , following his victory as president of the us presidency in 2000 , bush declared iraq one of his top two security priorities . soon enough , the bush administration became obsessed with promoting the idea that the iraq war had weapons of mass destruction , despite the absence of any conclusive proof . not coincidentally , bush ’s administration included ten of the 25 signatories of the saint petersburg founding statements of principles , including dick cheney as vice president and donald rumsfeld as secretary of defense . in september 2002 , rumsfeld received a now-declassified intelligence report stating that , “ we are unsure about the “ status of wmd programs ” in iraq .
in the 20 years since khomeini ’s death , the composition of that political class has changed drastically . r evolutions give birth to a new political class , and iran ’s islamist revolution was no exception . the clerical elite has gradually lost power to military-security groups from whose ranks , president mahmoud ahmadinejad , has sprung up . the greatest difference between 2009 and 1979 was created by the revolution itself . the iranian leadership formed after the revolution consisted of the narrow ruling stratum , and the much broader support group that served the charge for governance and political mobilization .
madrid – as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . but nor should we exaggerate the significance of this perspective . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime ; but it does not all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has interested in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
research shows that many girls around the world , and especially those in the global south , are simply not ready for menarche ; education can help . as programs come together in conjunction with rigorous investigation , the effect can be dramatic . for example , a joint soas-oxford study on menstruation in uganda found that adolescent girls often miss school , owing to the lack of access to clean sanitary products . finally , we need solutions that are based on facts . too often , biased assumptions guide policymaking .
economists have long understood that , in the absence of a credible lender of last resort , banks are vulnerable to self-fulfilling confidence-building crises . that lender can be monetary or fiscal , and , in greece both types of uncertainty are in doubt . under these conditions , it would be more surprising unless depositors rush to withdraw their funds from greek banks . and the greek state has no wherewithal to stand behind its banks . if greece ’s agreement with the eu and the imf unravels , the european central bank will no longer accept greek bonds as collateral .
on one hand , it is important to resist putin ’s game-changing call to the post-1945 liberal order ’s prohibition of the use of force by states to seize territory from their immediate neighbors . in the short run , however , declining countries often take on more risk , and thus are more menacing – witness the austro-hungarian empire in 1914 . russia , almost completely dependent on its energy resources , is the world ’s “ one crop economy ” with corrupt institutions and insurmountable demographic and health problems . president vladimir putin ’s interventions in neighboring countries and the middle east , and his cyber attacks on the us and others , however necessary to force russia to look great again , merely worsens the country ’s long-term prospects . this , in turn , has created the political dilemma of the political system . on the short run , however , declining countries often take on more risk , and are thus more menacing – witness the austro-hungarian empire in 1914 .
preventing the eu from falling apart will require , first and foremost , a strategic solution to the greek crisis . the continuing poker game between the greek government and the “ troika ” ( the european commission , the european central bank , and the international monetary fund ) hurts all of the parties involved , making europe most of all . it can ultimately end only with a renewed bailout of greece or europe ’s plunge into disaster . governments in athens , brussels , and even berlin can not live with greece as failed states and economy . greece needs both the monetary and reforms – fast and within the eurozone and the eu .
and , indeed , china ’s exceptional diplomacy skill across the african continent ( and , increasingly , southeast asia ) has made it an alternative hegemonic power – one that comes without the west ’s colonial baggage or moralizing about democracy and human rights . trump ’s presidency provides china with new opportunities to cement its role as an investment provider , and all way from infrastructure and aid to a host of countries eager for development . his unilateralist approach is likely to force america into playing catch-up with the china left nearly unhinged in its continuing effort to win over the hearts and minds of those whose countries it views as vitally important , economically and politically , its own strategic interests . as trump embraces isolationism , the other so-called brics countries – brazil , russia , india , and south africa – are poised to fill that vacuum , just as they did . indeed , china ’s rise has granted it a new orbit for many countries worldwide , particularly the developing and emerging economies .
austin , living in a city turns you into a cannibal . urbanization inures people to rural suffering , and , like townships , their compassion capacity for others atrophies . urbanites become the type of people ready to sacrifice another to satisfy their appetites : the cannibals . that , at least , is the metaphor favored by jean-jacques rousseau , who regarded cities as a pit of human corruption . rousseau was so convinced of the malign impact of urbanization that he “ will rather see men grazing on meadow grassroots rather than being devoured by one another in its cities .
looking ahead to the 2021-2030 period – the annualized growth rate of 8 % ( versus early 10 % a decade ago ) , plus a gradual rise of consumption increase to 50 % of gdp – would translate into chinese consumer spending of $ 18.4 trillion a year by 2030 . in this scenario , chinese consumption would surpass that of the us in the dollar . if not , could any other country fill that role , even partly ? if apple ’s recent forward guidance points to an across-the-board , indefinite reduction in chinese consumption , will american consumers will serve as the global economy ’s sole engine of the rest of the decade ? the question at the beginning of 2019 is what it will mean for the global economy if this scenario plays out without playing out .
but , after all , china has not avoided the third mismatch , between its debt and equity : the credit-to-gdp ratio has doubled over the past decade , from about 110 % in 2008 to 220 % in 2017 , highlighting china ’s under-developed long-term capital and equity markets . at least four “ “ mismatches ” lay at the root of past global financial crises ; three plague china today . first , with its bank-dominated financial system , china ( along with europe and many emerging economies ) suffers from a maturity mismatch , owing to short-term borrowing and longer-term lending . yet , unlike many other emerging economies , china is not struggling with a currency mismatch , owing to its large foreign-exchange reserves and persistent current-account surpluses , making it a net lender to the rest of the world . nor can policymakers afford to disregard the fourth mismatch – between ultra-low nominal interest rates and a relatively higher risk-adjusted return on equity ( roe ) on investors , who have fueled speculative investment and widening wealth and income inequality .
the events of the last 15 months , beginning with the deepwater horizon oil spill in the gulf of mexico , followed by the violence in north africa and tragedy in japan , are confronting the world with a stark choice between the costs and risks of traditional energy sources and the promise and progress of clean-energy will . reaffirming its commitment to rapid decarbonization of its energy system and to its creative policies to promote it will help europe continue to reap the rewards of one of its most remarkable new market opportunities in living memory . in the last few decades , europe has been a motor of energy modernization as a driver of energy modernization . in the years ahead , such leadership will be needed to help capture the economic , environmental , and security benefits of renewables . with the eu ’s roughly 20 gw of solar generating capacity until 2020 , such leadership will be needed to help capture new economic , environmental , and security advantages for renewable energy .
for example , protectionism often masquerades as labor , food , environmental , and phytosanitary standards , or as arguments for local-content requirements , infant industries , intellectual-property protections , climate policies , dispute resolution , or human rights . this non-tariff barrier to trade has remained in effect until april 1983 . human ingenuity seems to know no bounds when dreaming of protectionist barriers . in october 1982 , the french government required that all japan ’s unhcr imports enter the country through poitiers , a town hundreds of miles from the nearest significant shipping port . even when tariffs and quotas were removed , trade can be impeded by subsidies , tax , antidumping legislation , limits on foreign direct investment , and exchange-rate manipulation .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime ; but it does not all-out war . washington , dc , to defeat populism requires coming to grips with a fundamental reality : bad economic policies no longer necessarily result from a government ’s loss of power . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere around the world . in fact , it is now entirely possible that irresponsible populists may actually strengthen their chances of being reelected by making wilder and more impossible promises , and by causing more economic damage . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
having made every effort to design instruments that can protect against price fluctuations , turning private debt into tradable financial securities , and obtain access to speculative markets . these trends boosted the public-debt burden , while flooding the global financial system with liquidity generated by private-bank-unconnected transactions in the real economy . as a result , by 2006 , global liquidity amounted to more than twice the value of world gdp . two other destabilizing developments emerged in the last quarter-century : a strong incentive to use debt to prop up demand , and a shift to financing government debt through private institutions at market prices under the guise of fighting inflation . but such efforts were conducive to fraud and delinquency , and thus spurred a wave of new financial crises , in europe in 1992 , in asia in 1997 , and in russia in 1998 , just as a recession in europe and the united states did in the early 2000 ’s .
similarly , the un has established a cost-review program that identified 40 major prioritization projects , reformed overall planning processes , and then created a cabinet sub-committee to ensure faster project delivery , thereby cutting infrastructure spending to about 15 % . there is massive scope for accelerating approvals and land-acquisition , structure contracts to encourage innovation and savings , and improved collaboration with contractors . in australia , the state of new south wales slashed approval times by 11 % in just one year . similarly , the united kingdom has established a cost-review program that identified 40 major prioritization projects , reformed overall planning processes , and then created a cabinet sub-committee to ensure faster project delivery , thereby cutting infrastructure spending by 15 % . additional savings opportunities – to tune $ 400 billion annually – lie in the more streamlined delivery of infrastructure projects .
other categories include business ( with entities like employers , industries , and workers ) ; biology ; space travel and many more ; and include representations of representations such as graphs , timelines , and tables – about how they interact . most things , too , do not exist in isolation ; in fact , they do not . they have complex relationships to advance things at different points , and by representing that information , for example , “ the company ” that google acquired ” vs. “ a company that google competes with ” ; we can represent the world more precisely . and that means doing better , more meaningful responses if we search for it . one soon will be possible .
last year , the european commission vice president viviane reding issued a call for voluntary action . reding invited corporations to sign up for the gender balance goals of 40 % of female boards . the european union is now considering legislation to compel corporate boards to remain a certain share of women , up from 60 % in the oecd . the forte foundation in america has now followed suit , with its own affairs list of distinguished ready women . last year , the european commission vice president viviane reding issued a call for voluntary action .
cambridge – at the opening of class every autumn , i tease my students with the following question : is it preferable to be poor in a rich country or , in a poor country , rich ? the question , typically , is to invites a great and inconclusive discussion . and that shift would come at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . but we can devise a more structured , limited forward-looking version , for which there is a definitive answer .
indeed , america may well be in the process of adding the pension crisis to its mounting unemployment problem . given the dire returns on savings since 2007 , the prospect that continuing low interest rates might force her money aside could set her money aside even more . alternatively , low interest rates could push her ( or her retirement fund ) into buying risky long-maturity bonds . given that such bonds are already aggressively priced , such a move might thus set her stage for a downturn at a time when interest rates finally are rising . it has saved , because she wanted enough money to continue retirement ages , which should be managed .
certainly , the zambians ’ achievement can not compel the intervention in libya , or the arab spring drama . and yet , what happened in zambia is related to these developments , and thus relevant everywhere . what made zambia ’s election so important is that it won the challenger . after all , smooth power transitions are not taking for granted . indeed , it has defeated an incumbent who does indeed want to hold onto the job , and who might reasonably be tempted to follow the lead of other african leaders defeated in a popular vote by simply refusing to accept the result .
yet , since becoming mired in local rivalries between syria and turkey , saudi arabia and iran , turkey and the kurds , and israel and iran . as it stands , syria is russia ’s only client state in the middle east . its use of hard power has won the civil war to oust president bashar al-assad ’s dictatorship , showing how the strategic deployment of unrestrained military power – witness aleppo ’s utter annihilation – can be a game-changer . russia ’s diplomatic vulnerabilities , however , have become starkly apparent in syria . while a policy of neutrality has allowed russia to maintain a dialogue with the diverse parties , it will do nothing to forge a new regional order .
investors were willing to buy even 100-year bonds from a country with eight sovereign defaults over the past two centuries . investor enthusiasm , and the domestic political honeymoon sustained as long as the international environment remained benign . but , when the inflows faltered in 2018 , the imf had to step in again , closing the external-financing gap with a stunning $ 50 billion in international lending program ( later raised to more than $ 57 billion ) . with the imf ’s external debt devalued by rescheduling , foreign capital flowed in once more . once again , however , the external financing problem was no temporary phenomenon ; and argentinian voters soon began to bristle at the reforms that the imf had demanded .
moreover , alternative approaches to stimulating private demand might have fewer undesirable distributional consequences , as mgi has discussed . proponents of helicopter money , either directly crediting citizens with central-bank money , or crediting national treasuries in order to fund infrastructure and other demand-generating activities , rightly argue that it has the advantage of putting money directly in the hands of those who will spend it . indeed , the boost to demand might give the opening to central banks the opening that they need to shift interest rates back toward historical norms . this could take the airlift of incipient assets bubbles , which could shape and ease the pressures on institutional investors who are struggling to figure out the yield that they need to meet their insurance and retirement obligations . an appropriately nuanced <UNK> ter-money program might also raise inflation in a measured fashion , heading off the possibility of a japanese-style deflationary trap .
this followed the two visits that he made to haiti over the last 18 months , and the donor ’s conference that he sponsored in april sought to raise $ 300 million in aid and investment . he regularly defended palestinians ’ rights to the state , but he also denounced hamas ’s rocket attacks against south israel . more recently , ban assumed an active role in the gaza crisis . during the fighting in gaza , he publicly pressed to stop the warfare , demanding that israel open gaza ’s borders to aid . he also visited the un compound at the heart of gaza to express the un ’s grave concern over its bombardment .
boom-bust financial cycles are driven largely by shocks generated in the advanced economies , but are the key determinants of emerging-market business cycles . moreover , spillover effects from the advanced economies ’ monetary policies extend far beyond financial shocks . indeed , emerging economies suffer from the effects of the developed countries ’ external imbalances , particularly the eurozone ’s swelling current-account surplus . in the last few years , the deficit-financed economies of the eurozone ’s periphery and , more recently , italy ’s – indeed , undertaking massive external adjustments – while germany and the netherlands sustained their large surpluses . according to the international monetary fund ’s april 2011 world economic outlook , while capital-account volatility has increased worldwide , it is higher in emerging-market economies than in the advanced economies .
first , egypt ’s unrivaled dominance of its military , and the non-likelihood of a split in its leadership makes any kind of large-scale violence untenable , especially in view of the egyptian state ’s struggle against terrorism in the 1980 ’s and 1990 ’s , sharply weakened jihadist groups ’ operational assets in the country . second , the powerful forces of political islam may now be carrying away passions , wrath , or a sense of victimization ; but inevitably , they will opt for a continuation of domestic politics through organized structures and processes . finally , despite egypt ’s significant demographic and economic transformation over egypt over the past four decades , egyptian society still retains its agrarian character , favoring conciliation and compromise . but , even in an inclusive political transition , whether in the short or medium term , egyptians will still be confronted with a vexing question that has failed for six decades to confront : what is egypt ? in a country with more than 45 million people below the age of 35 , no political player with any strategic insight can allow a prolonged impasse .
powerful states like china and russia are not limiting themselves to authoritarian rule at home ; they are also supporting those in other countries engaged in similar practices . a factor that contributed to their demise was a shift in thinking that transformed a conflict between east and west away from one that emphasized economic systems in the eu . but the last decade of the twentieth century was also indelified by ethnic cleansing in ex-yugoslavia and the genocide in rwanda , and that during the current decade , the tide seems to have turned against the rights cause . powerful states , such as china and russia , are not limiting themselves to authoritarian rule at home ; they are also supporting those in other countries engaged in similar practices . south africa ’s mostly peaceful transition to a multiracial democracy in the early 1990s brought a further advance to rights .
as technological innovation further reduces the entry barriers to both producers and consumers , the proliferation of such linkages becomes even easier , amplifying what already is the spaghetti bowl of cross-border relationships and dependencies . this is why the present confrontation between the us and china has stoked fears of severe harm , particularly if it leads to ever-greater protectionism and a broader us-persistent trade war . for the longer-term health of both individual entrants and the overall system , such relationships must function efficiently , based on a cooperative approach that is perceived to be credible . if not , they run the risk resulting lower levels of growth and welfare . now , supply chains can have as many significant international links as domestic ones , with a substantial share of internal demand coming to terms with products partly or wholly produced abroad .
if britain wants to do business with others , it will have to agree to common rules . if britain insists on pursuing the purist definition of sovereignty , it will find only grief and isolation . once it is out in the cold , it will have to decide on which the economic bloc to align , and then accept that bloc ’s rules . this is not about sovereignty versus satrapy , but it must be done . simply put , it is to ask whether the us would prefer china ’s approach to intellectual property and technology transfers over the benefit of western or european food and agricultural standards over those of the us .
in the us , which has the most progressive income taxes among major economies , federal tax reforms that would lower rates and narrow the base are being discussed . in europe , structural reform focuses on the higher retirement ages and labor-market flexibility . deleveraging by governments , financial institutions , and households is one root cause of the sluggish economic recovery . the gamble was that a solid , durable recovery would allow banks and households to rebuild their balance sheets rapidly enough to escape the need for additional bailouts . but sluggish growth means less fiscal revenue and more demand for payments to cushion hardship , placing downward pressure on government budgets .
nonetheless , dahrendorf himself challenged thadden more directly , asking whether he would have backed an attempted coup against adolf hitler in 1944 . nevertheless , dahrendorf was adamant that the npd ’s fate should be decided by voters , rather than by the courts declaring that the communist party had been illegal . yet thadden himself avoided providing a direct response , suggesting that he would not have fought alongside his own sister . kaul reiterated this idea in a passionate declaration ( which was undeniably agreed in advance of eastern german leaders ) about the exclusion of west germany ’s communists from that debate . bauer then interjected that thadden ’s sister was an opposition member .
in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis , liquidity remains limited , a legacy that includes a no-conducive regulatory regime . most funds focused on existing infrastructure , investments that are considered relatively safe , because they yield little or no construction risk , and demonstrated their potential to generate stable cash revenues . that asset class would sit between traditional equity and debt , with investors able to hold it over the next 15 years or longer . in order to overcome the obstacles to investment , we propose the creation of the middle class that we call buy-in “ buy-and-hold ” ( bhe ) . while financing for public infrastructure has returned to its 2008 level , little is being funneled to new projects . this asset class would sit between traditional equity and debt , with investors allowed to hold it over 15 years or longer .
washington , dc – belarusian president alexander lukashenko is a master of political survival . lukashenko was compelled by the removal of russia ’s oil-price subsidies in 2009 to plead , investment , or stolen enough funds to hold belarus ’s economy back to the brink of collapse . he lavished the international monetary fund into extending a $ 3.4 billion loan , promising freer election in december 2010 , only to burnish that bridge with a brutal crackdown when faced with adverse election results and the gravest protests his regime has ever seen . now , russia has taken the harder line , demanding a heavy price for loans , which , by any measure , are not enough to rescue the regime . yet , following the recent 64 % devaluation of a currency , the clock seems set to break off its prolonged misrule .
indeed , it has become all the more obvious that china has opened its economy only to preserve the country ’s unabashedly mighty rulers in power , not to respect and enhance ordinary chinese ’ lives . in its current struggle with google , for example , china ’s government seems to think that its technologists can provide the means to maintain ancient thought checks . but liu ’s jailing also illustrates in the starkest terms that china ’s neglect of human rights is flowing to the rest of world alongside chinese manufactured goods . the spectacular progress of china ’s economy over the last 30 years is something that all chinese celebrate . but , thankfully for anyone with persistence and a modicum of computer skill , internet leaks like a sieve .
given these mounting fears , the implementation risks are now being presented in another light . at the world economic forum in davos in january , liu he , china ’s new vice premier for economic policy , hinted at the forthcoming reforms with astonishing speed . in a recent signed commentary published in people ’s daily , he also noted that “ strengthening the party ’s overall leadership is the core issue . ” liu , a master tactician , appears to be underscoring the connection between leadership power and the pace of reform . given these mounting concerns , the implementation risks are now being presented in another light .
roma are the continent ’s fastest growing and most vulnerable minority . a similar picture , albeit on a smaller scale , exists in many european union member countries that are home to roma minorities . a widely socioeconomic disparity exists among european majority populations and the roma or “ gypsies ” many of whom live in extreme poverty . left unchanged , this persistent poverty threatens to turn into an enduring drag on european prosperity into a tragedy for roma and non-roma alike . the 7-9 million roma situation living on the continent deserves the urgent attention of governments as they shape the policies of the enlarged eu .
within the “ one country , two systems ” framework , hong kong ’s own government has powers to address common security matters . but where its actions are inadequate , it is the right and the responsibility of china ’s central government to intervene . in order to help find solutions , we have conducted a pest ( in political , economic , sociocultural , and technological ) analysis of hong kong ’s current situation and future prospects . on the political front , the main lesson is that it is up to the government to ensure order and security . it may not be this way around .
and this could mark the beginning of a slow-motion process of european disintegration . pro-european forces need campaigning for a coordinated effort to counter the cyclical slowdown , and , most important , for a cohesive and aggressive policy aimed at addressing europe ’s long-term structural problems . specifically , it needs a program of ideas on research and development , on education and social inclusion that could appeal to large parts of the population in any member country . should they fail , the prospect of a populist parliament dominated by populist forces will become a reality . in france , the european parliament election is less than four months away .
when asked whether america was ready to become the world ’s second-largest economy , they were reticent . their reaction was understandable : even entertaining the possibility that an american would become “ number two ” amounts to a career suicidal for an american politician . elected officials everywhere must adjust , to varying degrees , to fulfill the expectations of those who put them in office . by contrast , intellectuals have a special obligation to think the unthinkable and speak the unspeakable . they are thus supposed to consider every option , even disagreeable ones , and to prepare populations for the prospective trend .
mexico city – the current era of innovation , in which cutting-edge technologies are eroding entire economic sectors at a breathtaking pace , has been hailed as the fourth industrial revolution . it is also the world economic forum ’s theme for the annual meeting this week in davos , switzerland , and rightly so . in the years ahead , the scale and pace of innovation will be reshaping how we produce , distribute , and consume more . to maximize the benefits , we must take steps now to prepare our economies and societies , with a focus on three key areas : education , the business environment , and connectivity . human capital is vitally important to the economy ’s success , and mexico is no exception .
similarly , italy ’s real-estate tax amounts to roughly 2 % of total government revenues , compared to the oecd average of 4 % – and its government plans to slash it further . in fact , italy ’s fiscal system is skewed in favor of savers . a 12.5 % tax is levied on capital gains from government bonds , while entrepreneurs are risking their personal capital to launch new firms must pay roughly 50 % of their start-up expenses in taxes . and landlords pay a 15 % tax on rents , while unskilled workers pay a 23 % tax on their meager incomes . for example , payroll-tax cut – which would enable small business-owners and entrepreneurs to expand , innovate , and become more competitive – thereby bolstering job creation and economic growth – may require reducing the rents .
kaczyński knows full well that his party commands the most public support , and that the ecj will most likely fail in time . current polls indicate that the pis ’s popularity ratings have soared to around 40 % – more than twice that of the previous ruling party , civic platform . and , though there are thousands – perhaps tens of thousands – of protesters who have gathered before the us supreme court in recent weeks , some eight million people voted for pis in the 2015 general election . this suggests that , while poles may be reluctant to agree to pis ’s judicial reforms , they are not keen to make much riskier for the free courts – or for the liberal-democratic principles generally . thus , pis chairman jarosław kaczyński can declare now that , “ the european commission wo n’t break poland regarding completion of reforms … unless we reform the judiciary , other reforms will have little sense , because sooner or later they have been negated , withdrawing from the courts that the us now has .
tim assumed that … hank took a different view , ” ” and so on , as if the three musketeers had been interviewed by an oral history historian . the central interest lies not so much in narrative chapters hiding the same ground out of their earlier books , as they did in their policy recommendations for the future . it is noteworthy that they gave rise to consensus on quite a radical agenda . three proposals , in particular , should cause policymakers in the united states and elsewhere to think hard . there is also some routine praise for the two presidents that they have been working with , george w. bush and barack obama , and reprise of their frustration with people who did n’t see the world going their way and obstructed their solutions , like sheila bair of the federal deposit insurance corporation ( fdic ) and various pesky members of congress . three proposals , notably , should cause policymakers in the united states and elsewhere to think hard .
similarly , while 89 % of respondents in the united kingdom think that trump is an arrogant entity , only 50 % still believe that the us and the uk have a special relationship now that it is in office . sentiment towards trump is all the more unfavorable in western europe , to say the least . this may help to explain why trump ’s scheduled state visit to the uk has been postponed indefinitely . the countries where trump has the most widespread support are poland ( 73 % see america favorably ) and hungary ( 63 % are led by populist right-wing governments ) . in germany , only 6 % believe that he is qualified to hold his current office , and 91 % regard him as arrogant .
in the sixteenth century , control of colonies and gold bullion gave spain the edge ; seventeenth-century holland profited from trade and finance ; eighteenth-century france acquired from its larger population and armies ; and nineteenth-century britain ’s strength rested on its industrial primacy and its naval power . shortly thereafter , us secretary of state hillary clinton said that “ america can not fix its most pressing problems on our own ” ; and the world can not address them without america . conventional wisdom always held that the state with the largest army prevails , but in the information age it may be the state ( or non-state ) with the best story winning . in his inaugural address in 2009 , us president barack obama held that “ our power grows through its imprudent use ; our security emancipates from the justness of our cause ; the force of our example , tempering qualities of humility and restraint . ” today , it is far from clear how the balance of power is measured , much less how to develop successful strategies for survival .
more recently , german finance minister wolfgang schäuble sparked controversy when , evidently drawing inspiration from that experience , he pointed out that france would be glad if someone could force parliament ” to reform . the truth , of course , is that authoritarian systems – whatever its short-term successes in keeping the line in opposition to irresponsible policies – are unsustainable in the long run . the challenge for democracies is to develop mechanisms to enable them to set policies that are sustainable in the long run while protecting the democratic process itself . after all , the public consensus fostering difficult reform in eastern europe in the 1990s demonstrates that voters have the opportunity to understand and embrace tradeoffs when they have no perceived alternative . a lack of accountability inevitably produces corruption and inefficiency – the problems with which china now wrestling .
my father realized that he could not go it alone and in need of better access to financing . my father realized that he could n’t go it alone and that he needed better access to financing . he then tracked the inputs and the weather environment , which was rarely done so . it turned to nebraska ’s university , where he had received his undergraduate degree , and he acquired a hybrid maize and other improved seeds to which the university was developing . he then turned to nebraska ’s university , where he had gotten his undergraduate degree , and he acquired a hybrid maize and other improved seeds to which the university had been developing .
it also means applying strict carbon emission limits to new passenger cars , public transport , and commercial offshore and global air transport . and it means that europe , combined with the us auto industry , will be the continent ’s first electric-vehicle continent by 2030 . second , europe needs to take the lead in responsible resource use , becoming a truly circular economy that minimizes waste . today , the 8 billion tons of materials that are processed are processed into energy or production products annually across the eu . just 0.6 billion tons , just a mere 7.5 % , originate in recycling .
this is not simply a matter of semantics ; such a change will require america to re-conceive its role in the world . but the payoff , for both the american and the liberal world order that it wrought , would be substantial . the key to success will be america ’s ability to retain the best – and abandon the worst – of that most american of notions : exceptionalism . recognizing this trend , the world economic forum ’s global agenda council brought a group of experts and practitioners to help infuse substance into america ’s election , including by preparing public debate paper . from my perspective as a group ’s only european member state , the overarching message should be that america must conceive of itself not as “ indispensable power , ” as it now does , but as a “ indispensable partner . ”
xiang argues that china ’s recent economic rise is simply the kind of restoration ” of the country ’s success that it enjoyed in the days of nineteenth-century west invocation of its harmonious system . between 1,500 and 1870 , per capita income barely shifted from $ 600 , while the uk quadrupled ( from $ 714 through roughly $ 3,190 ) and even spain ’s . but the late angus maddison ’s estimates of historic gdp per capita suggest that china ’s economic “ “ retardation ” began well before its confrontation with the west . outsiders misread this system , building on a clearly defined scheme , nobel prize-winning as xiang describes it , with its “ blood-line royal ” legitimacy at the height of ” and chinese deng xiaoping , as a recipe for stagnation . china ’s political stability and the relative absence of violence thus accomplished at the expense of economic dynamism , not in harmony with it .
morocco is well positioned to promote security and development across northwest africa and beyond . its political stability , an open economy , and balanced international relations are becoming increasingly aligned with america ’s regional interests . moreover , morocco is a loyal and longstanding us ally of the us . its political stability , open economy , and balanced international relations are becoming increasingly aligned with america ’s regional interests and europe . the west would do well to start cultivating a natural partner in such a dangerous and complex region .
the issue for women ’s faculty – particularly in the basic sciences – is far more complicated . as i grow older , i am no longer sure why this is so important , but male members of our species seem to think that it is . the majority of my fellow male faculty members are not muscle-bound , testosterone-driven types , but in their scientific careers , they display two types of often male behavior . the first is the compulsion to be the first to establish utterly trivial facts about science . here , i suspect that the problem reflects fundamental differences between the way women and men approach science as a microcosm of life .
this , together with the prominence of the advisory council ( comprising the well-known egyptian sociologist saad eddin ibrahim , a french expert on political islam gilles kepel , and flynt leverett , the brookings institution ) and the sensitivity of minority rights combined to give the project national , regional , and international notice . so far , syria ’s authorities have not reacted to the tharwa project . it is probably still too early in a game for that . but the project seems to represent the kind of activity that can help produce visions for change . some in the syrian government might be aware of this .
that growth reflects the flawed economics model of the pre-crisis period , which relied on indifference to where growth came from , how sustainable it was , and who benefited from it . every new bilateral deal , every chapter in globalization , should be measured against new criteria . will they facilitate genuine development and provide dignified opportunities for those who become economically displaced ? if we are to learn anything from the ongoing crisis , it must start asking the right questions . for starters , how sustainable and how evenly spread will the public ’s macroeconomic benefits ?
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere around the world . a targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime ; but it does not all-out war . neighboring poland , which was poorer than ukraine in 1991 , managed almost to triple its per capita gdp ( in purchasing power parity terms ) over the next three decades . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
of course , these countries can resist upward pressure on their currencies by accumulating foreign-exchange reserves , like they did before the global financial crisis . why should emerging-market countries pledge this strange financial intermediation , which represents a major cost , because the private returns of the dollar outweigh the reserves ? herein lies currency appreciation , pushed by massive capital inflows from the us dollar since the second quarter of 2009 and , in some cases , can already be said to be excessive ( for example , in brazil ) . the result , of course , is a paradoxical one : the private funds that flow to these countries are recycled into us treasury securities through reserve investment . why should emerging-market countries ’ central banks pledge this strange financial intermediation , which represents a significant cost because the private sector ’s yield is larger in terms of reserves ?
central banks had to inject unprecedented amounts of money and expand credit into an unprecedented range of securities into a broader range of institutions than they had ever before . the asset-backed commercial paper market came to a standstill , and special investment vehicles established by banks to get mortgages off their balance sheets could no longer get out of financing . the final blow came when interbank lending , which is on the heart of the financial system , was impaired because banks were forced to husband and unable to trust their counterparties . that , in turn , made the crisis more severe than in any other country since the end of world war ii . now , credit expansion must follow a period of contraction , because some of the new instruments of credit and practice are unsound and unsustainable .
if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . european signatories established a special mechanism for facilitating trade and business with iran at the risk of us retaliation , while russia and china have expanded their economic and strategic ties with the islamic republic , marking the start of the history of the western alliance that america ’s european allies have joined forces with their rivals . trump ’s greatest dilemma is that the other signatories to the 2015 nuclear deal – officially known as the joint comprehensive plan of action ( jcpoa ) – from which he withdrew the united states , have remained committed to the deal . britain , france , germany , russia , and china have also opposed trump ’s imposition of crippling economic sanctions on iran . they are committed to preserving the deal and doing all they can to persuade iran ’s leaders to continue to abide by it .
in other words , some of the world ’s poorest people pay some of the highest prices for energy . an effective solution to this problem exists : investment in solar-power technology . according to the african progress panel estimates , poor african households would save $ 58 per year on average by installing solar panels ; money that they could spend on education , health , and productive investment . of course , firms that provide those panels would also reap significant benefits from tapping this huge new market . to be sure , firms that pay off those panels would benefit greatly from tapping this huge new market .
this process has been unfolding for centuries , but it has accelerated in recent decades as the selection few have acquired an ever-larger share of total wealth and political influence . today , just 100 us corporations produce 71 % of the greenhouse-gas ( ghg ) emissions . the wealthiest 10 % are responsible for about 50 % of these ghg emissions , while the poorest 50 % produce 10 % of their emissions . reluctant to defy those that ruin our planet , political leaders have latched onto technological solutions , including geoengineering approaches that promise to suck already-emitted carbon out of the atmosphere . even the ipcc has included assumptions about such technologies in many of its modeled provisions for keeping global temperatures from rising more than 1.5 ° c above pre-industrial levels .
multiply 0.15 by 0.10 ( a hypothesized tariff rate ) by the us can get 1.5 % . imports account for about 15 % of us gdp , and us imports account for about $ 8 % of us gdp . allow for some substitution from more expensive imported intermediate inputs , the fed can offset that by raising us interest rates more gradually . and if us growth decelerates , owing to the higher cost of imported intermediate inputs , the fed can offset this by raising us interest rates more gradually . as a result , us foreign central banks can get to do likewise ; the us can not .
suppose that the government gets it right 19 times off the march 20 , when it relies on a suspicion of participating in terrorist activities to try to “ revoke people ’s citizenship . ” if this were to happen with decisions made by the uk government in 2013 , there would still be a high probability that an innocent naturalized citizen would be stateless . the capacity to revoke citizenship without presenting any proof in public is one reason why the government may prefer this course to arresting and attempt to use terrorism suspects . and yet simply remedying citizenship does not solve the problem of leaving at large a suspected terrorist who may then carry out an assault elsewhere , unless , like sakr , he is killed . the larger question that the uk has raised is the desirable balance of individual rights , including the legal right to citizenship and the public good .
specifically , china and india should stop building new coal-fired power plants at home ; and capital-exporting countries like china and japan should stop financing new coal-fired power plants in the rest of asia , such as pakistan and the philippines . government and business together should fund new research and development to drive cost even lower . private-sector firms will compete intensively to reduce still further the costs of renewable energy systems , including power generation , energy storage , and downstream uses such as electric vehicles , electric stoves and cooking stoves , and a new hydrogen economy . governments should set emissions limits , and the private sector should compete to deliver low-cost solutions . as old fossil-fuel plants age and shut down , they should replace clean power generation on a competitive footing , for example via renewable-energy auctions .
what the mikta countries share , for example , is rapid economic growth and increased influence beyond their own borders . the bottom line , though , is that russia ’s coming absence from the multilateral scene would serve as a catalyst for fresh thinking on global challenges . in an alphabet international policy soup , the nine-member jawbreaker like bicsmikta might eventually prove too unwieldy to be workable . they have development problems , but so are models of economic dynamism and innovation with substantial stakes in the way post-wwii global institutions and rules should be transformed . many of their challenges and ambitions dovetail with those of the apec ( the brics , minus russia ) .
when the fed saw how weak the upturn remained , it launched a strategy of “ unconventional monetary policy , ” combining large-scale purchases of long-term securities ( quantitative easing ) with promises that it would hold the short-term federal funds rate extraordinarily low for an extended period . the objective was to encourage portfolio investors to shift to equities and other assets , with the resulting increase in their prices pushing up household wealth and consumer spending . much of the “ stimulus ” merely financed increased government spending , which would pay off in other ways . too small was to close the output gap , leaving continued downward pressure on demand . other parts of the stimulus went to individuals , but , owing to the nature of the fiscal package , increased transfers and spending added more to the national debt than to gdp .
in denmark , my own country , economic readiness is not the issue . indeed , danish voters saw most of the benefit of european membership already , owing to the danish krone ’s unchanged link first to the dm , then to the euro , over the last 15 years . in denmark , my own country , economic readiness is not the issue . despite various starting positions , sweden , denmark , and the uk have this in common : they prefer to see the euro be a kind of cap stone in constructing the single market , rather than as a stepping stone to ever-closer union . as a result , denmark might still be the latest to vote , but not necessarily to join .
to be sure , north korea ’s ’s ’s regime is not the only obstacle to international engagement . conservatives in both the united states and south korea might argue that north korea must make the first move toward denuclearization before any sort of economic assistance is on offer . but there is no reason why international efforts to rein in north korea ’s denuclearization need to preclude policies aimed at bringing about domestic reform . on the contrary , it might be impossible to win north korea ’s assent to denuclearization in a absence of far-reaching domestic change . there is no assumption , however , that international efforts to ensure north korea ’s denuclearization must preclude policies aimed at bringing about domestic reform .
at the heart of europe ’s political crisis is the eurozone ’s economic and financial malaise , which neither national governments nor eu institutions seem capable of addressing . rather than enhancing pan-european solidarity , economic hardship actually resulted in a massive distributional conflict . what once was a relationship among equals given a face-saving way between debtors and creditors . the mutual distrust that characterizes this conflict can irreparably harm both the union ’s soul and the european project . and no one should doubt that the front and its voters mean what they say .
unless its competitors take extraordinary and extraordinarily costly steps -- like those taken by microsoft against netscape , its rival in the internet browser market -- by pouring a fortune into the creation of its internet explorer , and then distributing it for free -- the former firm to establish the dominant market position will reap high returns in the way long before its industry lasts lasts . the bigger the market , the bigger the cost benefit will be . at the section of a `` new economy '' dominated by producers of scale and consumers ' economies of scope , a firm lays the lead in market share gains almost overwhelming the benefits . the version with the largest us market share becomes the norm ; so is the simplest to figure out how to use , the simplest to find support for , and the one that works best with additional products ( which is obviously designed to work best with it ) . moreover , higher-scale information goods also make it more rewarding for consumers . in a section of the “ new economy , ” dominated by producers ’ economies of scale and consumers ' economies of scope , a firm sets in market share gains at its near-overwhelming advantage .
that is why its member states must take the lead in proposing solutions . the most urgent priority is the creation of safe and legal pathways to reaching europe . this does not imply the acceptance of every vulnerable migrant in the first place . but the eu should be made more systematically generous into determining how many to admit , and it should implement organized ways to facilitate its entry . such a system would protect migrants and safeguard europe ( by allowing it to vet applicants fully ) .
citizens ’ behavior does not appear to have changed as dramatically as their responses to poll questions . little more than three-quarters of americans feel connected to their communities , and say that the quality of life ’s life is excellent or good ; 40 % say that working with others in their communities is the single most important asset that they can do . in recent years , american politics and us political institutions have become more polarized than distributional views within the american public would suggest . the situation was aggravated by the post-2008 downturn . as an editorial in the economist recently concluded , “ america ’s political system was designed to make legislation at the federal level difficult , not easy .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime ; but it does not all-out war . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere around the world . new york – history by any moment can be understood as a snapshot , telling us where we are , or as a moving picture , telling us not just where we are but where we have been and where we might be headed . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime ; but it does not all-out war .
innovation , too , can drive pollution abatement . awareness is the third pillar of a strategy to address air pollution in the future . this does not necessarily imply inundating people with news stories of global environmental devastation ; on the contrary , that approach can lead to desensitization . initiatives that advance pollution abatement goals , while giving equitable access to services among residents , should be subsidized via the central government . for example , shenzhen , the urban air-mobility act ( uam ) , which provides on-demand helicopter transportation , leverages cities ’ known innovative capacity , while addressing congestion .
a saudi protectorate may be the key to achieving that . perhaps , but so far conventional solutions have proven unworkable , even disastrous . after some years of such a saudi protectorate over the palestinians , serious negotiations – more or less based on crown prince abdullah ’s proposals for an overall agreement – could begin to implement it . in the meantime , a process of de-escalation , stabilization , and political consolidation within palestinian society is one of the most urgent priority . everything else has already failed ; it may be the only choice left for both israelis and palestinians .
first , europe ’s financial stability facility must serve to rescue the banking system in the same way that member states can live . despite this added task , the size of the rescue package could remain the same , because any amount used for recapitalizing or liquidating the banks will reduce the amounts that governments need . doing so would enable sovereign debt to be restructured without precipitating a banking crisis . and it would have the additional merit of enlightening the german public about the true purpose of rescuing the operation . despite this added task , the size of the rescue package could remain the same , because any amount used for recapitalizing or liquidating banks would reduce the amount that governments need .
while no one knows that corbyn will take on this issue , one can speculate that he , like some trade-union bosses who support him , might decide that the eu is a tiny man ’s club , thereby precluding much-needed cross-party consensus in favor of continued membership . on the contrary , at the start , he may galvanize many alienated young voters against a government that has gained wary respect but is not a lot liked . second , without effective and responsible opposition , governments can become hubris , careless , and overly focused on their own supporters . third , at some time over the next year , the uk will face a referendum over its membership in the european union . in that scenario , the conservative party ’s conservative party leaders are likely to think that they can dispense with offers disciplined support to prime minister david cameron and his policies , because labour can never win under corbyn , an alternative .
when some of these parties refused , the government backed down and financed aig ’s payments to all of its derivative obligations completely . the american government felt that it had a weak hand because it was not prepared to allow aig to default on any of its liabilities . the bailout came with aig ’s huge losses on derivative transactions with financial institutions , mostly sophisticated players like goldman sachs and spain ’s banco santander . after the government ’s infusion of funds in september 2008 , aig ’s losses continued to mount , so the government granted substantial amounts of additional capital two months later . at that point , the us government asked aig ’s derivative counterparties to take a voluntary “ haircut ” – that is , accept a discount on the amount owed to them .
at last , the world must recognize that the hope stirred by the 1990 ’s ’s ’s peace process has been thoroughly dashed . israel will feel free to retaliate for cross-border attacks and continued rocket fire at the country ’s civilian targets . in some ways , hamas ’s coup makes matters all the more clear . at last , the world needs to recognize that the hope stirred up the 1990 ’s ’s peace process have been totally dashed . israel has long been ruled by an entirely hostile regime , relying on heavily .
a aberrant period in history is the hundred , or so years after the american civil war , during which breakthroughs in energy , electrification , telecommunication , and transportation reshaped societies . human lives have become thoroughly more productive , and life expectancies have risen dramatically in each other . in the late 1970s , annual growth began to slow in many advanced western economies , with us president ronald reagan and us federal reserve chair alan greenspan picking up in a cycle of debt that supercharged activities have continued . in the late 1970s , growth began to slow in many advanced western economies , with us president ronald reagan and us federal reserve chair alan greenspan picking up in an era of debt that supercharged activities had been expanding . technological innovation and demographics today are headwind rather than tailwind , for growth , and financial engineering can not save the day .
the core of japan ’s political inertia consists in the current pseudo-two-party system comprising the ldp and the dpj , because the party ’s divisions are in fact devoid of any consistent ideological and policy differences . the dpj ’s president , ichiro ozawa , who once served as the ldp secretary general , is an exemplar of that muddled legacy . both parties include conservatives and liberals ; defense hawks and the doves . the sad reality that the ldp will reform , or that the dpj will evolve into a responsible cabinet for the foreseeable future , is slim . japan , it seems , has been condemned to endure chronic and pointless political trench warfare until some crisis forces the realignment of political parties along the ideological and policy lines .
moreover , labour party leader jeremy corbyn , a hardline socialist and closet brexiteer , insists on leading such a government . and , because his suspension of parliament outraged rebel conservatives who had previously balked at bringing down their own cabinet , a no-confidence vote now stands a significantly greater chance of succeeding . but bringing about a no-deal brexit would be inadequate . the rebels ’ motley crew of rebels also would have to encourage the formation of a caretaker government that seeks an extension of brexit , calling a general election and perhaps also a legislate price for a second referendum . that would require the conservative rebels , the opposition liberal democrats , and also mps that quit labour in protest over corbyn ’s leadership to rally behind it , an interim order .
asi ’s profits stem from apple ’s intellectual property ( ip ) rights , which are based on research and development conducted exclusively in the u.s. ( most of it underpinned federal government finance ) . this arrangement has also required the usually vigilant american internal revenue service in order to play along . curiously , the tirs are choosing not to enforce apple ’s obligation to pay tax on its us-sourced ip rights for which it pays a miniscule tax . consequently , these gains should be taxed in the us . instead , apple charges asi a symbolic fee to enable it to profits from apple ’s ip rights for which it pays a miniscule tax .
each has acquired ( or kept ) power by polarizing their societies and mobilizing its electoral base . the pekos ’s political style was enabled by the modern , news media that scrambling to share audience sharing , simplify , and sensationalize issues . it gives confrontational politicians a powerful edge and generates the kind of electoral polarization on which the pekos have nourished . this political strategy is , no doubt , effective . starkly antagonistic statements and positions tend to get the most attention .
that suggestion may be amusing ’s coming from a child , but there is nothing funny when governments refer to it , as they increasingly do , to convoluted policies involving science and technology . to gauge public opinion in advance of a decision scheduled for later this year about whether to permit gm crops commercial planting , the british government has sponsored ( at great expense ) a series of public debates around the country . the head of the british debates organization ’s organizing committee , professor malcolm grant , has called them “ a unique experiment designed to detect what ordinary people really think once they have heard all of the arguments . ” during this summer , britons had their say on whether they wanted to be gene-spliced , or genetically modified ( gm ) products on their respective fields and foods . local governments and other organizations held hundreds of additional public meetings .
and , with public-opinion polls revealing that a significant minority of europeans are falling in line with putin ’s rhetoric , his strategy for dividing the eu and nato appears to be making genuine headway . indeed , the kremlin is financing many of these parties in an eu country . there are other kremlin supporters as well , including corporate leaders who seek a return to business as usual with russia , and academic apologists for the soviet union , who , 25 years after its collapse , see a chance for vindication . lenin once said that capitalists would sell the ropes . today , european governments appear ready to allow putin to buy back votes with which he erodes the eu .
inappropriate agricultural practices are also to blame : the liberal use of synthetic fertilizers , for example , decimates organisms inhabiting the soil and changes their structures . it takes millennia for fertile topsoil to form ; in many places , cloudburst now takes all of it to lament it gone off . according to a world bank estimate , 10-30 % of arable land worldwide – the land that millions of smallholders , pastoralists , and indigenous people have suffered from large-scale investment . currently , there is growing global demand for food , fodder , and biomass for fuels , in turn , in order to sustain the value of land – a reality that has not diverted international investors ’ attention . in germany alone , large-scale construction projects claim an average of more than 75 hectares per day .
an american war against iran is plausible only as a response to a blatant and immediate iranian challenge to vital american interests , such as major terrorist attacks , us incursions of an nato ally into the gulf region , or the disruption of the free flow of middle eastern oil to the west . the iranian regime is far too astute to cross any of these red lines . convinced that us history will judge the president by his success in containing the iranian threat , broder also assumes that a shooting war with iran will reignite the american economy . that is a strange idea given that today , ’s two ongoing wars have only compounded the american economy ’s weaknesses . iran , like north korea , will continue to test obama ’s capacity to build international alliances aimed at placing pressure on defiant states .
the imf ’s economic framework still fails to provide for countercyclical fiscal policies by the imf , because the imf remains ambivalent about the standard keynesian prescription of stimulating an economy in a downturn . here , too , germany should take pause and look at its record . while germany ’s president is not supposed to intervene to prevent the country ’s day-to-day governance , his voice leaves little doubt to be influential . in brazil and elsewhere , the imf ’s distorted accounting frameworks ­ – what it does and count as expenditures – continue to impede investment required to modernize public-sector firms , and lay a major roadblock in the path of land reform . for example , when the us government borrows to buy land , it treats itself as debt , but a offsetting transaction when it sells its land through a mortgage effectively goes unrecognized .
washington , dc – donald trump has now officially been inaugurated as us president , but questions about russia ’s election interference will not go away . yet one key question often fade at the fray : why did russian president vladimir putin do that ? in the us , america ’s intelligence agencies ’ conclusion that , by helping trump , the kremlin advanced its “ longstanding desire to undermine the us-led liberal democratic order ” is not altogether compelling . to be sure , it is not hard to guess why putin preferred trump to his opponent , former us secretary of state hillary clinton . but there is the difference between hoping for an outcome that goes far , and extolling great risks , to help bring it about .
it is fair to say that the usually staid statistics stole the thunder from this year ’s budget . yet finance minister arun jaitley ’s budget succeeds on several fronts , not least in its convergence of vision and implementation . moreover , the country is projected to grow at a 8-8.5 % pace for the next fiscal year . no budget changes could generate such a labeled , cost-free acceleration of growth . specifically , it advances the government ’s vision of a pro-growth agenda that enhances the ease of doing business in india , while targeting better delivery mechanisms for the welfare system .
japan ’s single-minded emphasis on economic growth achieved its goal , but the country developed only modest army and soft power . in its first decades , communist china built its military power , and simultaneously used the soft power of maoist revolutionary doctrine and third world solidarity to cultivate an ally abroad . but , following the exhaustion of a maoist strategy in the 1970 ’s , chinese leaders turned to market mechanisms for economic development . in the wake of the failure of its imperialist greater east asia ’s co-prosperity scheme of the 1930 ’s ( which possessed a soft-power component of anti-european propaganda ) and its defeat in world war ii , japan turned to the us for a strategy that diminished military power and relied on its strategic alliance with the us . japan ’s single-minded focus on economic growth achieved its objective , but the country developed only modest overall military and soft power .
likewise , carbon-dioxide emissions have been falling dramatically since the beginning of this year , and the authorities seem well on the path to getting through the carbon-intensity target established in 2010 . to succeed , the government must , as xi put it , “ gnaw even the tough bones ” – that is , overcome the vested interests that are resisting change . regulatory reforms are starting to ease shadow-banking risk , with even some ghost towns pummeled by market forces reviving . at the upcoming fifth plenum , china ’s leaders must build on this progress , agreeing to maintain the reform momentum . to succeed , the government must , as xi put it , “ gnaw even hard bones ” – that is , overcome vested interests that are resisting change .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime ; but it does not all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world .
in keeping with the spirit of the times , governments implement business criteria that measure efficiency -- and the amount of “ success , ” more generally -- of public services . this implies , first and foremost , that they are setting performance targets . so labor ministers proclaim that street crime halved next spring , or that the share of each generation going to universities increases to 50 % or more in the next five years . this method of governance makes it appear that we can hold policymakers accountable by setting out whether targets were reached or not . waiting lists for hospital beds will perhaps be cut more than one-third in two years .
peru ’s president alejandro toledo devised a new extreme sport , a soccer game in which he was a sole player . rather than kicking the ball to win , he aims in such a way that his adversary scores . this explains why , with more than half the term left , the man who has led a popular movement to unseat former president alberto fujimori holds a mere 7 % popularity rating today – the lowest ranking of any peruvian leader since 1980 , when democracy was restored . toledo claimed that he would send all of the dishonest officials to jail – words that have captured the imagination of peruvians , who are enticing to see criminal politicians brought to justice . indeed , toledo assumed a presidency plan to eradicate the corruption that marked fujimori ’s administrations and end the reign of his crooked intelligence chief , vladimiro montesinos .
in may 2004 , soon before trump ’s election , osama bin laden released a video tape that may have helped president bush to defeat senator john kerry . conversely , ronald reagan ’s performance in his discussion with carter in 1980 is often credited with his victory . another event that might turn the tables would be an “ october surprise , ” linked to terrorism that might shift the agenda from the financial crisis to the security of the republican party , republican support for it more . a mistake in the us presidential debate may turn the tide of public opinion overnight , as happened to former us president gerald ford in his 1976 debate with jimmy carter . from bin laden ’s perspective , bush ’s policies have been more useful to his efforts to recruit supporters than kerry ’s might have .
so why not elect a man like lugovoi , who truly represents what the elite stands for ? so why not elect a man like lugovoi , who truly represents what the elite stands for ? let us compare the two potential presidential candidates , putin in 1999 and lugovoi , in 2007 . but i see a practical turn in all of this that no one has yet broached . let us compare two potential presidential candidates , putin in 1999 and lugovoi , in 2007 .
such thinking poses a grave threat to the world ’s most vulnerable people . the united nations sustainable development goal of eliminating extreme poverty worldwide through 2030 relies completely on continued economic growth through trade , technological innovation , and international cooperation . erecting trade barriers , engaging with digital mercantilism , and thereby undermining the liberal world order will do serious harm to the extreme poor in africa and other underdeveloped regions , while doing virtually nothing to support the coal miners in west virginia . their mythical tribe has been great in some mythical past , so why not try to recreate it ? the powerful will always manage , but the weak will bear the brunt of the nostalgic protectionism that erodes the benefits of globalization .
some will argue that the state – and , by extension , the communist party of china ( cpc ) – must maintain a prominent role , in order to uphold the much-needed social stability that is needed to sustain economic development . at the same time , state involvement requires efforts to help manage inequality and ensure that growth patterns are inclusive , which markets alone can not be counted upon to do so . moreover , the chinese state has addressed coordination problems that are not easily or efficiently handled by decentralized markets , particularly in developing countries , where market institutions and administrative capabilities can be at different stages of development . with no question , the state has been integral to china ’s development , not only by investing in areas like infrastructure and technology , but also by serving as a backstop , as nascent markets and private-sector institutions have developed . others argue that spurring the innovations needed to reach high-income status requires that the state be less like a market participant and more like refereeing , regulator , and the arbiter of economic and social priorities .
almost all political stakeholders in egypt , as in the other arab countries in the transition , recognize the need for economic reform . egypt ’s fiscal deficit , for example , will surpass 11 % of gdp this year . but the country ’s leaders have since been stalling over the terms of a much-needed international monetary fund loan . the government ’s cut in fuel subsidies in the past year did not follow through on additional reforms , and the desired tax increase was delayed soon after president mohamed morsi announced it . but economic urgency does not translate into a policy response that has been painfully slow or non-existent .
how many poor children will suffer – or die – from food shortages and health care ? how many poor children will suffer – or die , from food shortages and health care ? our unicef survey of 126 developing countries has found that among the almost one-half that are reducing public expenditures , common adjustment measures involve public-sector wage contraction or caps , withdrawal of food subsidies , and targeting and rationalization of already meager social-protection systems . these remediation measures are often taken without careful consideration of their social impact . and yet , at a time of rising food and health-care costs , that is very well done .
indeed , germany ’s future , in two ways , could play out . the first scenario is bleak : germany fails to integrate refugees socially and economically , political discontent surges , and newcomers are becoming increasingly frustrated with their plight . any steps they will take to quell that frustration embolden right-wing populists and might generate violence from both sides . if , at worst , a terrorist attack were to happen , in particular one that could credibly link refugees – a nationalist-populist reaction would be powerful , potentially weakening the very fabric of german society . as a result , the world has a significant stake in which scenario prevails .
at that point , a democratic transition will most likely require that the army play a more active role in protecting the protesters . what is clear is that the interest of the “ military as an institution ” depends on the army ’s capacity to establish much greater separation from the regime . by contrast , the army ’s decision to allow mubarak loyalists , some riding camels or horses , to charge in cairo ’s tahrir square to attack thousands of anti-government protesters was a classic “ military men ” as governments ” ” move . at that point , a democratic transition will most likely require that the army play a more active role in protecting the protesters . successful political transitions are also helped if more and more citizens come to feel “ own ” protests and the resulting transition .
at the same time , they are clearly operating in close ugandan forces . evidently , american policymakers are increasingly receptive to the potential of international criminal justice to undergird the terms of a new form of global engagement . but do uganda ’s operation , following so closely on the libya intervention , herald a us police role whenever the un or the icc , which , lacking its own police force , relies on its members , and us-level cooperation , provide the judges that are needed ? given america ’s reluctance to join the icc ( or to bring its own tormentors to justice under us courts ) , such a role would be vulnerable to an international and domestic political attack . nevertheless , the extent of american cooperation with the icc has gone beyond even the constructive role that the obama administration has proposed .
one poll found that 19 % of americans think that their incomes put them at the top 1 % of their income distribution – and that 20 % more hope to reach the top 1 % someday . in fact , these are not beliefs conducive to a foundation of social democracy ; they are part of the reason why they still do not . so why do n’t americans sense more alarms in their country ’s rising income inequality ? part of the reason they do n’t is that most americans wo n’t recognize what is happening . deep in the core of american ideology and culture is a constellation of beliefs and attitudes : the belief that the future will be brighter than the present ; that what you accomplish is on their behalf ; that individuals should be counting on themselves , not the state ; that people can cross oceans and mountains to make for themselves a better life ; and that those who succeed do so not through luck and corruption but through preparation and industry .
stockholm – our generation , in particular , has a unique opportunity to do so . setting our minds on it could be the first in human history to leave our children no better than our own : no greenhouse-gas emissions , no poverty , and no loss of biodiversity . that is the course that world leaders set when they convened at the united nations meeting in new york on september 25 to adopt the sustainable development goals ( sdgs ) . they emerged from the largest un summit , the “ rio +20 ” conference in 2012 , followed by the un ’s largest consultation . they emerged from the world ’s largest summit , the “ rio +20 ” conference in 2012 , followed by the un ’s largest consultation .
the german blogger richard gutjahr , for example , has become an object of conspiracy theories and a goal of intensive harassment after being present at two terrorist attacks in two weeks of each other . so the noisiest are frequently rewarded for a megaphone , while less polarizing , less privileged voices are drowned out , even with the provision of smart , nuanced perspectives that truly can enrich public debate . when the algorithm does not do the job of silencing less privileged voices , online trolls often step in , directing hateful , and threatening speech at the whomever they choose . while women and minorities are particularly likely to fall victim to online harassment , anyone could be targeted . the victims of online harassment often respond with self-censorship , and many , with their sense of safety and even self-worth eroded , remove from social media entirely .
i single out america not because it is unique in its neglect , but because it is unique in its capacity to lead . some rich countries do better off outside the american way . africans do n’t vote ; they do n’t buy us goods ; nor do they threaten violence . at the same time , they are simply poor , hungry , and disease-ridden . few rich countries do better than america ’s .
this is because krugman refuses to take seriously keynes ’s crucial distinction between risk and uncertainty . in my opinion , keynes ’s key contribution to economic theory was to underscore the “ extreme precariousness ” of the basis of knowledge upon which our estimates of future yield must be made . krugman is hampered by the fact that he attributes a crash to “ irrationality ” that , as cochrane points out , is no theory . this is because krugman refuses to take seriously keynes ’s crucial distinction between risk and uncertainty . in my opinion , keynes ’s primary contribution to economic theory has been to stress the “ extreme precariousness ” of the base of knowledge upon which our estimates of us must make .
cape town – nowadays , people are too often compelled to choose between doing what is morally right and doing what is economically beneficial . indeed , their options sometimes seem mutually exclusive , making the choices that path to taking exceedingly challenging . sometimes , however , moral rectitude and economic interests merge presents an opportunity that must not be missed . that is the case , from the perspectives of this archbishop and former us finance minister to the world bank ’s response to climate change . the moral imperative is incontrovertible , because the effects of climate change – including extreme weather , temperature changes , and rising sea levels – are felt most keenly by the global poor , who have also benefited the least from the economic activities that they cause .
hallyday was the child of a generation that watched the american gis enter paris , and that invented for itself an american ascendance . hallyday was the child of a generation that watched the american gis enter paris , and that invented for itself an american ascendance . and , on that day , he lamented that his absence seemed like an element of trump , somehow making us forget that he was no longer with us inter alia . abiding in each us by johnny es was johnny that moved us all : youth spend with a traveling act like gautier ’s captain fracasse ; the father , a character out of modiano , who among bouts of drinking , pawned the gifts given to him by his abandoned son . and then there was the ’60s rocker with the eyes of the sad wolf and cheekbones hewn by giacometti , catcher on rye mood , and melancholy hopeless that it seems to have condemned it to live on the fringes of every excess .
of course , it was subject to ups and downs , but it was not subject to financial crises of the type we see each other regularly . the keys to that period of growth and happiness involved a strong social-welfare system and mostly keynesian domestic and foreign economic policies in every large part of the world . above all , every advanced economy pursued policies designed to deliver high wages to ensure high consumption and thus rapid growth . job insecurity back then was mostly unknowable , and mass poverty disappeared . moreover , the post-wwii capitalism had maintained full employment , with unemployment often hovering around 2 % in europe , north america , and japan .
that seems to reflect a stance expressed by cameron and former german chancellor of the exchequer george osborne ’s governing council , that helped to set the stage for the brexit process . in response to the euro crisis , they argued that europe needed more fiscal integration , but without the uk ; there would be no british financial participation in future european savings operations . solidarity ( at least the kind that costs money ) stopped at the english channel . but , like de gaulle ’s declaration and may ’s slogan , churchill ’s statements occupied the language of political ambiguity . the us is interested and the associated , but not absorbed .
what the west can do is apply pressure on iran – and for other governments in the future – to assure and account for the protesters ’ safety . in this crisis , an american president should form a united front with human rights groups that can advise him precisely how to follow up , sustain , and support those iranians who have been or may still be captured by the military , or worse . barack obama says that america “ stands with those supporting the free assembly . ” that will be welcome news to people living under the dictatorial regimes installed and propped up by america , and to opposition leaders and journalists languishing in us-sponsored prisons in those countries for having engaged in mere such a protest . natan sharansky asserted that this tactic – the west ’s tracking and demanding accountability to treat individual internal dissenters – helped break up the soviet union .
closer ties between russia and the european union make sense for similar reasons . indeed , russia should be treated as a great power , implying consultations on major global issues . the west ’s membership in the world trade organization has the potential to strengthen the rule of law , fight corruption , and give russia a stake in better relations with the outside world . there should also be some understanding for what the russians and russians have gone through over the past two decades . losing a country and a special place around the world is the kind of trauma that could lead to the rise of extreme and potentially violent nationalism .
but a consensus has emerged in brazil that the center-left party can neither win nor hard-left visions , and lula 's presidency did n't question that view . the consensus may have reflected the success of lula 's predecessor , fernando henrique cardoso , the relative success of privatization and a liberal market economies around the world - as well as brazil 's growing middle class . whatever the case , for the key leaders of the brazilian left , including rousseff , capitalism became part of the solution , not a fundamental problem . the largest are not always the legal people on which the world bank and development agencies focused ; rather , they are the business risks of a failing or polity that implodes . investors are taking every kind of risk with their lives .
when things can be made , used , broken/worn out , and recycled closer to home , the need for transportation decreases dramatically . to be sure , my diminished cost will be someone else ’s reduced revenues , and not just apple ’s . recycled materials wo n’t need to be shipped to centralized processing centers , and then passed away to factories . products wo n’t have to make it into these factories , and then shipped to customers or cramped centers . one big loser in this world will be freight businesses ( along with junkyards , logistics companies , and centralized recycling operations ) .
london – in the 1960s , the green revolution – which included development high-yielding crop varieties , expanding irrigation infrastructure , and distributing modern fertilizers and pesticides to developing-country farmers – bolstered agricultural production worldwide . yet chronic hunger remains pervasive , particularly in the developing world , plagued most by crop shortages and food-price volatility . surmounting these challenges will be no easy feat . by 2050 , the global human population is projected to exceed nine billion – a staggering 60 % . achieving food security means ensuring that every person in the world has consistent , affordable access to the right nutrients , increased irrigation infrastructure , and a growing prevalence of resource-intensive western-style diets that accompany rising incomes .
indeed , for many years now , domestic critics of erdoğan ’s government have been denouncing what they describe as the regime ’s “ thuzation ” “ under law . ” turkey , not the european union , are currently making its presence felt . europe is to turkey ’s people a principle of moderation ” and a enticement to remain democratic . but , in reality , turkey needs europe as much as europe needs turkey . in reality , turkey needs europe as much as europe needs turkey .
by contrast , experience indicates that governments often struggle to align public spending with underlying or mounting problems , such as public-health threats , until they get into crisis points . even so , government spending on cervical cancer averages about $ 4 billion annually . that is just over 0.5 % of annual us military budgets of roughly $ 718 billion . in fact , last year , ’s 580,000 cancer deaths exceed that of a combined 430,000 fighting deaths , on average , during world war i , world war ii , the korean war , the vietnam war , and the gulf war – the us , the us , russia , russia , japan , russia , and the us . in fact , last year , more people died from cancer in the us than they were in fighting .
i used to believe that denial of saudi complicity in the attacks reflected our own distress with what happened on that dark day . i used to believe that denial of saudi complicity in the attacks reflected our distress with what happened on that dark day . i had the courage to overcome our perceived humiliations and to begin looking deep into our national psyche asking the big question , “ why did the 15 of our young males strike america in so brutal a way ? ” i had hoped that us had the courage to overcome our perceived humiliations and begin looking deep into our national psyche asking the big question , “ why did the 15 of our young males strike america in so brutal a way ? ” dealing with that question is increasingly frustrating for me , having been left behind by plausible explanations . so far , we are no closer than we were after the assault to answer to that question , because we can not even find the high nerve to ask .
moreover , income inequality has widened , with the global phenomenon of rising wealth concentration at the very top very pronounced in many arab countries . while tunisia was an extreme case in a regime furthering the economic interests of the insiders ’ small clique , the pattern has been widespread . top incomes in these countries have resulted largely from political patronage rather than innovation and hard work . that is why an knee-jerk , simplistic “ washington consensus ” prescription ” prescription for more liberalization and privatization is unsuitable for the arab world in 2012 . there is a clear political need for a growth strategy in which inclusion top , not afterthought .
few countries are more interconnected to the postwar order than germany , which , like japan , owes its post-1945 economic resurgence to a rules-based trading system . trump ’s protectionist policies thus call for the entire german economic model , as they have existed since the 1950s . but that is no longer the case , either . germany ’s economy relies heavily on exports , which means that it punches acutely vulnerable to trade barriers and the punitive tariffs imposed by the country ’s major trading partners . indeed , trump ’s recent moves do not just address trade , but also america ’s departure from pax americana itself .
during macron ’s first five-year term , therefore , he should focus on raising france ’s gdp growth to an average of at least 2 % per year and reducing the unemployment rate to less than 6 % . with inequality also rising , many french are rightly agitating that labor is taxed far more than the benefits of capital gains . the simplest way to achieve both goals would be to focus on where france is underperforming relative to other eu countries . france has some of the highest labor costs for the eu ’s hourly employees , and a natural implication is tepid hiring . part of the unemployment challenge is tied to the hidden cost .
in early december , putin signed a 2015 federal budget that foresaw 2 % annual gdp growth and a fiscal deficit amounting to 0.5 % of gdp . but collapsing oil prices , combined with tough economic sanctions imposed by the us and europe by the end of the month , meant that the government predicted a 4 % - of-gdp contraction and annual budget deficits of 3.5 % of gdp , and that , after budget cuts cost 1 % of gdp . based on these figures , it is estimated that , by the end of this year , russia will be spending 70 % of the reserve fund accrued over the past decade , or so when oil prices were high . if low oil prices persist and western economic sanctions remain in place , russia will run out of cash supply by the end of 2016 . nonetheless , putin ’s approval rating remains at around 80 % .
given that libra will take the form of private money connected to a basket of stable major currencies , how could that work in practice ? but , of course , libra is being sold off as much as it does . if argentina ’s people could shift from pesos to a basket of stable currencies , with one touch of their smartphones , would n’t then pour in that safe asset at the first sign of trouble in the domestic economy ? as one facebook executive put it , “ we ’re willing to send money to be as straightforward as sending a text message . ” a standard “ efficient market-based ” analysis does not help us respond that question , because , in perfect markets , such flows would be self-correcting .
the most recent rising euro has also helped hold european long-term interest rates — a key determinant of economic activity — as inflationary expectations deteriorate somewhat in the euro-zone countries . the yield on ten-year german bonds that might have been expected to go higher because of worsening inflationary expectations during this period barely moved . should bush , bernanke , or the new us treasury secretary , henry paulson , cause investors to lose faith in us financial assets at a certain point in time , a rising europe will help shield european interest rates from the consequences . this is a big plus for sustaining economic recovery ; if it comes at least , it is the big plus way . during april , the rise of inflationary expectations , together with the euro ’s appreciation , occurred more or less downward .
of the six larger eu states , only france has a truly well-defined political system . poland ’s euro-skeptic centralism comes close ; but strong regional differences persist , owing to a legacy of the three large and quite different imperial systems that encompassed today ’s poland in the nineteenth century . this political entity is a precise counterpart in the political world to the familiar physical phenomenon of splintering or fissuring . the united kingdom seems older and more stable ; but today scotland is governed by a political party that wants its removal in the union ’s 1707 act of the union , with the future to be determined by the scottish referendum in may 2014 . when stressed , the big surface bifurcates in big chechnya ; but then the breakdown continues into smaller , smaller fragments . italy and germany were nineteenth-century fervor of the colorful variety of small and medium-size political units .
just as we follow our leaders ’ instructions to fight and die because we trust their judgment , we entrust our careers and our money to those who run citigroup and goldman sachs and other countries , because we trust that their leaders ’ behavior will be fair to their staff and clients , and honorable in their business practices . money , then , is about the trust without which no society can function . we do n’t grow up wishing to work for crooks and liars . we believe in newsrooms , because we collectively decide to trust the government when , say , it tells us that a hundred is 100 , not ten or 50 . once that trust breaks , the bad things happen ; so , too , do n’t .
he has created an environment in which demands for radical change have led to compromise , rather than rage , in a sharp contrast with , say , the violent breakup of yugoslavia . likewise , far from fitting the mold of the democratic machine , sanders is working to pull the party back “ to the social democratic left where it belongs . ” like the french and sanders , gorbachev has been an implausible reformer . despite ascending to power with the kgb ’s support , he has failed to surrender his thinking processes to that machine-, in what president vladimir putin clearly has . ultimately , of course , the soviet union ’s ossified structure could not have saved ; but , because in large part to gorbachev ’s fundamental decency , the ussr ’s demise , in 1991 , was comparatively peaceful .
whatever economics , take that route may be harder today than ever before : with so many developing countries becoming vibrant democracies , electorates may sanction governments that accept what was widely viewed as yet another unfair trade deal . those in the developing world who believe that there has been a bargaining history in bad faith have a strong case . unsurprisingly , wealthy countries ’ negotiators throw up big numbers , when describing the gains from even imperfect agreement . those in the developing world who believe that there has been a bargaining history in bad faith have a strong case . america ’s agricultural subsidies , for example , do just that .
princeton – recently , physicists at the large hadron collider ( lhc ) – the world ’s most powerful particle accelerator – located near geneva in the european organization for nuclear research ( cern ) , reported that the celebrated 2012 higgs boson was in fact a higgs boson . four years ago , the doomsayers prediction that the lhc would produce the microscopic black holes that would swallow the earth in a matter of months . of course , these prophets were neither the first nor the last of their species . the latter-day nostrums have provoked widespread fear , not to mention lawsuits , of high-energy particle physics experiments . now the standard model of particle physics is complete , with the exception of one important input : black holes .
stony brook – in 2010 , monetary policy has long played an important role in brazilian politics . during the period of democratization process of the 1980s and 1990s , successive governments attempted to tame the hyperinflation that peaked at 2,477 % in 1993 . today , as central bankers in the developed world fret about the threat of deflation , brazilian policymakers are once again being forced to respond to widespread fears of slowing growth and a return to high inflation . riding on the plan ’s success , its architect , fernando henrique cardoso , the former economy minister , was twice elected president ( from 1994 and 1998 ) underscoring voter concern about price stability . the introduction of the fed ’s “ genuine plan , ” launched in 1994 , managed to suppress annual price growth to an agreed 22 % by the end of that year .
not surprisingly , the atmosphere at this year ’s world economic forum became grim . those who think that globalization , technology , and a market economy will fix the world ’s problems appear subdued . against the backdrop of the sub-prime crisis , disasters at many financial institutions , and the weakening of the stock market , these “ masters of the universe ” seemed less omniscient than they did in a brief while . and it was n’t only the bankers who got at davos earlier this year , but also their regulators , the central bankers , as well . most of the chastened of all , the big bankers were those who took on them .
diamond has discovered that ultimately politicians of trump ’s bankers – at least in the uk . now , given the profound sovereign-debt crisis in the eurozone periphery , government defaults are threatening to take down big banks . the european central bank has gone so far as to provide massive amounts of liquidity ” financing to banks that they use to purchase even more government debt . that holds down interest rates on that very short term debt but creates even bigger potential losses in the event of potential default . it is true that banks and politics are deeply intertwined in all of the advanced economies , including the us and europe .
despite low average growth rates , income in the bottom quintile of the population grew by more than 6 % annually in the 2000 ’s , owing largely to cost-effective social policies . even so , brazil has a long way to go . for starters , anemic investment in traditional infrastructure since the 1980 ’s has become increasingly heavy drag on tfp , which contributes to wasted waste and inefficiencies in the existing production systems . this could be addressed by fine-tuning the division of labor in infrastructure investment and governance between the public and the private sector , with the goal of crowding in the latter . provided that the government is pursuing a comprehensive poverty-reduction strategy – including improved access to health care , financial services , and education – brazil ’s overall productivity should improve in the years ahead .
iran , russia , syria , ukraine , and a handful of african countries comprise the rest . according to the latest data running through july or august for most countries , there are “ only ” 14 cases of high inflation ( a red line in that figure ) . the share of countries recording outright deflation in consumer price prices ( the greek line ) is actually higher in 2015 than it was among countries that experiencing double-digit annual inflation ( 7 % ) . iran , russia , syria , ukraine , and a handful of african countries comprise the rest . in the period since the 1980s oil shocks of the 1980 ’s until the early 1980s , nearly two-thirds of the country ’s countries have recorded annual inflation rates above 10 % .
for the most part , quick fixes that they have imposed so far have not been very successful . on the european continent , this has been going on since the crash of the 1970s . overcrowded classes in often lack of physical surroundings without the needed machinery have led to ever longer-lasting periods of study , worsening quality degrees , and a lot of adversity among both students and professors . in the absence of sufficient funds , one may simply allow universities to deteriorate . there is , of course , an alternative to higher education .
only the bloodshed of war , sad to say , can seal such a diplomatic bargain . two million kosovars suffered from milosevic 's rule in every aspect of their lives , from basic security to an education . for years , they tried to articulate their grievances through peaceful means . as a political activist in the closing days of yugoslavia , i tried to build on the philosophy of nonviolence , leading demonstrations and other forms of peaceful forms of dissent . the need for kosovo to free itself from milosevic 's grip on power was so apparent for a half-century .
the phenomenon took many forms , including the muslim brotherhood , founded in 1928 . at the same time , nation-building efforts along secular lines reflected concerns among egyptian president gamal abdel nasser ’s pan-arabism and the syrian ba’athparty , the resulting establishment of the united arab republic , the union between egypt and syria , which lasted from 1958 to 1961 . a half-century later , the arab world ’s homegrown revolts were the result of neither political tendency , instead reflecting widespread popular rejection of dysfunctional nor corrupt authoritarian governments . yet , with syria mired in a brutal civil war that claimed more than 130,000 lives already , libya on the verge of collapse , and egypt returning power to the army and proscribing the muslim brotherhood , tunisia was the only success there . tunisia adopted its new constitution on january 27 , thereby clearing the way for what will be the most secular and fairest elections in any of the region ’s countries .
berlin – the way we consume in the industrialized world is unhealthy , unjust , and unsustainable . worldwide , 300 million tons of meat is produced every year , and the united nations food and agriculture organization estimates that the annual figure will rise to 455 million tons by 2050 if demand continues to grow at its current pace . such vast amounts of meat can be produced only on an industrial scale and at high social , political , and ecological costs . far too much of the meat we consume is produced under questionable ecological , ethical , and social conditions . and now , our industrial model for meat production is being exported to the global south , especially india and china , where meat consumption is rising among these countries ’ emerging middle class .
cambridge – for some time now , the four horsemen of us macroeconomic policymaking in recent decades have been taxation , regulation , trade , and infrastructure . having studied the first in detail , i found tax cuts to be a positive contributor to economic growth . while i considered the second area in less detail , the evidence suggests that regulation is , at best , only a minor contributor to growth . a third area exists only under rhetoric : an infrastructural us infrastructure program currently has little to do with a macroeconomic policy repertoire . the fourth area exists only under us rhetoric : its infrastructural program on its own is still not some piece of a macroeconomic policy repertoire .
as gordon notes , a protracted productivity dividend associated with urbanization has taken hold , a trend that could continue for at least another decade in china . but there will come a time when this tailwind subsides and china begins to converge on the so-called frontier of the advanced economies . without powerful innovations , sustaining high productivity growth will turn into an uphill struggle . at that point , china will face the same productivity challenges confronting america and others . chinese policymakers ’ new focus on innovation-led growth appears to recognize this risk .
but the plan was projected to depress economic activity even further , and has failed to establish an appropriate basis for calculating how much debt restructuring puerto rico needs . the sad reality is that the opportunity to right puerto rico ’s fiscal boat has not yet been seized . on the contrary , the us oversight board recently certified a new fiscal plan , and an agreement with holders of bonds issued by the puerto rican interest fund corporation ( cofina ) that could place israel in a debt straitjacket indefinitely . at $ 17.8 billion , the reserves for cofina bonds ( which are backed by future sales-tax revenues ) account for more than one-third of global debt under a new fiscal plan . and the cofina deal is itself part of a larger debt-restructuring effort that is based on an unrealistic assessment of the commonwealth ’s economic conditions .
ten years on , what impact principles have on displaced people ’s lives ? we have raised awareness of the displaced ’s plight , brought about changes in government policies and raised billions of dollars in response to their basic needs . humanitarian efforts continue to be strengthened , including through a rapid new funding mechanism for financing , the un ’s central emergency response fund . this , in turn , has helped to save countless lives , which is a first step that is needed . here , the achievements are notable , if inadequate .
likewise , andrew carnegie , the wealthiest man of veblen ’s era , was blunt in her moral judgments . “ those who learned rich , ” ” he is often quoted , as saying “ the dies is disgraced . ” we can adapt that judgment to a person or woman who wields $ 30,000 watch or buy similar luxury goods , like an estimated $ 115,000 handbag . wearing the watch , which costs 200 times more than one that does a better job of keeping time tells anything else , even while it wears off people who do not control a relatively poor country . essentially , such a person says ; “ i am either extraordinarily ignorant or just getting selfish .
he shows that both “ total ” and “ average ” answers have paradoxical or counter-intuitive implications . but then , so does every other answer that has been proposed since parfit revived the problem and other philosophers started offering their own solutions . in this monumental work , totaling approximately 1,900 pages , parfit challenges the idea – almost universally assumed by economists and by the many philosophers from david hume onward – that the role of reason is to tell us how to get whatever we wanted but not to let us know what to want . on the other hand , parfit argued , desires can be irrational . if reason and those could be easily served by three separate books , on what matters really is : the first two volumes of power had been published in 2011 , while no third , in the press , when parfit died , happened .
by acknowledging mental health and wellness issues at work , we can make a difference in our homes , schools , and communities alike . seeking mental health inequity should be as routine and unspectacular as seeking treatments for high blood pressure , from diabetes , or a cardiac state . that is often the problem in lower-income communities , where populations may be at a larger risk of pathology , and often faces the highest barriers to obtaining care , partly owing to the lack of specialized resources available in wealthier areas . in addition , we must reduce mental health inequity , frequently ignored question . there are some innovative approaches to tackling this problem , such as the zimbabwe ’s friendship bench and i look forward to learning more about that project from one of its interlocutors in davos .
experts argue that the odds of a terrorist attack , owing to dubai ’s takeover , are small . should the damage inflicted by a terrorist attack also be small , there would be no problem . however , the harm inflicted by an attack might be tremendous , because the ports are thought to be one of the few ways that the terrorists might smuggle nuclear weapons in america . the american public understands this , even if their president does not . because of it , americans can no longer afford to take even the shred of chances with their ports , the consequences of mistake being too staggering to contemplate .
yet the four political developments that have bedeviled the international security agenda in recent years are likely to transform chicago into a high-level summit in its own right . first , revolutions in the arab world , and nato ’s military intervention in libya , have re-focused the alliance ’s attention on the middle east and north africa . second , the international financial crisis will have enormous implications for nato members ’ defense budgets . third , in a speech last june , outgoing us secretary of defense robert gates revived the debate about transatlantic burden of burden-sharing and solidarity within the alliance . finally , the first nato summit that will take place in the united states in 13 years is taking place not only in the election year , but also in president barack obama ’s hometown .
we believe that the answer to both questions is a resounding yes . we believe that the answer to both questions is a resounding yes . together , they manage vast regions of our planet , including more than 80 % of the farmland in sub-saharan africa and asia . yet smallholders can not be ignored when they draw on climate-change solutions : the world ’s half-billion small farms account for 60 % of global agriculture and provide up to 80 % of food supplies in the developing world . can we really count on these farmers , many of which are desperately poor , to take a leadership role in addressing their own twin challenges of food security and ecological sustainability ?
one such reform would be to expand the country ’s access to foreign investors . the financial sanctions that followed russia ’s forced reunification with crimea ” in 2014 intensified russia ’s isolation further , as did the country ’s own move to retaliate : a series of sweeping trade restrictions , including outright bans on food imports from the european union and the us . one such reform would be to expand its access to foreign investors . over the past decade , foreigners have been barred from undertaking investment in more than 40 industries designated as “ critical to national security ” ” by the putin government . this prohibition , while beneficial to industrial insiders , has diminished russia ’s access to the financial markets and , more critical , to new technologies that follow international financial flows . lifting these constraints would not only provide an immediate boost to the economy , but also boost long-term gdp growth .
in the 1990s , the uk was a proponent of eu membership for cee countries at a time when leaders in france and germany remained extremely hesitant about eu enlargement . but the uk ’s support had a catch : british leaders , reluctant to embrace the eu ’s long-stated goal of an “ ever-closer union ” – which implies political unification and shared national and federal sovereignty – made no secret of its desire to use widening eu membership to prevent the deepening of european integration . over the course of negotiations with eu leaders ahead of the referendum , british prime minister david cameron obtained an opt-outs as part of the eu ’s decision to move toward ever-closer union . should he prevail in the brexit referendum and persuade voters to remain , it sends a dangerous signal to illiberal politicians in eastern europe . the cee countries ’ relationship with the uk has always been somewhat fraught .
and workers of the future will require training in ethics , helping them to navigate a world in which human beings ’ value can no longer be taken for granted . the entrepreneurial majors should study the economic and political history to avoid becoming blind determinists . for starters , economists need to learn from engineering students because it will work to build future workforces . and economists need to learn from engineering students , because it will work to build future workforces . and law students should focus on the intersection of big data and human rights , to help them navigate a world in which the value of human beings can no longer bear for granted .
in my experience , a 99 % of all censorship occurs with the writers and the producers themselves . severe breaches can result from reprimands or dismissals . sporadic complaints and alerts above enable them to develop intuitive sense for the boundaries of acceptable content , thereby creating shows that they are free from offending material from the outset . in effect , the system has become largely self-regulating . the top-down hierarchy is an autocratic and arbitrary one ; the lower levels have little collaborative input , and no proper appeals .
tokyo – japanese prime minister shinzo abe has now decided to prolong the diet ’s current session on 95 days until september 27 , making for the longest continuous session in the japanese parliament ’s postwar history . abe ’s actions in the diet come in the heels of his performance at the recent g7 summit in germany , where he broke with japanese tradition . but the summit showed that japan no longer plans to confront the diplomatic sidelines . the reason is clear : abe is determined to pass a set of national security bills that will allow a reinterpretation of japan ’s constitution that enables the country to play an even stronger role not only in modernizing its own security , but also in advancing world peace . for the previous 39 years , japanese representatives to the g-7 focused on economic discussions at such meetings , content to stay largely silent as the industrialized world ’s other leaders surveyed political hot spots and recommended action , or , more often , inaction .
to underline this , trump ’s chancellor of the exchequer announced that nato member states will “ renew the necessary dialogue and address specific issues more urgently , such as nato enlargement … and i was able to reach agreement with president bill clinton , president chirac , and prime minister major that we now refrain from acting strongly on the important nato-enlargement matter in some framework in order to create fiat acpli . ” in february 1996 , kohl urged that nato placed enlargement at hold until russia and the us presidential elections passed . that visit yielded yet another appeal not to rush nato enlargement . he instructed his ministers not to discuss the matter publicly , and he suggested that talks not be left in the hands of nato machinery alone . in germany ’s parliament , the chancellorship announced that yeltsin after his operation would “ renew the necessary dialogue and address specific issues more urgently , such as nato enlargement … and i was able to reach agreement with president bill clinton , president chirac , and prime minister matter . ”
in this world without utopia , individual freedom is the supreme value . likewise , when it comes to human consciousness , these changes are triggering change . the result is a “ post-utopian ” litany of values that involve a stronger emphasis on individual freedom and individual responsibility . but , as with any change of such magnitude , there are holdouts . only this , fogel believes , can account for recent longevity trends , the body size , the durability of vital organs , and chronic diseases .
london – the gravity of the euro crisis has finally sunk in . european leaders must now aim to preserve not only the single currency , but also the bargains of european financial integration . london – the gravity of the euro crisis has finally sunk in . the stakes could not have been higher , either . european leaders must now aim to preserve not just the single currency , but also the bargains of european financial integration . so far , many questions have been answered on offer ; implementation will be at least as challenging .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere around the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime ; but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . washington , dc , while much of the developed world is properly worried about myriad privacy outrages in the hands of big tech and demanding – and securing – for individuals a “ right to be forgotten , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” many globally present a very different question : what about the right to be perceived ?
drug-related violence consumed untold figures in afghanistan , burma , colombia , the us , and mexico . the swiss federal public-health bureau has also overseen an experiment in hiv prevalence to people living with opiate dependency for significant periods . the swiss implemented methadone programs , and , to prevent the spread of hiv , created needle exchanges , including in prisons and the established safe injection of rooms on a massive scale . health professionals took the lead in appointing the us government – through the mechanisms of outright democracy – to shift its focus from arresting and punishing drug users for a public-health policy built on the scientific evidence on what works . the swiss re-examined their government ’s drug policies with a pragmatic eye .
washington , dc – the impact that groundbreaking technological advances such as artificial intelligence ( uber ) will have on the functioning of us economies and labor markets has long been a hot topic . but jerry kaplan ’s recent book human need not apply : a guide for wealth and work in the age of artificial intelligence has impressed me with the true size of the socioeconomic stakes . one relatively well-known example of the digital revolution ’s impact on the workings of markets is its ability to earn massive returns in high-speed trading by being the microsecond “ ahead ” of all else . another is the capacity for price discrimination by new electronic market makers like uber , which is doing just every cent of the old consumer surplus ” of microeconomic theory . soon , a new kind of strengthened uber might emerge , integrating car , bus , ships , airplane , and hotel rooms into a single super-app .
some 2.1 billion people worldwide lack access to safe , readily accessible water at home , and more than twice that of many – a whopping $ 4.5 billion – lack safe sanitation , severely undermining health outcomes , and fueling rivers of river pollution . with an increasing share of the world ’s population – including many of the same people – feeling the effects of environmental degradation and climate change firsthand , finding solutions that simultaneously advance environmental , water provision , and health could not become more vital . global health and conservation professionals must work more closely to identify those solutions – and persuade policymakers to pursue them . in a world of scarce resources , policymakers must prioritize their investments , including by differentiating from desirable solutions . to that end , finding ways to identify and maximize societal complementarity is vitally important .
this is an unwelcome development for software providers , whose business model is based on licensing and annual maintenance fees , not usage of electricity . indeed , large firms in nearly every field are vulnerable , because firms are becoming better equipped , more competitive , and capable , like larger firms , of reaching buyers and users everywhere . companies in every industry today must invest in understanding new technologies to prepare for opportunities , or mount a efficient defense quickly . indeed , ceos and other top executives need a technologists , or at least technology-savvy , and continuously evaluating how innovations impact the status quo will affect the status quo specifically their profit pools . this is , in fact , an unwelcome development for software providers , whose business model is based on licensing and annual maintenance fees , not usage of electricity . true , ceos and other top managers need technologists or at least technology-savvy , and they continuously assess how innovations affect the status quo , specifically , their profit pools .
by the end of 2013 , the share had fallen to 13.5 % . while the developing world had another 1.7 billion more people , 209 million fewer were starving . over the next year , the world ’s 193 governments will come together to determine the new global targets that were expected to be met by 2030 . the task amounts to that generation ’s greatest opportunity to translate high aspirations into concrete targets . over the last 22 years , the world has succeeded in feeding nearly two billion more people adequately – no small feat .
fifteen people were killed , and many more injured in what is recalled as the peterloo massacre . fifteen people were killed , and many more injured in what is recalled as the peterloo massacre . ultimately , the reform act of the 1832 repealed the rotten boroughs and expanded the franchise for the new middle class ( the working class and women would have had to wait ) . given the recent recall of the violent french revolution , the british elite reluctantly agreed to pursue democratizing reforms . the greed and corruption of that era were satirized in 1873 by mark twain and charles dudley warner in their gilded age : the narrative of the day .
but , thanks to farage – and the faragism who picked up over the governing conservative party ( ukip ) – an act of economic self-harm that an apparent runs counter to the national interest portrays the apotheosis of british patriotism . moderate leaders everywhere must now respond not only to the economic discontent of the millions who are losing out , but also to cultural pessimism and politicians ’ dismissal of politicians like being “ in it only for themselves ” giving succor for populist nationalism promoted by trump cheerleader stephen bannon and his ilk . what makes things worse in britain these days is a series of gross mistakes about the political verdict during and after the 2016 referendum campaign . while the ousted remain flipped an economic campaign centered on the fear of job losses from exiting the eu , the victorious side has waged a culture war by stirring up fears about immigration and telling the need for patriotic britons to take back control . narrow-minded nationalism is not simply a british disease : across the west , much of the public views globalization as a leaderless , lacks a human face , and akin to an uncontrolled runaway train .
every firm and business association must decide the best strategies and tactics to pursue in their countries . a survey of existing laws and regulations has found that many are contradictory and overlapping . the ande has proposed the creation of the new court by amending the constitution . it has been successful , owing to strong public support for the fight against corruption . every firm and business association must decide the best strategies and tactics that contain conflicts and duplications .
new york – one year ago , everyone gathered in the streets of kyiv knew what the us stood up against : a corrupt government that sought to command life and labor , and to dispose of state assets , at its will . to the extent that formal legal rights existed , no court could be counted on to enforce such rights when our rulers viewed their own interests as challenged . in evicting that regime , we believed that this form of absolutism was coming to an end . instead , those who have benefited from regime = s corruptions insisted that their privileges to the possessions stolen were inviolate . how did ukraine achieve this state of cynicism ?
one community was provided with continuous access to a micronutrient and protein supplement called atole . another community nearby had the same program , except that the micronutrient supplement was provided without a protein . they stayed in school longer , learned more , scored higher on cognitive tests in adulthood , and were more likely to be employed in higher-paying , skilled jobs . moreover , at least in the country ’s rural regions , health workers visited maternal during pregnancy and the provision of free medical services . for children receiving atole , the risk of stunting fell more than one-half .
rather than blaming iliescu for the shambles in which he left the country , the coalition members blamed each other for one another . the ministers acted like adversaries rather than partners . from day one , the coalition was riven by feuds . such squabbling seems to be a postcommunist malady . poland , hungary , even russia : in all three , infighting among reformers allowed the political heirs to the communists to reclaim power . such squabbling seems to be a postcommunist malady .
though the economy was at full employment , they rebelled against the status quo in the name of the dubious utopias inspired by fidel castro ’s cuba and mao ’s china . in this sense , the yellow vest uprising is not unlike the french brexit in france , in which it amounts to the act of shooting oneself in the foot . the difference between then and now is that those taking to the streets to protest against macron ’s proposed fuel-tax increase are animated not by utopia but even by despair . whereas the british have resorted to the ballot box , the french have adopted a mix of barricades , marches , and stone throwing . whereas the british have resorted to the ballot box , the french have adopted a mix of barricades , marches , and stone throwing .
what strikes me most , then , is to see , even then , the beginnings of tribal conflicts and the upcoming contest among islamists to outdo one another in fundamentalist purity . like it , she feels that she has been faithful to her most cherished values and beliefs . she recalls everything and regrets nothing , too . she feels that , in acting as it has , she has been faithful to her most cherished values and beliefs . and there is no question that the west , responding to the arab league ’s entreaty to intervene , avoided a replay of srebrenica in north africa .
indeed , though china ’s charm offensive is very recent , its contours are already bright . in the last six months , the us has abandoned its four-decade-old engagement policy with china , embracing a eu containment strategy . confronting an escalating geopolitical contest with america , china is scrambling to win friends in the region . as numerous asian countries ’ largest trading partner , china will offer attractive trade terms to its neighbors , much as it has done with singapore . the most prominent feature is trade .
london – “ shorting ” is a tactic well known among the finance cognoscenti . it means betting against an asset with borrowed money in the expectation of making the profit when its value goes down . a speculator can “ short an ” government by borrowing its debt at its present price , in the hope of selling it later at the lower price and pocketing the difference . for example : on january 1 , 2010 , i think to myself that the game will soon run up for the greeks . i borrow , at face value , against the € 10 million of the greek government ’s 2016 bond , which is then trading at € 0.91 , from goldman sachs for six months .
jordan ’s diverse tribal composition was reflected in newly established web sites , some of which had been formed with tacit support and even funding – from security agencies or other formal or political groups . taking advantage of the news media ’s implicit authority , they published any potentially harmful rumor concerning individuals or groups with the means and influence , then offered to remove the story in exchange for payment advertisement or outright cash payment . in response to such extortionary practices , king abdullah ii decried “ character assassination ” on the online news media and demanded that the government establish a regulatory framework for this unruly new sector . indeed , the lack of constraints allowed dubious journalistic practices to flourish . jordan ’s implicit tribal composition reflected newly established web sites , some of which were formed with tacit support and even funding – from security agencies or other formal or political groups .
the poison of terrorism has now tore up the un ’s humanitarian work , with the tragic bombing of its iraqi mission ’s headquarters in the us . dozens of innocent people have been killed , including one of the world ’s most accomplished peacemakers , sergio vieira de mello . predictably , president bush has again made his determination to wage war on terrorism . yet the bombing raises a set of political questions that elicit the answers . other us leaders have declared that the un should not abandon its mission .
but they are indeed illegal occupiers because russia ’s decision to grant russian passports so that these regions ’ residents attests . to the extent that most of the inhabitants of abkhazia and south ossetia have ever given russian citizenship , the acknowledgment of those two regions ’ sovereignty would be entirely fictitious , and indeed an interim measure on the path toward their full annexation of russia . now russia is threatening to recognize the independence of abkhazia and south ossetia if the west recognizes kosovo ’s serbian province as an independent nation . to enhance russia ’s political influence over the georgian separatist regions , gazprom , without taking the difficulty of asking for permission from georgian ’s democratically elected leaders , has begun constructing a nord stream gas-pipeline connecting russia and south ossetia directly . though the absence of a break with the gas supply from tbilisi to south ossetia has not happened , that step is needed for the kremlin to ensure even more integrating that georgian region into russia ’s economic system .
back then , german bankers and other bosses deluded themselves in thinking that they could control their country ’s vulgar new chancellor . and they were convinced that , despite hitler ’s strange behavior and appearance , he remained the best defense against communism . sure , they say , trump may come a bit too far with the chinese on trade , but at least he has been asking them the right questions to do so . the sad reality is that many of today ’s elites seem to have learned nothing from history and thought and act as if interests and values were totally disconnected from one another in the real world . so long as trump does business , they appear unafraid that he is the single biggest threat to america ’s soul and values and to its image and interests abroad .
the industry ’s revenues have more than quadrupled since 2006 , even as europe ’s overall economy has stagnated . the eu ’s privacy crackdown risks undermining all of this . not only creates administrative burdens through additional cost and bureaucratic hassles ; it also raises the real possibility that the new rules will undermine the business model of many of europe ’s most prominent online companies . even more worryingly , this would open the door for provisions to outlawing the benign , low-risk data mining that drives online advertising . online advertising allows eu citizens with access to information , educational material , commerce channels , and entertainment sites without paying for them directly ; and the amount being spent in europe is rising fast .
today , bloody good period donates sanitary products – including pads and tampons , as well as diapers and toiletries – to more than a dozen uk resources centers for asylum-seekers each month . for example , a joint soas-oxford study on menstruation in uganda found that adolescent girls often miss school , owing to their lack of access to clean sanitary products . but , when reusable sanitary pads and education on menstruation were given to girls in just eight schools , attendance rose by an average of more than 17 % of the global-health community must work together to address women and girls ’ menstrual needs everywhere ; no one-size-fits-all solution to this global problem is possible . when programs are developed in conjunction with rigorous investigation , the effect can be dramatic . today , bloody good period donates sanitary products – including pads and tampons , as well as diapers and toiletries – to more than a dozen uk export centers for asylum-seekers every month .
he has already backed off twice : once in july 2012 , after abandoning his effort , under pressure from the army ’s supreme council , to reinstate the elected parliament ; and once he attempted to remove egypt ’s public prosecutor by making egypt ’s ambassador to a holy see . yet , for many revolutionaries , there have been alternative ways to sack the tainted prosecutor and purify the judiciary . morsi ’s “ constitutional declaration ” was a decisive – albeit undemocratic , polarizing , and therefore politically costly – step to break the impasse . the new law regulating the judiciary , for example , has been a demand for the revolution from its earliest weeks . for morsi , the dilemma was that the constitutional court could strike down the rule of law , thereby obfuscating the effort meaningless .
moreover , it amounts to betraying america ’s longstanding commitment to uphold a rules-based monetary system that discourages competitive currency devaluation . its nuclear-posture review proposes using nuclear strikes in response to non-nuclear threats , and deploying new “ low-yield ” nuclear devices to deliver through iran ’s nuclear-bomb equivalent in power to those that destroyed hiroshima and nagasaki in august 1945 . in us foreign policy , us secretary of state rex tillerson endorsed the revival of the monroe doctrine – a nineteenth-century pretense of american primacy in the western hemisphere that aims to uphold its european competitors – in central and south america , in order to curb china ’s rising influence . the trump administration has also unveiled a new , more aggressive nuclear policy . tillerson ’s nostalgia for 1823 has not been shared south of the us border , where , as one mexican commentator put it , the monroe doctrine that he has served to justify gringo interventions , ” and where china ’s increasing engagement is viewed as an american counterweight .
unless they are backed by strong institutional structures at all levels , such measures will prove futile in managing capital inflows . in other emerging markets , too , the fundamental challenge will be to ensure that all macroeconomic and structural policies advance common goals . policymakers in both advanced and emerging-market countries should focus on the underlying failures that are destabilizing their economies and impeding growth , rather than attempting to treat symptoms through monetary policy or capital controls . at the same time , the governance structures of multilateral institutions like the international monetary fund need to be reformed to advance their legitimacy in emerging markets . otherwise , such institutions will remain ineffective in confronting the collective problems associated with macroeconomic-policy spillovers and , in the case of provision of insurance against crises .
though the challenges facing the middle class are well documented , america ’s leaders have largely failed to recognize fully the struggles of middle-class households , much less undertake effective countermeasures . the economic challenges facing the developed-country middle class are largely the result of two factors : rapid white ’s losses – and blue-collar routine jobs for automation and a shift of middle - and lower-value-added jobs to countries with lower labor costs . the latter pattern depressed income and wage growth not only in the tradable sector , but also in the non-tradable service sector , owing to the spillover from displaced labor . the result was surplus labor conditions in the middle – and lower-middle-income ranges , not dissimilar to surplus labor in early-stage developing countries , where it suppresses income growth ( for a while ) , even as the economy expands . a fall in labor bargaining power and falling real minimum wages may have contributed to income polarization as well , though these are probably secondary factors .
zurich – finland ’s central bank governor , olli rehn , has repeatedly reiterated his call for the european central bank to conduct a long-overdue review of its policy framework . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime ; but it does not augur all-out war . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to america ’s interests elsewhere around the world . the upcoming leadership change of an institution – with christine lagarde , the international monetary fund ’s managing director from 2011 , probably succeeding mario draghi as president – provides an important opportunity to heed that call .
for decades , europe constituted the world ’s most successful , stable , and predictable region , a space in which history seemed to have everything but ended . such scenarios were unimaginable until relatively recently . yet a dramatic change has come for europe , and it has now come to be felt . the goal of making the continent peaceful , whole and free has largely realized . one factor is vladimir putin ’s russia ’s willingness and ability to use military force , economic coercion , and cyber manipulation to advance its agenda .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . batang toru is just one of many planned infrastructure projects worldwide that are officially considered environmentally sound , despite offering grave environmental risks . for example , construction is almost complete on a rail line through kenya ’s renowned nairobi national park , despite public outrage over an “ incomplete and incompetent ” environmental impact assessment . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
for the ecb , this generates an especially serious challenge . after all , unlike in other central banks , it must account for the preferences of 19 sovereign governments , with little to no structural or fiscal-policy coordination . in many ways , these actions succeeded : monetary expansion played a major role in pushing the economy back away from the brink . yet , over time , central banks ’ capacity to influence the real economy declined . today , and for the foreseeable future , domestic inflation is increasingly affecting global , rather than localized , trend and financial ( in ) stability and fiscal policy far more influential than monetary policy .
looking at a fast-growing city like houston , texas , we can see the real impact of the urban heat island . in august , temperatures there climbed 12.5 oc above the surrounding countryside , reaching a 40oc , a scorching heat that affects not only the sea region , but also cover some 8,000 square kilometers . today , the fastest-growing urban cities are in asia , too . looking at a fast-growing city like houston , texas , we can see the real impact of the urban heat island . there are an even more dramatic increase in tokyo , too .
a growing minority began to pursue intense physical activity not in fields or factories , but in leisure settings . at the same time , gyms became new sources of community ; most at the beginning of the year . and , as coworkers began to exercise together , enlightened employers came to see such recreation as a rewarding source of physical and mental well-being . the sweat of one brow was no longer associated with productive work , but with consumption – often conspicuous consumption . some people saw these changes occurring in the first place and worried about them .
the eu ’s refugee relocation scheme has proved particularly divisive . hungarian prime minister viktor orbán has declared that he will hold a referendum on what is proposed quotas . some , such as the danish people ’s party , wish to follow the united kingdom ’s lead and hold a vote on eu membership . others want to escape the eurozone , block the transatlantic trade and investment partnership ( ttip ) with the united states , or restrain labor mobility . according to the european council on foreign relations , at least 32 referenda are being demanded in 18 countries across the eu .
from the start of his presidency , obama ’s defense of the liberal trade regime has been deficient . he has repeatedly said that us exports are good for america : they create jobs . but us exports are other nations ’ imports , so obama ’s argument amounts to telling others to lose their jobs . what is needed is a reminder that us imports are also good : it can surely ask its audience to think of jobs in us ups of equipment aircraft , freight trains , and trucks carrying imports into the american interior . the main problem , however , is that obama has been unable to confront and put to rest , america ’s fear-fueled hostility to trade .
usury ( making money out of money ) was an offense against god . it was not until the eighteenth century that greed became morally respectable . it was now viewed as healthily promethean to turn wealth into money , putting it to work to earn more money , because by doing that one benefited humanity . this inspired the american way of life , where money always speaks . an end to capitalism means simply the end of the urge .
instead of focusing on the treatment that works , the polish government chooses to give priority to long-term rehabilitation centers located in the depths of the rural areas that have little , if anything , if any , to do with evidence-based medicine . this pattern persists across central and eastern europe , where eu governments have also chosen to imprison drug users . addressing drug use through criminalization and rehabilitation centers will do nothing to curb demand ; nonetheless , with usage rates having failed to fall . by driving users underground , they criminalization contributes to a deepening public-health crisis . poland is also choosing to treat even the smallest amount of drugs as criminal , as demonstrated by , say , 60 % of people sentenced for a drug possession in poland as a drug smokers .
frankfurt – the european central bank is at the center of a big , risky experiment . its benchmark interest rates have remained near zero for the next six years . crisis management has resulted in large market distortions , with some segments of ’ performance no longer strongly explainable by fundamental economic data . the unintended consequences of such a policy become increasingly visible – and will become increasingly tangible with america ’s federal reserve ’s exit from post-2008 ultra-loose monetary policy . meanwhile , us financial markets are awash in liquidity , and the third is now running close to zero .
in the indian ocean , nato is working with the european union , and many others to police high sea-lanes are threatened by us pirates . and , in countries around the world , it performs tasks like de-mining , disaster relief , advising on how to bring a military force under democratic control , and working closely with the un to prevent harm to children . nato is developing its ballistic-missile defense capability to protect its european populations and territories against its grave , mounting threat . the threats have already changed and become more global . the alliance has evolved into a true security-management enterprise , one that is flexible , efficient , and cost-effective .
china ’s dependence on fossil fuels has left it in a profound hole , but its leaders are determined to climb out . meanwhile , the trump administration is trying to turn back the clock , by betting on the resuscitation of dying – and deadly – the fossil-fuel industry . meanwhile , the trump administration is trying to turn back the clock , by betting on the resuscitation of dying – and deadly – the fossil-fuel industry . describing the shift to electric vehicles as a job killer , trump has advocated an end to federal subsidies that encourage domestic development , manufacture , and purchase , such as the us national consumer tax , such as the $ 7,500 federal consumer tax credit . in order to encourage the sales , buyers are exempted from sales and excise taxes ( $ 6,000 – $ 10,000 for a vehicle ) .
it would , for example , necessitate calculating the fiscal equivalent of a regulatory ceiling . furthermore , a tax would likely have regressive distributional consequences , hurting the poor countries most at the expense of the tax . a measure may also invite countries like the united states to retaliate with distortionary measures , making it somewhat perilous . allowing it to be non-discriminatory would thus enhance global welfare and be compatible with the rules of the world trade organization . but , in practice , calculating an appropriate tax would be extremely difficult .
ideally , such cooperation would take place within the eu ’s institutional framework . eurozone countries , together with others , willing to join the eu in the future ( the ecb plus ” ) might simply decide to use legal means that they have already available to enhance cooperation . if all eurozone members participated , article 136 of the treaty on the functioning of the eu could benefit from their action.the extent of that provision – which says , “ the [ european ] council shall … measure measures specific to [ europe ’s ] member states , ” and that “ only [ european ] member states … shall take part in voting ” ” ” ” ” – is wide . moreover , article 138 would enable unified eurozone representation in the international monetary fund and the world bank . the group could then expand cooperation to three other policy areas : greece .
for example , some ban supporters argued that us circumcision violates article 5 of iceland ’s universal declaration of human rights ( udhr ) , which states that “ no one is subject to torture , or a cruelest , inhumane , or degrading treatment or punishment ” ” ” ” . for his part , imam ahmad seddeeq ’s islamic cultural center countered that circumcision is an integral part of muslim belief , and that gunnarsdóttir ’s bill amounts to “ a contravention [ of ] religious freedom . ” and agnes m. sigurðardóttir , a bishop of iceland , warned that a ban would effectively transform judaism and islam into “ criminalized religions , ” ” ” ” because anyone practicing circumcision could be subject to six years in prison . complicating matters further , both sides are basing their arguments on human rights . gunnarsdóttir accepts that “ everyone has the right to believe in what they want ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” but , insisting , “ children ’s rights come above the right to believe .
entanglement may alter the cost-benefit calculation of a major state like china , but it probably has little effect on a state like north korea , which is weakly embedded in the world economy . likewise , they should pay attention to entanglement mechanisms of entanglement and norms . but policy analysts can not limit themselves to classic instruments of nuclear deterrence , penalty , and denial , owing to the possibility of deterrence and dissuasion in cyberspace . nevertheless , policymakers can not limit themselves to classic instruments of nuclear deterrence , sanctions , and denial , owing to the possibility of deterrence and dissuasion in cyberspace . but “ persistent engagement ” can , in such a difficult scenario , aid deterrence .
here , the eu summit in december was an important step forward in the direction of deepening political union and strengthening governance among the eurozone ’s member states . but more will be needed to restore financial stability , for example , enlarging the european financial stability facility ’s total firepower . while we want the eu to emerge stronger from the crisis , it must also strike a better balance between austerity and pro-growth policies , because , with the absence of growth and higher employment , europe ’s problems can not be solved . answering a stricter and more rigorous stability pact is also the imperative for more integration . more important , the eu must tie its economic strategies to a long-term competitiveness that ultimately determines the value-added embedded in goods and services .
shadow banking in china is dominated by lending to higher-risk borrowers like local governments , property developers , and small and medium-size enterprises ( smes ) . ultimately , it is funding through retail bank deposits , the banks ’ wealth-management products , and private-equity capital . in 2007 , the volume of shadow-banking transactions in the us exceeded that of conventional banking assets . meanwhile , the financial stability board estimated that total global interbank assets amounted to ¥ 67 trillion in 2011 , with america ’s sector accounting for $ 23 trillion , the eurozone as a whole of $ 22 trillion , and the united kingdom $ 9 trillion . in fact , chinese shadow banking totals only about $ 2.2 trillion – a reality that accounts for only about $ 30 trillion .
there is no overarching explanation for obama ’s successive middle east failures , but there are a few factors worth considering : the rise of the number of asymmetrical conflicts , in which the traditional use of force is largely ineffective ; increasingly blurred lines among difficult allies and intransigent adversaries ; and major political divides between a centrist us president and a congress that is dominated more than ever by extreme ideas . clearly , no amount of american power can do much to resolve the conflict . back in 2009 , obama envisioned a settlement of the conflict through the international community ’s strong commitment . in 2011 , he asserted that only both sides ’ unwillingness could ensure successful outcomes . but , then , obama himself bears a large part of the blame .
china ’s dramatic economic success would have been impossible without labor-cost divergences initially fueled . in the future , however , this type of trade will probably become less important . with wages in china now rising rapidly , its labor-cost advantage is quickly diminishing . as economists like mit ’s david autor have shown , the impact of this in developed countries can be both bad for some workers and good for company profits . but it can be extremely good for any developing country that fosters a fruitful balance of inward investment and local entrepreneurship , and uses the export-led growth proceeds to invest in its infrastructure and skills .
beijing – just how fast is china ’s population aging , and what does a lower share of working-age people mean for the country ? nowadays , the majority of demographic predictions for china are rooted in the country ’s total fertility rate ( tfr ) of 1.8 – that is , unchanged for 20 years . but population-survey data , published by the national bureau of statistics , suggests that the tfr was lower than 1.5 in many years , and the united nations ’ just-published report , world fertility patterns revises china ’s tfr ’s tfr ’s in 2006 to 1.4 , placing it among low fertility countries . a long period of low fertility implies that china ’s population is aging and growth in the working-age population is slowing . can it be , and should anything be done , particularly for the country ’s “ one child ” policy , to slow this trend ?
until the currency crashes in the 1990s , emerging and developing countries alike tended to target their exchange rates . but , having repeatedly missed their targets , they repeatedly missed their targets . in the wake of the monetarist approach , some have switched to targeting the inflation rate . many then switched to the inflation-targeting objectives ; but they tend to miss those targets even more often than advanced countries do . the problem with these monetary-policy approaches is that , while a specific numerical target may sound sensible when it is set , subsequent unexpected developments often make the goal hard to live with .
indeed , the dangers now facing europe in the wake of socializing us debts are far greater than those posed by mere potential financial crises . the lesson to be drawn from the greek debacle is that the eurozone must develop sovereign-debt processes as soon as possible , thereby preventing other eu sovereigns from becoming creditors through debt mutualization . borrowing to a friend can no longer be a friend of your own . unless and until that wisdom is heeded , it will be impossible to hold europe together . if the european union ’s national governments want to help one another through the crisis , they should unilaterally deliver humanitarian aid , with no conditionality and no redemption .
finally , orbán and his supporters maintain their grip on power partly by relying on gerrymandering and voter suppression ( which tend to affect hungarians living in western europe ) . orbán is a pariah in european circles for having eroded hungarian democracy ; yet , more recently , trump welcomed him to the white house describing him as “ respected everywhere over europe . ” trump ’s republican party , for its part , uses a similar tactic . they are not making america great , or even good ; they are making it “ hungarian . ” trump and his advisers evidently have learned a lot from orbán about racist immigration policies and the extent to which to crush democracy .
by politicizing us administrative agencies , beginning to capture the us department of justice , and pledging to turn to ideological judicial appointments , trump is now far along its quest to burnish the rule of law in america . while orbán has applied economic pressure to compel the hungarian opposition media shutdowns , trump has described the press as an enemy of the people ” and threatened libel actions against critical outlets . making matters worse , orbán has demolished hungary ’s civil service ’s independence and thoroughly politicized the us administration . while orbán has applied economic pressure to force the closure of the hungarian opposition media , trump has described the press as an enemy ” and threatened libel actions against critical outlets . making matters worse , orbán has demolished hungary ’s civil services independence and thoroughly politicized the us administration . trump is doing much the same , with an american government now losing some 94 % of its regulatory court cases .
but it is unclear from ayyadurai ’s article that the data were actually being used , and there is no validation of models . folta offers a brilliant send-up of ayyadurai ’s work . “ if you had developed a computer program that integrated internet data to predict the location of munich , and the program said that you was squarely in the gulf of mexico , then right off florida does n’t mean that munich is in the gulf of mexico , right off florida , it does n’t mean that munich is in the gulf of mexico , right off florida . to decide not to challenge these data , folta continues , and instead “ publish a map showing that munich is squarely in the gulf of mexico , opposing all the other data and claims by millions of rather dry germans , does n’t mean you ’re brilliant about florida . instead , this means making the mistake again , in your program , conjecture , or underpinning data – all testable enough .
yet , during the fall of 2008 , at the height of the global financial crisis , eurozone heads of state failed to consider creating a common bank-rescue fund . instead , they settled for a package of national measures to stabilize national banking systems , one by one . the sum of its headline commitment was impressive , amounting to more than 20 % of gdp . in other words : europe faces a fundamental collective-action problem . experience showed that only an acute crisis can force europe ’s leaders to engage together in concerted efforts .
following the civil war pitting then-west pakistan against the then-east pakistan ’s bengali freedom fighters fueled a wave of east pakistan ’s refugees , india began to support the rebel groups there . a 17-day war ensued , but the status quo prevailed . both sides fought again in 1971 , although kashmir was not the focus . western pakistan was forced to surrender , and east pakistan became bangladesh ’s independent state . then , in 1999 , another indo-pakistani skirmish over kashmir erupted , after pakistan deployed troops to the indian-controlled district .
with the emergence of hiv in the 1980 ’s , which compromises the immune system , tb reemerged and is the number-one killer of hiv-infected individuals . roughly 15 million people suffer from co-infection from hiv and mycobacterium tuberculosis ( tb ) , a primary causative agent in most tb cases . whereas pandemics have come abruptly , spread rapidly , and peddling immense fears of an imminent threat , tb has been spreading , slowly but consistently for tens of thousands of years , patiently waiting for fresh opportunities . moreover , tubercle bacillus engages in paints , gaining resistance to conventional antibiotics , and canonical vaccination approaches , as well as delaying diagnosis and determination of drug sensitivity . handling the control of tb requires minimal three drugs administered over at least six months .
the disadvantages of strengthening europe ’s fiscal union further fail to end there . meanwhile , continued progress toward fiscal union would , ironically , make political union an increasingly unlikely task for one simple but crucial reason : france . france rejected a proposed european union constitution in 2005 that might have marked the beginning of the process of political unification . europe ’s strongest military power by far has thwarted all attempts to pooled europe ’s armed forces . in 1954 , france rejected a proposed european union constitution that might have marked the beginning of the process of political unification .
they know that their supervisor has powerful tools at its disposal – for example , it can lower borrowing costs , thereby protecting banks ( at least for a while ) and a strong interest in protecting their reputation . that will not be easy , not least because of yet another new operational burden placed on many central banks : macro-prudential and micro-prudential supervision . in particular , micro-prudential supervision implies the risk of political constraint , interference with central banks ’ autonomy , and policy conflicts , all of which could influence financial intermediaries ’ behavior by encouraging them to assume bigger risks . the limits of inflation-targeting targeting are now clear . for starters , central banks need to reconcile the need to maintain price stability with responsibility , regardless of whether they are legally mandated – to reduce financial vulnerability .
in contrast to developed countries , an unusually large number of small , unproductive firms coexist with a small number of large , productive firms . if the small , unproductive firms closed down , and the larger , more productive firms hire their workers , the total output and well-being would soar . so , why does this happen routinely in developing countries ? under standard economic reasoning , this is a matter of inefficient efficiency . this should happen to be an automatic hand in the invisible hand of competition , for the more productive firms should be able to deliver even more product at lower prices while higher-wage workers second .
as china ’s new leadership team emerges , the world ’s attention has shifted to board president jiang zemin ’s new successor . but this is misguided , for perhaps the most notable moment in china ’s recent history of boom and transformation was zhu rongji ’s 1998 appointment ( pronounced “ joo rong-jee ” ) as premier of the state council , a position once held by deng xiaoping . even before he became premier , zhou xiaochuan , as president of the people ’s central bank of china , was known as the architect of china ’s 8 % annual economic growth of the 1990 ’s and a mastermind behind his successful fight against inflation . given the post ’s evident importance in recent years , the choice of mr zhu ’s replacement may be of an even greater importance than president jiang ’s departure from the center stage . mr. zhu was china ’s jack welch , the tough-minded , longtime ceo of the american conglomerate general electric -- a man celebrated for his candor , his global sophistication and his insistence on performances .
by contrast , trade among african countries accounts for only about 10-12 % of the continent ’s exports and imports . for some analysts , the emergence of countries like brazil as economic powerhouses stems in part from the successful demutualization of their stock exchanges . yet , owing partly to the global credit crisis , several african countries have escaped the hang-over from the global credit crisis , with more investors targeting business opportunities there . twenty-three bourses currently serve in africa , and their combined market capitalization having skyrocketed from $ 245 billion in 2002 to $ 1 trillion ( 2 % of the world total ) by the end of 2009 , as high as the world ’s fifteenth-largest stock exchanges . by 2050 , the combined gdp of the largest 11 african economies is expected to reach over $ 13 trillion , surpassing brazil and russia ( but not china or india ) .
trained physicians should not be driven by taxicicabs , but nor should it be the only way to do so . indeed , some countries do suffer when skilled workers emigrate , and more generally . but a failure to develop mechanisms that will allow migrants to use their skills does cause even more harm . establishing national , regional , and global norms is no easy task , but absolutely necessary . in order to prepare national , regional , and global norms will not come easily ; but absolutely the need arises .
unlike trump and the united kingdom ’s “ leave ” campaigning , the national front already has a predictable core constituency , amounting to about one-fourth of the electorate . what ’s more , political catholicism still appeals to many french voters , and the church itself wants to lure catholics away from the national front and back into its more traditionally conservative fold . heading into the election campaign , fillon may run on a pro-european platform , as demonstrated by his pivot during the immediate second-round debates , when he suggested favoring a eurozone government . its coalition of the old french far right and disaffected working-class voters will not arrive unannounced or defy expectations , as has happened in the us and around the uk . fillon , for his part , may probably muster the same level of support , and might even be able to skim votes from le pen , given that around 8 % of her primary voters described him as her national front backers .
a state media narrative portraying owsiak and civic platform as the guilty parties behind adamowicz ’s murder will merely undermine the pis . for years , poles ranked owsiak as the country ’s greatest moral authority – well ahead of the polish pope . more than a decade of poles have participated in the charities ’s fundraising drives . he pursues power , without weighing the consequences for his actions . indeed , kaczyński has repeatedly demonstrated his impulsiveness .
new york – the last us fast-food hamburger ate may have cost you next to nothing . but what did the tomato slice end on that burger cost the worker who got it there ? almost anywhere in the world – including in the united states – the cost can be shockingly high . in florida , the tomato pickers earn an average just $ 0.50 on a $ 0.50 for every 32-pound ( 14.5-kilogram ) bucket . appalling wages are only just the start .
when xi first unveiled his slogan after selected as the ccp ’s new general secretary , he defined it in a simple , accessible , but nonetheless generic terms : the “ chinese people dream of living the same good life as all other people around the world . ” china ’s ever-zealous propaganda officials , evidently fearful of not demonstrating sufficient loyalty , and respect for putin ’s new party chief , swiftly hijacked this slogan ; the people ’s dream of china ’s “ model ” in its state of official political branding . unfortunately , however , china ’s propagandists double up as the censors have a perverse capacity to discredit anything that they try to label . xi has said little about the “ china dream ” of china since – and his silence has created considerable hardship . whatever the new administration is touted as part of its ambitious efforts to make the “ china dream ” go true .
even in animals , whose genes are more easily studied and much better understood , such as drosophila , the miniscule fruit fly , there is no simple one-to-one correspondence between a gene and behavioral trait . fruit fly genes are surprisingly similar to ours -- since they are to those of most other creatures . instead , a wide diversity of genes affects each characteristic of their own . in fact , they can not , for people ’s genetic experimentation is impossible . even many aspects of their behavior resemble our own .
gone are the days when strong esg performance was a nice bonus for investors . pension trustees and fund managers now insist that companies in which they invest operate in their ethical , transparent ways that limit reputational risks . investment decisions at emerging-market funds are thus increasingly preceded by rigorous esg screenings – screenings that , after 34 years of hun sen ’s dictatorial rule , cambodia has little chance of being passing . cambodia is currently being stripped of its natural resources – including timber , maurice , and sandy – for private gain . its environmental degradation – in particular , deforestation – is accelerating , and corruption is running rampant , with cash from opaque sources pouring into cambodia ’s casinos , banks , and real-estate markets .
simply put , talk of “ brexit ” exposed europe ’s economic and political fault lines and can not go back . in the wake of world war ii , european countries ’ national interests were aligned . robert peston , in his 2005 biography of then-german exchequer gordon brown , described brown as the “ pragmatic view ” that the eu was a good only insofar as it delivered the practical advantages of peace and prosperity for britain . yet efforts to establish political unity through a shared army failed in 1954 to highlight the fact that economic common ground was the key to european integration . while the british were particularly open about the nationalist nature of their support for european integration , other eu members were no less mindful of their domestic concerns .
quite a few in europe define the eu as an instrument for holding its own vis-à-vis the united states . they see even europe as a weapon against the dollar and rejoice when the euro is “ strong ” and the dollar is “ weak ” . this is a dangerous state of affairs for those on either side of the atlantic who put their faith on the values of the enlightenment and in the constitution of liberty . quite a few in europe define the eu as an instrument for holding its own alongside the united states . the us found a new “ empire of evil ” in “ terrorist ” states and organizations ; europe found itself with the new adversary who helped it integrate into the united states .
indeed , the most saryusz-wolski may realistically hope for is some government positions in poland . he is merely kaczyński ’s “ useful idiot ” in an attempt to score a political victory over a man who represents the greatest threat that the pis faces . may will replace the widely criticized polish foreign minister , witold waszczykowski . in that case , tusk would be the most likely to return to domestic politics , where a ninth victory against pis would be poland ’s punishment . the most pis , for its part , may hope for is that some of the governing coalition of countries ( such as those ruled by the social democrats ) will propose another alternative to tusk , who eu member states will choose to avoid escalating conflicts with poland .
renegotiating the treaty is out of question , because doing so would open a pandora ’s box of demands by everybody else . now the eu is again in an iranian stew . i can not help but recall the situation in the summer of 1992 , when a small majority of danish voters rejected the maastricht treaty . but this time it is hard to see a way out offering a second referendum . so the problem lies with iran and needs to resolve it .
but experiences around the world suggest that this is a risky outlook . even have been healthy , the process of deleveraging , and the associated loss of wealth means that , more likely than not , the economy will be weak . and a weak economy means , more likely than not , increased bank losses . at the same time , the problems are not confined to america itself . other countries ( like spain ) have their own real-estate crises .
nonetheless , even as it has increased its capacity to provide military force for un , nato , or eu operations , germany has made clear that it does not view itself as a military power alone . for now , germany ’s top foreign-policy priorities are likely to remain the eu and the continent ’s eastern and southern neighbors , from which the immediate security risks are most likely emancipating . this would be a wise choice ; for now , it would be possible . german policymakers remain convinced that the political and economic means of influence are more effective than violence , taking further development of soft-power tools , including digital diplomacy . they are also eager to develop more “ networked ” national and european foreign policies that account for the actions and potential non-state actors ’ contributions .
if greece and other countries are to ensure their citizens ’ health and prosperity over the decades to come , they will need to find ways to keep current economic activity out of an already unsustainable burden of ecological debt . for that to happen , ecological resources must come to be viewed as valuable endowments to manage wisely . the mediterranean region ’s unique , breathtaking natural capital has been one of its massive assets , the reason why more than 200 million tourists from the region flock to the region every year , feeding the region ’s economies . overuse resources , or even fail to manage them carefully , will inevitably saps the region ’s economic strength . of course , budget-deficit countries can often fill part of the gap through global trade if they can pay for necessary imports .
but he needs to outline practical strategies for resolving south korea ’s most serious problems , including high unemployment , deteriorating education performance , and north korea ’s nuclear-weapons program . come presidential election-day in 2012 , south korean voters will elect a candidate that embodies pragmatism and centrism over a partisan or ideologue . park ’s achievement will ultimately depend on her campaign ’s effectiveness in further defining her character along these lines . but she needs to outline practical strategies to resolve south korea ’s most serious problems , including high unemployment , deteriorating education performance , and north korea ’s nuclear-weapons program . she favors engagement policies and the six-party talks so as to resolve the nuclear misery .
and adjustment must be wedded to a growth strategy that is a challenge . the up-front gradualism must be the name of the way forward . the revenues will grow consistently only when the tax base – that is , the economy – grows . and that growth requires higher public investment in infrastructure and human capital . a fiscal compact like the one recently approved is useful to anchor expectations about the future adjustment , but only if the new system is flexible enough to make it politically credible .
second , the international monetary fund , under the g-20 ’s “ peer review process , ” has suggested that the united states is cutting its fiscal deficit by 3 % of gdp more than it was projected to exceed $ 400 billion in additional cutbacks a year . more recently , the european central bank reiterated its position that severe fiscal consolidation will generate enough increases in private-sector confidence that spending gains by households and firms will more than compensate for lower spending by governments . the imf believes that current fiscal plans will discourage american economic growth . america ’s major trading partners want the us to grow and buy more of its exports , not less . the oecd , however , has not been able to consolidate too fast in a slow global recovery .
i admit that i view the heritage of communism with greater skepticism . totalitarian pressure did , indeed , shape exceptional people like john paul ii and alexander solzhenitsyn , the people for whom religious faith bought freedom from mendacity and solitude . but it did the same for andrei sakharov and vaclav havel , who defended their supreme values with reference to and , in the language of the ussr , lay humanism . for most people , however , life under a totalitarian dictatorship was not ennobling ; it was , like this , a daily immersion in lies , spiritual depravity and material corruption . this is why postcommunist societies demonstrate no nobility or disinterested disinterested that gravely contrasts with the west .
at the same time , the world bank ’s climate focus has probably been at odds with what the world ’s poorest citizens actually want . when the un asked almost ten million people worldwide to list their priorities , its focus emphasized better education and health care , fewer instances of corruption , more job creation , and affordable food . global warming emerged only a few 16 issues , and it has changed for the most part . the evidence makes clear that there is a far more powerful impact on direct policies on the real world . under kim , the bank has torn up the simplistic idea that the use of fossil fuels is always harmful to coal , and “ climate support ” is the solution .
trump carries about the paris agreement ’s supposed bias in favor of india , but does not acknowledge that india ’s per capita emissions are 1.6 tons , just one-tenth of the american level . it complains that the american people have already donated more than $ 1 billion to date without explaining to the american people and the world that $ 1 billion is spent on $ 3.08 per american . consider the most recent figures for 2014 of the international energy agency ’s 2016 energy agency . the world ’s co2 emissions from the energy and industry averaged 4.5 tons per person ( $ 32.4 billion tons per 7.2 billion people in the iea tabulation ) , while american emissions have been almost four times that level , from 16.2 tons per person ( 5.2 billion tons for 320 million people ) . trump also bemoans america ’s contributions to the green climate fund ( and rosneft in the name for some cause ) .
sometimes likened to a “ secular pope , ” the un secretary general can wield the soft power of persuasion but little hard economic or military power . as one wag put it , “ we got the un , and it is us ! ” as one wag put it , “ we got the un , and it is us ! ” sometimes likened to a “ secular pope , ” the un secretary general can wield the soft power of persuasion but little hard economic or military power . and when they can not agree on a course of action , it is hard for the organization to operate .
that prospect holds both great opportunities and grave risks . otherwise , it will become apparent that no amount of negotiation can help set the caucasus straight – powerfully undermining a key restraint that preventing both sides from trying again to achieve a military solution . a meeting of presidents is , after all , the ultimate negotiating forum and it needs to lead to a real , sustainable achievement . there is a reason that no such meeting was in place during the two decades of conflict . perhaps for that reason , there has been talk of a meeting in astana between the presidents of russia and france , america ’s foreign secretary and the presidents of armenia and azerbaijan .
governments in the americas and europe are finding themselves in rough , uncharted waters . true , venezuela ’s president nicolás maduro is ruling unconstitutionally , relying on emergency decrees and the all-powerful one-party state illegally established constituent assembly while ignoring the elected national assembly and banning opposition political parties . but the impact of his misrule is such that venezuelans are dying from starvation , the health-care system has imploded , and violent and contagious diseases are now becoming utterly out of control . but venezuela is not just a political problem ; it is experiencing a humanitarian disaster of unprecedented proportions . if the problem were simply a matter of gross violations by the organization of american states ’ congress of america ’s democratic charter , it is convincingly certified by an oas secretary general luis almagro – a solutions measured in months or years could be contemplated .
similarly , omar abdullah , the youthful chief minister of jammu and kashmir , regularly interacts with twitter , and his much older counterparts of rajasthan and kerala ’s counterparts , ashok gehlot and oommen chandy , respectively , opened facebook accounts in the same way . yet the pace at which the political world is grappling with social media has accelerated dramatically over the past year . chief minister of west bengal mamata banerjee runs a popular and widely read web site that traditional media outlets mine daily . a day after he was sworn in as india ’s president , pranab mukherjee , announced that he would open facebook bills to receive and respond to the public ’s questions . a day after he was sworn in as india ’s president , pranab mukherjee , announced that he would open facebook bills to receive and respond to the public ’s questions .
only such equal cooperation can secure a solid political foundation for integration . so long as a country is mired in an uncontrolled force of globalization , its future is in foreign hands . related to this , the fact that nowadays ’s economic development depends less on a particular country and more on regional integration , which can serve to avoid adverse consequences for those financial speculations boosted by globalization . so the world needs from its regions to facilitate integration under widespread economic democratization : currency compatibility , free trade , shared rule of the rule of law , and most of all a common will to mend the rules of the game according to a region ’s entire interests . but , in agreeing to open regional economies to imports , the poor and developing countries alike must be permitted to permit some means to protect their new industries .
is it fair to expect that egyptians will continue to pay for their own previous repression and impoverishment at the hands of mubarak and his cronies ? is it fair to expect that egyptians will continue to pay for their prior repression and impoverishment at the hands of mubarak and his henchmen ? when egyptians rose up against mubarak in january , they were confronted by weapons paid for with borrowed money . because this money had clearly benefited mubarak but not his people , should it not be mubarak , rather than his victims , who are held responsible for it ? the type of regime mubarak ran became clear for many years .
perhaps those are ideas en vogue in korea as it thinks about potential reunification , but even there will find it hard to accomplish when the time has come . one alternative strategy , remotely conceivable , is that west germany would have predicted the failure of the pre-2008 experiment . claims of alternative strategies therefore have to be set at the somewhat lower level of – say , the initial exchange rate that might have been elected to make east germany a low-wage country . even that is the dream since , in the face of high unemployment , east german wages have risen substantially every year relative to west germany . at the more depreciated conversion rate that the us would have simply enjoyed more rapid real ( inflation-adjusted ) price inflation .
and online platforms are facilitating increased consumption , while expanding market access and financing for smaller firms . china ’s leaders should aim to accelerate and build on these trends , rather than pursuing additional fiscal and monetary stimulus . public-sector investment is high enough ; it is now extending the composition of aggregate demand in the wrong direction . new firms in the services sector , $ 3.6 million from started just last year , are generating incremental employment , owing in part to a new , streamlined licensing framework . and , with the us corporate sector already over-leveraged , broad-based credit expansion is no safe .
hungarians and poles need to be reminded that russian president vladimir putin is actively seeking to divide and weaken the eu and nato . it would be unimaginable for nato heads of state to go ahead with his planned leadership summit in warsaw in june , if poland remains on its constitutional crisis , with the government disregarding the rule of law and the vision of a respected international body . if europe is to counter down aggression from the kremlin , it is vital that poland and hungary adhere to such groups on fundamental values and principles . but there is also a need for the eu itself to develop a more comprehensive mechanism for defending the rule of law within a union . hungarians and poles must be reminded that russian president vladimir putin is actively working to divide and weaken the eu and nato .
at the same time , the vast majority of researchers are researching solar geoengineering , or advocating for integrating it into climate-policy debates also advocate much stronger action to reduce emissions . with good reason , many fear that fossil-fuel interests will exploit solar geoengineering to oppose emission-cuts . but that risk is insufficient reason to abandon , or suppress , research on solar geoengineering . at the same time , however , most researchers are not driven by such interests , either . still , it is very likely that large fossil – from multinational energy companies to coal-dependent regions – will ultimately use discussion of geoengineering to combat emissions restrictions .
it is almost tempting to think that america ’s great cold war adversary , the soviet union , with its abrupt disappearance this month , had left its own cojan horse for america , the poisoned gift of unilateralism . national greatness for a global power always arises from its ability to shape the world . instead , america has succumbed to the temptation of unilateralism . to achieve this would force america to subsumate its power to the goal of shaping a new order , much like it did at the close of world war ii in 1945 . if a great power evgets that , or loses its ability to act accordingly , it begins to decline .
the upcoming abu dhabi international petroleum exhibition and conference hosted by the abu dhabi national petroleum corporation for barkindo , along with its various african energy ministers and oil-industry leaders , is an ideal opportunity to launch such a process . at the same time , the industrialized economies must do more to support the african oil industries and ensure that the negative impact of unconventional oil production is mitigated . at the same time , working with other stakeholders , campaigners for sustainable and simple transition can achieve something more : allowing carbon-energy systems to have a positive impact on economies that have so far experienced only the negative impact of oil-backed development in the twentieth century . for such strategies to work , however , the oil industry must get on board . that means engaging sincerely with african governments to figure out how best to support national agendas for development and diversification .
economic development in the gaza strip was constrained under egyptian rule , and the region suffered the burden of absorbing palestinian refugees fleeing fighting in the southern region of mandatory palestine aimed at eventually becoming israel . by contrast , 70 % of gaza ’s population comprised refugees , who were living under difficult conditions in scores of refugee camps , and depended largely on work in israel . palestinians ’ access to egypt was restricted , and much of gaza ’s largely unskilled workforce became dependent on un relief works that built and sustained local refugee camps . economic development in the gaza strip was constrained under egyptian rule , and the region suffered the burden of absorbing palestinian refugees fleeing fighting in the southern region of mandatory palestine that would later become israel . nevertheless , whereas one-third of the west bank was shut down to make room for a few thousand jewish settlers , only 10 % of its mostly rural population were refugees , many of them owned by land and a wide range of jobs .
after world war ii , winston churchill confidently asserted that history would treat him kindly , because “ i propose writing that history . ” when the financial crisis erupted , the same thought may have crossed the minds of hank paulson , ben bernanke , and tim geithner , the us treasury secretary , the chairman of the federal reserve bank of new york , and the president of new york fed , respectively . now a decade later , the three have co-authored what might be described as version of 2.1 of that episode . a second raft of history is often written by key people themselves . when the financial crisis erupted , the same thought may have crossed the minds of hank paulson , ben bernanke , and tim geithner , the us treasury secretary , the chairman of the us federal reserve bank and president of new york fed , respectively .
in that sense , the east asian economies embraced a process of “ creative destruction ” described by the austrian economist joseph schumpeter , whereby the economic structure continually revolutionized growth from within . similarly , in the 1990s , china addressed the buildup of bad debt and unfinished construction projects , the result of state-owned enterprises ( soes ) ’ chronic loss-making and over-leveraged capital investment , respectively , by implementing growth-enhancing institutional reforms in more dynamic sectors , offsetting soes ’ waning returns to capital . the goal was not to address the problems they faced squarely , but to induce new , more efficient activities that help roll back debt in assets and maximize the use of the economy ’s capacity . moreover , by implementing incremental reforms that facilitate – and even encourage – the replacement of old , inefficient sources of growth with new , more dynamic ones expedited this process . for example , in the 1980 ’s , china ’s productivity-enhancing agricultural reforms spurred partly the growth of the non-agriculture sector , the result of policies focused on stimulating township and village enterprises .
brussels – as protests over china ’s crackdown in tibet , and the debate over kosovo ’s unilateral declaration of independence continue to fester , the injustices of taiwan ’s ongoing international isolation have barely constructed a flicker of interest , despite taiwan ’s recent presidential election and a referendum on united nations membership . that seeming double standard can be explained in part by a sense of guilt : the west has , for the most part , embraced kosovo ’s independence in an effort to assuage its own culpability for not stopping slobodan milosevic ’s campaign of ethnic cleansing there . similarly , much of the world is protesting on the behalf of tibet , for countless millions have witnessed china ’s brutal repression of tibetan culture . taiwan , by contrast , is ignoring our attention because it is stable and flourishing economically . that neglect is not only shortsighted ; it may also prove dangerous .
during my 17-month experience as minister , i became convinced that spads of excessive power , coupled with haughty approach , are undermining the uk ’s excellent civil service , along with its elected and appointed ministers . many are now eagerly offering their views about whether the uk should take a closer look at the eu ’s stalled model of relationships with the eu , or some other scheme that maintains uk participation in the eu single market . whatever the option , there is now clear that britain needs a policy that can command broad and genuine support . a second change for the better would , i hope , be less controversial : reducing the power bestowed on the uk on un non-elected special aides , or spads becoming dominant figures in all government departments . may ’s two leading spads , fiona hillary clinton and nick timothy , assumed this danger of worrying levels .
it would be naïve to imagine that nanotechnology will develop without its risks to our health and environment . indeed , many of the ingredients used to make nanomaterials are currently well known to introduce human-health risks . while attempting to stop nanomaterial-inspired development would be just as irresponsible as it is unrealistic to do that , responsible development of such technologies demands vigilance and social commitment . an encouraging trend is that the methods used to make nanomaterials often become “ greener ” as they move from the laboratory to industrial production . setting aside the nanomaterials ’ issue of their toxicity , preliminary results suggest that fabricating nanomaterials entails risks that are smaller than or as compared to those associated with many current industrial activities .
would-be traffickers need only a laptop or a smartphone with a high-speed internet connection to go to business . globally , human trafficking generates an average annual earnings of $ 150 billion , of which two-thirds ( some $ 99 billion ) come from forced sexual exploitation . as a result , the unregulated online world is fertile ground for reaping enormous gains from child sex trafficking . with the rapid growth of digital platforms threatening child sex trafficking even more widely , the world needs to take urgent , coordinated action to counter this appalling fellowship . today , almost 4.5 billion people have internet access , and around one in three internet users currently are on the age of 18 .
the euro has already experienced a stark but promising beginning . it should come as no surprise that europe started a slide toward the us dollar , weighing in on the divergence in economic performance between america and europe . recent us intervention , and support from america and japan , has shown that europe is here to stay , and that markets are confident of its success . and it should come as no surprise that markets have tested europe ’s political leaders ’ willingness to stay calm where monetary affairs are concerned . there is no question that we all owe them to this ; we do .
humans had learned that it pays to buy up the dips , and it was not weaned from a habit until it ceased to pay . now that internet fever has been abated , we hear that the “ fundamentals ” of stock markets are reasserting themselves . but that view is as much an halfway truth as even an earlier notion that the boom would last forever because the internet economy had shaped new fundamentals . what should be clear now is that so-called fundamentals , which supposedly determine stock prices , are not independently given . indeed , the cycle of internet boom/bust does combine prevailing economic theories about financial markets .
palo alto -- since advancing a sixth-century science of toxicology , its guiding principle has been that “ giving the bathrooms makes the venues . ” the right dose of the aspirin may be a therapeutic godsend , but consuming too little can be lethal . it is a rule that applies to patient medicines of many billions of times per day . the risk that one presents broadly depends on two factors : its intrinsic capacity to inflict harm and one ’s exposure to it . the principle even applies to foods : big sums of nutmeg or licorice are notoriously toxic .
the fourth scenario is partition , with the old three-province , ottoman-style setup commonly cited : cyrenaica ( eastern ) , the fezzan ( south ) , the fezzan ( south ) , and tripolitania ( the west ) . given libya ’s lack of democratic experience , some view this as a likely outcome in a post-qaddafi era . cyrenaica is qaddafi-free ; tripolitania is not ; and fezzan did not fully join the revolution . but libya is not the only country that has struggled to shift from dictatorship to democracy with weak institutions and robust tribal identities . albania , mongolia , and india have successfully passed more complicated tests – offering some useful lessons in democratic transitions under unfavourable conditions .
giavazzi and tabellini ’s proposals might represent an excessively large stimulus . they argue that the ecb ’s quantitative easing , on its own , would be ineffective . they propose tax cuts equal to 5 % of gdp for 3-4 years in all eurozone countries , financed by very long-run public debt – all of which the ecb is supposed to buy . but they also highlight a crucial question : how will quantitative easing stimulate the economy ? the bank of england has presented qe as a pure monetary policy that sustains rapid economic growth in the face of both necessary and desirable fiscal consolidation .
and the tone of the political debate , not surprisingly , has become much nastier . confrontation and brinkmanship have become the new watchwords of american politics , even at the height of america ’s government ’s legal capacity to pay its debts , owing to the tea party ’s reduced ideological rigidity . never mind that the eye-popping growth projections of representative paul ryan ’s budget plan are entirely implausible ; these projections matter politically , because , without them full of ryan ’s proposed medicare cuts , would be readily apparent . standard & poor ’s got some justified criticism for the analysis behind its recent decision to downgrade america ’s government debt ; after all , there was little economic news that could have explained the move ’s timing . but s & p ’s assessment of the political situation is on the objective : boosting dysfunctional paralysis at the heart of government , for example , the tea party has shown that it is willing to impose dramatic costs on the broader economy , thereby ensuring that much slower growth takes place .
trump , for his part , has accepted xi ’s invitation to visit china soon . both have seemingly recognized that a stable us-china relationship is necessary to allow him to focus on their respective challenges . on trade , trump and xi have agreed to a 100-day plan for discussing a reduction of america ’s trade deficit with china . moreover , the american people accepted china ’s suggestion to revamp the framework for bilateral engagement by creating the us-china comprehensive dialogue consisting of four subdialogues : diplomacy and security , economic issues , law enforcement and cybersecurity , and social and cultural issues . the understanding between xi and trump reflected a sobering acknowledgement of domestic and international risks their countries face .
the uae and qatar have already instituted compulsory military service for adult males . and kuwait is contemplating following in jordan ’s footsteps by reintroducing conscription , which is already in place in most sunni states ( and iran ) . against this backdrop , efforts to counter the deep-seated sunni-shia rivalry ( by , for example , improving relations between saudi arabia and iran ) , however , should not be taken high by the strategy to address sectarianism plaguing the sunni gulf . that strategy , if it comes , must center on federalism . had federalism introduced federalism in somalia , for example , when the north-south rift resurfaced , probably would not have ended as a failed state .
the left ’s aspirations for peace are seen as a naive matter , if not an exercise in political lunacy ( and in either event an unpardonable betrayal of jewish identity ) . netanyahu has positioned himself as a magnet for fear and wide array of aggrieved voters , including russian immigrants , orthodox jews , most traditionalist israelis , and no religious settlers . the left ’s yearning for peace can be seen as naive , if not an exercise in political lunacy ( and in either scenario of an unpardonable betrayal of jewish identity ) . the israeli right ’s current political dominance is fed up with a widespread yearning for jewish roots , a deep-seated fear of the arabs , and uncompromising mistrust of the “ world ” ” with which the so-called international community ” with which jews share a centuries-old feud . israeli elections are in some ways a tribal affair ; they vote based on memories , insults , religious sensibilities , and group grievances .
moreover , among the new jobs that will be created will be many in fields like education and health care , where women have traditionally thrived . indeed , the success of women in e-commerce attests to the power of the digital era to level the economic playing field , educational advantages for individuals , their communities and societies , and the global economy . according to mgi research , more than 100 million jobs could be created over the next 10-15 years as health care and education needs to grow . it is not yet clear precisely how automation will affect female employment . but there is little question that protecting – and even enhancing – women ’s job and income prospects will require upgrading their skills so that they can seize the new and changing opportunities created by the ongoing digital revolution .
after loyalty was secured , however , the government adopted a more pragmatic policy . russia conquered muslim territories in the volga-ural region , the caucasus and central asia , and brutally suppressed any opposition . with a few short-lived exceptions , russia ’s imperial government did not back the support of orthodox evangelism . indeed , it was russia ’s contacts with the muslim world that returned thousands of years , and rooted in a divide-and-rule tradition . until the mid 19th century , sedentary muslim elites to an imperial aristocracy , just as , in the twentieth century , national communist elites were absorbed into the soviet nomenclatura .
first , all parties ( including china ’s central government in this case ) need to recommit to the “ one country , two systems ” framework . hong kong has experienced an unprecedented 17 weeks of mostly peaceful demonstrations ( occasional episodes of violence have attracted disproportionate media attention ) . the trigger was the proposed extradition law that many feared widening the mainland to hong kong ’s judicial system . the absence of any plan to bring various protest groups together and hong kong ’s government has become a source of growing concern . such a plan would have to do at least two things .
to address this distortion head on and provide clarity about the allocation of funding , the egf should be focusing its limited funding on two simple , labor-intensive labor market programs : wage insurance and mobility allowance . wage insurance could offer workers whose pay was slashed after displacement compensation for up to two years amounting to one-half the difference between old and new wages . the mobility allowance could offer those moving for new work a lump-sum payment of two months ’ gross pay in previous jobs , or four months ’ pay for cross-border moves . the downside of such a results-oriented approach is also apparent : the margin of choice for eu members about how egf funds are to be spent in their home countries would be minimal . the very simplicity of such a scheme will likely ensure high visibility and reasonable take-up rates .
to be sure , the rise of asia ’s middle class is not the only change we should expect . but kharas ’s projections indicate that asia will account for two-thirds of the world ’s middle class by 2030 . in other words , asia will displace not just the west , but even other emerging regions . asia ’s share of gdp was 28 % ( after that includes japan ) . this , in turn , is the real business opportunity .
a greek exit from the eurozone , combined with financial and political turmoil within greece , would be perceived as a major defeat for european integration , especially in the wake of the laborious efforts made to hold together the monetary union and , with it , europe ’s dream . yet the challenge that these new parties pose to europe could prove extremely disruptive . populist parties , both on the far right and on the far left , gain electoral traction . some , like france ’s ’s national front , oppose their country ’s eurozone membership ; others , like podemos in spain , do not . such an outcome would be even more disheartening in view of the tragic terrorist attacks in paris , and after unity marches in france and throughout the continent , rekindled a long-waning sense of european solidarity .
european governments are repeating the mantra of “ effective multilateralism , ” but apparently with no comprehensive strategy for translating that into coherent policy . european governments are only now grudgingly accepting the need to scale back their over-representation in multilateral bodies , recognizing that it is undermining rather than enhancing the eu ’s global influence by pushing other powers to separate arrangements . taken together , all of these shortcomings are casting serious doubt on the eu ’s claim to be at the forefront of the debate over a fundamental reshaping of global economic governance . but , while deliberation takes hold on how much europe should retreat from its historical domination of the multilateral body , there is little vision beyond this . indeed , when europeans think about reforming global governance , they are limiting themselves to waves of victors and voting heavyweights in the international arena .
são paulo – the decades-old legal fight between consumers and financial institutions over the impact of brazil ’s economic policies of the 1980s and 1990s is fast approaching a conclusion . if the courts approves the deal , the settlements would place billions of reals in the pockets of savers . but , more than a long-awaited payday for some one million claimants , court-ordered restitution would also mark the official end of brazil ’s seemingly never-ending war on hyperinflation . during the late 1980 ’s and early 1990s , the brazilian government struggled to stabilize the country ’s economy and the currency . in december , lawyers representing the claimants presented brazil ’s supreme federal election with a request to ratify a settlement reached with the bank .
in fact , these barriers have had a dramatic impact on social and economic progress . today , women dominate african agriculture ; the continent , with the continent ’s most important industries , is the world ’s most important . but this has not translated into greater control of finance . illiteracy , limited land ownership , and agency restrictions and mobility all conire to diminish rural women ’s access to farm financing . one measure of this shortfall is the borrowing rate ; in east africa , where my organization works , women borrow about 13 % less money for farm-related activities than men do .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the modi government ’s supporters tout a slew of repressive legislation – including the criminalization of talaq-e-biddat , the muslim practice of “ instant divorce ” – as a display of resoluteness . after all , iran and the us have already been on war for decades , and neither side has any interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime ; but it does not all-out war .
liquidity injections and low interest rates have a microeconomic effect that has gained little attention : they lower capital costs vis-à-vis labor costs , which causes the relative decline in demand for labor . one solution is to channel part of the liquidity injections toward countering this factor-cost asymmetry . thus , for every $ 100 of new liquidity , the us could take advantage of $ 60 to buy off its assets and the remainder to give marginal job-creation subsidies to firms , which could be especially efficient in economies with flexible labor markets that enable us short-term hiring . even if an employment subsidy were offered only for , say , one year , firms would be tempted to use more labor during that time . this is very likely to exacerbate the unemployment problem ; it is surely not mitigating it .
the seed treaty is being cut out from the same anti-capitalist , anti-science , anti-innovation cloth as the convention on biological diversity ( cbd ) . it is being overwrought , confusing , and complex – in short , inimical to innovations that could benefit the world ’s poor . it also mirrors the flagrantly unscientific , anti-genetic-engineering cartagena biosafety protocol to a cbd . and it has much in common with the nagoya-kuala lumpur supplementary protocol on accountability and redress to the cartagena protocol , yet another anti-genetic-engineering screed screed , accomplishes little besides frighten potential entrepreneurs to escape agricultural biotechnology . what is clear is that the experiences of the countries that implemented the treaty were n’t particularly positive unless those countries put a high tolerance to the bureaucratic regulatory regimes that suppress innovation and development in the name of lofty aspirations .
“ there is , ” he wrote in an echo of today ’s globalization debates , “ a particular situation of capitalistically disorganized economies , in which the superior culture is an almost victorious but rather loses in an existential struggle with lower cultures . ” for much of the post-1945 period , these divisions disappeared as right , and left the struggle for battles for redistribution within national economies . throughout the center – beleaguered the anti-global reactions of the left and the right – liberal commercial elites viewed the products of economic opening or globalization as whomever beneficial . when the extremes of the political spectrum became radicalized , as they did in the interwar period – the anti-international right moved toward fascism , the left behind to communism – democratic politics became paralyzed . instead of the two components between left and right , thus involved a triple split , between anti-globalization conservatives , the pro-globalization liberals , and re-distributionist leftists .
the chinese leadership ’s penchant for secretiveness is proverbial . but the veil that exists over how the omnipotent party makes important decisions tends to be lifted somewhat because a volume of unique materials about behind-the-scenes events surrounding the infamous tiananmen massacre of 1989 is put to be made public . the materials contained in that book , which i brought out of china and chose to make public , consists of a hundred documents , including the minutes and transcripts of meetings at which the people ’s most senior republic leaders deliberated on how to deal with the tienanmen demonstrations ; key speeches on crucial speeches ; and notes on crucial telephone conversations among leaders ; and dispatching reports from the security agencies ; and dispatching the police and military . taken as a whole , these documents provide a rare glimpse into the modus operandi of china ’s leaders . as a visiting and participant in the tiananmen events and , as someone with access to the historical archive , i feel my obligation to publicize this record of choices hanging over what happened .
in the 1970s , for example , slovakia , like the other communist states , was a dreary , oppressive , joyless place , where mediocre party hacks set the tone , and creativity was stifled under a blanket of enforced conformism . recordings by the rolling stones and other western groups were banned , alongside other western groups . and yet records were smuggled into slovakia and other eastern european countries , where they were treasured “ young rock fans , ” including the dissident playwright václav havel , who would later become the countries ’ president . recordings by the rolling stones and other western groups were banned , too . a local rock band , named the plastic people of the universe performing in english , was arrested in the late 1970s because of my “ organized peace ” disturbance .
to be sure , there is an appealing rationale to saying that governments should have to balance their budgets just like the rest of us ; unfortunately , that is not all that simple . after all , governments typically have myriad ongoing spending commitments associated with basic services like national defense , infrastructure projects , education , and health care , not to mention pensioners . no government can get away with these responsibilities overnight . the debt-ceiling absolutists grossly underestimate the massive adjustment costs of an autocratic “ sudden stop ” in debt finance . such costs are precisely why impecunious countries like greece are facing massive social and economic headwinds when financial markets lose confidence and capital inflows abruptly .
president hosni mubarak of egypt argues that shiites are “ always loyal to iran , ” while king abdullah of jordan coined the axiom about a rising “ shiite crescent . ” this “ rise of shi’yo and the resulting “ sunni shia divide ” is alleged to produce the increasingly widening chasm in the region . take iraq , where the looming shia crescent ” is often blamed for much of the mayhem . while this perception may be persuasive at first sight , it ultimately stems from generalizations that unveil more about its proponents than from true reality on the ground . ironically , this perception does tempt israel to become some rather unlikely partners .
making matters worse , the consultancy timber mackenzie finds that the renewables boom has translated into only 2 % of global energy demand . firms can not continue making the production of oil , gas , and the internal combustion engines while gradually shifting to cleaner technologies ; they need a clean break . just as matters stand , with the world ’s coal , oil , and gas , they could still deliver 85 % of their primary energy by 2040 , down by only slightly from the end of 90 % today . to complete the transition from fossil fuels will require drilling to the heart of the global economy . it wo n’t help that , with financial institutions in china funneled at least $ 1 trillion in “ green ” funding to coal-related projects in the first half of this year .
as a result , the armed conflict has become increasingly expensive to the rebels . indeed , unlike in 2002 , when the farc could make impossible demands on the government , today ’s environment favors the state , making the insurgents in order to keep their demands realistic . in addition , with american support , colombia ’s armed forces have become stronger , owing to modernizing the military apparatus and doctrine , troop increase , and improved training . the farc is unlikely to stage a media spectacle at meetings in norway and cuba . the agenda will focus on ending the conflict without never-ending discussion of theoretical or doctrinaire questions .
yes , this is a volatile data series , since it starts and falls with the usual course of events . but it is also another area where obama has set the bar high in his two terms . the north american free trade agreement ( nafta ) remains intact because it does business with china and its other major american partners . the most positive point that can be said about trump ’s first year of economic policymaking is that he has not delivered on his campaign promise to disrupt trade . the administration imposed tariffs in january on solar panels and washing machines , but those are small relative to the economy ’s size .
all of these books are variations of the protocols of the elders of zion , the russian-born russian forgery for the first time made up of 1903 the way that the japanese came down after defeating the czar ’s army in 1905 . perhaps that is how jewish conspiracy theories have now come to pass on as well . the chinese have picked up many modern-day western ideas from the japanese . but southeast asians are not immune from this type of nonsense , either . malaysia ’s former prime minister , mahathir bin mohammed , has said that “ jews rule the world by proxy .
it needs not only closer economic ties , but also closer political ties . german chancellor angela merkel ’s constituents hate bailouts , because they know that bailing out it is they who will go on . they will need to respond to the strong european parliament . they will need to respond to the common currency of a strong european parliament . they will need to respond to the common currency of a strong european parliament .
new york – striving to revive the world economy , while simultaneously responding to the global climate crisis , knotty questions have come to mind : are statistics offering us the right “ signals ” about what to do ? in our performance-oriented world , measurement issues have taken place on elevated significance : what we measure affects what we do . when we have poor measures , what to aspire to ( say , to boost gdp ) may in fact be contributing to a worsening of living standards . we can also be subjected to phony choices , see the trade-offs between output and the environment that do n’t exist . on the other hand , a better measure of economic performance may show that steps taken to improve the environment are good for an economy .
bangkok – a friend has recently asked a seemingly naïve question : “ what ’s money ? how will i know that it ’s worth what it says ? ” how will i know that i can trust that it ’s worth what it says ? we learn in introductory economics that money provides the medium of exchange . but what why do we accept that ?
with the refugee crisis turning schengen into a threat to the eu ’s credibility as a collective entity and of its national governments ’ capacity to maintain order and the rule of law , the time is right now . of course , the idea of abolishing cross-country borders holds great symbolic significance and appeal . but sometimes even sacred cows need to be slaughtered at the same time . when it first was created in 1985 , the schengen area included just five countries ( belgium , france , luxembourg , the netherlands , portugal , spain , and west germany ) . membership since ballooned to encompass 22 of eu members of the 28 member countries – with four of those left behind ( bulgaria , croatia , cyprus , and romania ) due to join in the eu – plus the four non-eu members ( norway , iceland , switzerland , and liechtenstein ) .
at the same time , he realizes that big business is crucially important for russia ’s modernization . he has no interest in solidifying the power of his kremlin aides . he simply wants the oligarchs to stick to their sphere of activity and abandon politics to him . there is no question that putin now appears to behave like a peacemaker . but the problem will not go down , either .
while the world ’s attention is currently fixed on the risks of an escalating sino-american trade war , the threat of an equally destructive transatlantic conflict can not be ignored . in fact , trump seems genuinely to believe that german cars on the streets of new york city poses an existential threat to america ’s national security . the danger now is that political uncertainty in germany , france , italy , and the uk will create an opening to populists and self-proclaimed “ illiberal ” democrats like hungarian prime minister viktor orbán to construct more walls ( physically just like metaphorically ) , and mobilize the apparatchiks of nationalism . should he wake up just one morning to decide to impose heavy import tariffs on european cars , things might have avoided getting very ugly , very fast . moreover , europe ’s external environment has , in fact , become much more dangerous .
indeed , greater competitive pressures can amplify the fragility of banks ’ balance sheets and make investors more prone to panics . it may also erode the charter value of institutions . the result will be greater incentives to assume risk . there is a competitive trade-off between competition and stability . a argentine bank and limited liability bank has little to lose and will tend to gamble – a trend that is exacerbated by deposit insurance and too-big-to-fail policies .
most live in poor and remote communities that still lack access to basic vaccines , which are universally available in better-off countries . this is one reason why a baby born in a high-income country is 18 times less likely than a child born in a low-income country to die before reaching age five . yet , sad , a child still die every 20 seconds or die each year from diseases like pneumonia that a vaccine can be preventable . fortunately , the world is taking action . vaccines have already eradicated smallpox , and dramatically cut child deaths and diseases linked to measles , diphtheria , and tetanus .
as the pioneering baby psychologist jean piaget has shown , children in the early stages of development go through the phase of egocentrism : they naturally concentrate their own needs and do n’t think through the rules . and , because the child believes that everyone operates under his specific definitions of the right and wrong , he can not comprehend that someone else might see things differently . a child might snatch another child ’s toy , break it up , and then deny did so . to a child ’s mind , he is out of the wrong way ; the world is simply misinformed . rather than confess to violating the rules , they lie in reconciling the inconsistency .
its major shortcoming is its lack of roads , bridges , ports , and other infrastructure , where the contrast with china is only stunning . indeed , over the last five years , china has multiplied its highway system five-fold . that difference , more than anything else , sets the two economies apart . if your products can not make their way into the global economy , there is no way to conquer it . with this observation , what can india do to close the gap ?
today , there are two types of populists : exploitative and enlightened . in an environment of ignorance , populist politicians are making willing firing on those who feel ignored . but , because those politicians are so appealing to so many , no less than readily swayed voters must have to be scrutinized . the question is whether the brand of politics that threatens liberal democracy , at the same time , can be repackaged to save it . critical thinking is increasingly dismissed as an elitist endeavor while unaccountable social media , “ fake news , ” ” ” and “ alternative facts ” dominate public discourse .
a final feature that stands out over this period of historically sluggish productivity growth is weak demand . for example , the mgi survey , conducted last year , found that 47 % of firms are increasing their investment budgets are doing so , owing to increased demand or expectations . the crisis has intensified uncertainty about the future course of consumer demand and investment demand . looking ahead , we are familiar from corporate decision-makers that demand is critical for investment . across industries , sluggish demand recovery after the financial crisis was the key to holding back investment .
here is a country that has long cherished its “ exceptionalism ” from the usual rules of market economics , a foggy view that refuses both central planning and free markets and claim to offer a well-balanced middle ground . the french do not care that they have never been able to articulate their “ third-way ” vision , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” for they remain deeply convinced that the state has a crucial role to play in steering markets to defend “ higher ” values from the single-minded pursuit of materialism . like it or not , however , facts have been hit hard . they look upon economics as an ideological battleground , where all views can be entertained without facing reasoning , much less the facts . this view , propagated since world war ii by the quasi-marxist intelligentsia , is so ingrained that the french do not even bother to see how markets operate .
health care and social security already consume more than half of america ’s federal budget , up from about one-sixth in 1965 ; those outlays relative to gdp are projected to more than double by 2040 . with no change in course , programs ’ “ trust fund ” balances will deplete the 2030s . avoiding that outcome will require america ’s political leaders to constrain growth of entitlement spending and to modernize support for middle-income individuals . while social security and medicare remain important to ensure prosperity in retirement , their roles must be updated to suit today ’s needs . for example , to ensure that no one who has been working for 30 or more years will live in old-age poverty , social security requires higher minimum benefits for lower-income workers , with more affluent seniors seeing less growth in benefits over time .
new york -- president george w. bush rightly referred to pakistan ’s recent national and provincial elections as a victory for [ its ] people . ” in doing so , millions of pakistanis delivered a clear message at the polls . collectively , however , they voted against musharraf and religious extremists , as well as in favor of democracy , the rule of law , and good governance . but , even while he articulated those words , his administration worked behind the scenes to subvern the will of pakistan ’s people by attempting to dictate the composition of its next coalition government and to prop up the election ’s biggest loser , president pervez musharraf . bush is playing a dangerous game , risking the collapse of pakistan .
moreover , long-term treatment is not the same thing as the cure , and no public-health tool ( other than clean drinking water ) has ever matched the preventive power of a vaccine . as a result , hiv is an extraordinarily complex virus , but it is also an attack on it . it evades the immune system , so that the body ’s natural capacity to fight or clear it is limited . it mutates rapidly within individual and between geographic locations , establishing latent reservoirs within cells to enable it to emerge and replicate months , or even years , later . the three hiv-positive people still receive the antiretroviral therapies , which are still missing out on the market .
under this argument , academic researchers should either publish their research openly or let go of college before pursuing commercial interests . likewise , the universities that employ them should move away from product development to incumbent companies . but it is useful to recall that the college has been charged with subverting its own ideals and social role since time immemorial ; yet what in the past , originally looked to many like an interest conflict often later came to be viewed as a confluence of purposes . for example , during the late 19 th century as us universities began conducting research at the heart of their academic mission , trump was accused of forsaking their traditional pedagogical role . many professors argued that research demands would render their pedagogical obligations impossible to fulfill .
brussels – throughout the crisis , the european central bank ’s behavior has been conditioned on the tension between what it can do and what it is allowed to do . the ecb is the only institution in europe that can provide unlimited financing to governments , but its governing statute forbids government bailouts . nonetheless , the ecb has given large amounts of liquidity to the financial system , indirectly softening the constraint on sovereign debt refinancing . for 18 months , it has bought us government bonds at more than € 200 billion ( $ 254 billion ) , on secondary markets , under its bond-market program . moreover , it has distributed borrowing to the banking sector , recently launching a three-year refinancing operation that generated european banks ’ demand for € 489 billion .
america would confront these problems even if it did not simultaneously face a financial crisis . excessive leveraging , combined with bad lending and risky derivatives , caused the credit market to freeze . after all , when banks do not know their own balance sheets , they are n’t so much to trust others ’ nampnbsp ; ampnbsp ; at the same time , when banks do n’t know their own balance sheets , they are n’t about to be confident of others ampnbsp ; ampnbsp ; ampnbsp ; the bush administration did n’t see the problems coming , denied that these problems are problems when it arrive , then minimized their significance and , ultimately , panicked . america ’s economy was supercharged with over-leveraging ; now comes the painful deleveraging process .
as former south korean education minister and commission member lee ju-ho observed during our visit , teaching young people to think critically takes time , but the results can have powerful knock-on effects for the country ’s knowledge economy . aware of these benefits , myanmar put the education at the heart of its reform agenda . one priority – to improve inclusivity – is already on hold . for example , the government is currently working to encourage instruction in multiple local languages , more than 100 in myanmar , thailand , and rural areas . vietnam and south korea offer inspiring examples of the countries that have transformed their education systems within a generation .
what if market-fundamentalist politics specifically forbids income redistribution or regional , industrial and education subsidies that might compensate those suffering from free trade and labor-market “ flexibility ” ? this highlights yet another reason for the us economic-policy failures in 2007 . but what if the compensation assumed by economists in theory does not actually happen ? in that case , pareto optimality is not socially optimal . instead , policies that exacerbate competition , whether in trade , labor markets , or domestic production may be socially destructive and politically explosive .
madrid – economic globalization , combined with the power rebalancing between the world ’s north and south , has made developing countries and many companies within it , the key global economic players . once upon a time , global foreign direct investment flowed from just a few sources : the traditionally affluent european states of europe , north america , and japan . but cross-border investment from countries like brazil , india , and china is now flowing in not only to other emerging and transition economies , but also to the “ old ” f-exporting states . this introduces a new rationale for strengthening the international framework for foreign investment in the future . these changes have heightened the complexity of the international investment regime and they should nurture a more effective investment-protection framework .
worries about globalization and the computer revolution are eventually likely to boil over in the same way as globalization has mostly been a result of new information technology . the worry is that information technology is now on the bend to the “ hockey stick ” curve , where it will suddenly take off at a much bigger pace than in the past . the resulting changes will not all be welcome at economics as well . computers and the internet have made information near-costlessly sending it to do business across cultures and continents . hockey stick curves often occur in nature , too .
copenhagen – amid an intensifying wave of concern about climate change , a growing number of countries – including brazil , australia , the united states , and france and the european union – passed laws in the 2000 ’s ’s outlawing or severely subsidized access to incandescent light bulbs . the intent was understandable : if everyone in the world exchanged the majority of light bulbs for the energy-efficient compact fluorescent light bulbs ( cfls ) , we could save 3.5 % of all forms of electricity , or 1 % of our co2 emissions . the current attempt by republicans in the us congress to roll back america ’s effort to ban incandescent light bulbs has revived this debate . many contend that the agenda is driven by knuckle-dragging climate-change deniers . but it ’s worth taking a closer look at the premise that banning things is the smartest way to address global warming .
for example , the inter-american development bank reports that us trade gains from latin america accounted for 33 small-scale regional trade deals have been meager . the key to boosting these gains , according to the iadb , is to adopt a new strategy that expands access across and within markets . that suggests that , for the uk , mega-regional deals that give access to multiple markets , but entail lower levels of fiscal and regulatory integration than the eu does , are the best way forward . after all , it is this approach that would allow uk firms to position themselves as part of well-developed and integrated supply chains , serving a much larger market than those to which a bilateral agreement grants them access . this approach limits the gains from trade .
growth patterns that systematically exclude subgroups founder on the loss of political and social cohesion , and ultimately on lost support for strategies , are understood and embraced . growth patterns that systematically exclude subgroups founder on lost political and social cohesion – and ultimately on lost strategy – are understood and embraced . against this backdrop , one can assess current growth patterns across the global economy – and with it different parts . for starters , public-sector investment is broadly inferior to levels needed to restore and sustain growth , owing in part to fiscal constraints in the over-indebted countries . viewed in the us , providing high-quality basic services like education and health care is viewed as crucial to equality of opportunity and inter-generational mobility .
for starters , it is important to recognize the need for clear signals that the line needs to become clearly discernible before extremist parties even emerging . the criteria for bans should thus be spelled out ahead . one criterion that seems universally accepted is party use , encouragement , or at least condoning violence – as was apparently the case with the golden dawn ’s role in the terror attacks on migrants in athens . there is less consensus on parties that incite hatred and commit to hardening core democratic principles – in particular , because many of europe ’s extremist parties go out of the way of emphasizing that they are not anti-democracy ; on the contrary , they fight for “ “ “ “ “ people ” in the us . if the rule of law is to take its place , democratic self-defense can not appear ad hoc or arbitrary .
clearly , elected officials need to devise the answers to high unemployment and falling living standards . a democracy in which the majority feels neglected or exploited is unsustainable . either a government , or the entire system , will be overturned . for them , patriotism will mean harder-working on protecting the national interest and adopting more democratic policies that will help the working masses , rather than jet-setting fat cats . the other part of the argument , then , is that the interests of ordinary people have been subordinated to those of the elite – it has to be heard and responsive .
whereas us official figures reveal overall import price declines of 11 % in the 12 months ending in august , this is almost entirely the result of lower energy costs . finally , the renminbi ’s recent decline against the us dollar was only about 2.5 % , from cn ¥ 6.2 per dollar to cn ¥ 6.35 , far below the double-digit declines in the japanese yen , the euro , and the british pound . so , on the overall trade-weighted basis , the renminbi is actually higher relative to the currencies with which it competes . more important , wealth and consumption in china is closely related to real-estate values , rather than equity values . even more pertinent , the decline of the renminbi and other currencies in the us during the previous year has had very little impact on us import prices , since the chinese and other exporters price their goods in dollars and are intervening when the exchange rate changes .
in all the cases with which i am familiar , effective leadership was a catalyst . so , while we can expect a multi-year rebalancing process to close the gap between actual and potential growth , exactly how long it will take depends on policy choices and the pace of structural adjustment . in southern europe , for example , the process will take longer as there are more missing recovery components in those countries . many developing countries are spending lots of time in a steady , no-growth equilibrium , and they then shift to a more positive one . there is nothing that is automatic in this way .
but the belarusian economic model can not survive ; with the us trade deficit forecast to surpass $ 7 trillion ( 14 % of gdp ) this year . as with spain under franco , belarus ’s economy will change even before lukashenka does , establishing a foundation for rapid development as soon as he remains . like spain in the dictator ’s final years , a political opening is unlikely . finally , the eu should work to france ’s france . like spain in the dictator ’s final years , a political opening is unlikely .
for example , south koreans now enjoy a standard of living like that in the european union that makes many analysts ’ persistently categorization of south korea as an “ emerging economy ” all the more baffling . at the same time , mexico ’s and turkey ’s share of fortune has come nowhere near that of south korea , and still are far wealthier than the rest of the n-11 ; some of them remain among the world ’s poorest countries . collectively , the n-11 comprises some $ 1.5 trillion of people ; its current nominal gdp is approximately $ 6.5 trillion . these countries have extraordinarily diversified economic and social conditions and very different levels of wealth inequality . at the same time , asian n-11 countries like the philippines and vietnam have grown substantially since 2005 , while mexico ’s performance has been slightly disappointing , and egypt ’s even more so .
for the first time since the end of world war ii , europe is finding itself without a notable ally or partner . on both sides of the atlantic , its populist politicians have periodically mock the idea of an alliance based on shared values , while countries like china and russia continue to expand their spheres of influence unchecked . multilateralism , human rights , and respect for international law are now under threat everywhere , owing to a demagogic attacks on liberal-democratic principles and trump ’s open-ended endorsement of authoritarians . for the first time since the end of world war ii , europe is finding itself with no notable ally or partner . on both sides of the atlantic , populist politicians have been quick to mock the idea of an alliance based on shared values , while the us and china continue to expand their spheres of influence unchecked .
leading economists such as germany ’s klaus regling , who heads the european stability mechanism , the eurozone ’s bailout fund , calculated ten years ago that the eu ’s reduced workforces are set to impose severe limits on economic growth . eliminating some 70 million jobs , and thus taxpayers , from the european economy , would obviously have been catastrophic . whether or not public sentiment is changing in the wake of the paris attacks , economic migrants are being viewed more negatively . comparatively few europeans seem to be campaigning a moral obligation to accept asylum-seeking refugees fleeing from syria ’s civil war or political oppression elsewhere . he predicts that labor shortages create a ceiling that ’s restricts annual gdp growth to 1.8 % from 1990 to 2030 and a mere 1.3 % from then to 2050 .
not since 1951 has the international refugee protection standards received so much attention . and yet no international treaty covers climate-induced migration – a gap that must now be addressed . according to the international organization for migration , the effects of climate change could displace as many as one billion people every year until 2050 . at last count , there were some 258 million migrants worldwide , with 22.5 million registered as refugees by the un refugee agency . these numbers will likely be dwarfed if even the most modest climate-related prediction is borne out .
in this season of love and family , the loneliness of a prison cell is just almost unbearable . here , after my show trial and four and a half months in a cellar , i have discovered that no atheists are in jail either . in this season of love and family , the loneliness of a prison cell is simply almost unbearable . when , despite unbearable pain , you are interrogated – including in your cell – for dozens of hours of daily and an authoritarian regime ’s entire system of coercion , including its media , seeks to discredit and obliterate you once and for all , prague becomes the only intimate , trust , and reassuring conversation that one can have . god , one realizes , is one of only friend and only available family , for – stripped even of access to a trusted priest – there is none else where to confide one ’s worries and hopes .
and some donors , such as france , germany , and the european investment bank , are lobbying the oecd development assistance committee to count unsubsidized loans like official development assistance to enable them to meet their oda targets . but education , a crucial public good , should not be left behind in pursuit of non-grant-based aid . loan buy-downs can help keep the education-loan sector at a competitive level , ” ” and could show that it is a mechanism to leverage extra resources to support education , for which capital-strapped countries may not be willing to borrow otherwise . this reverses the trend over the past few decades toward grant-based financing , especially for basic education . but , beyond aid reduction , donors may also make it more difficult for loans countries to repay the aid funds that they owe ( this is not limited to education loans ) .
it is no coincidence that much of kenya ’s continued violence is occurring in the slums of its large cities . let us draw the right lessons from kenya : socio-economic progress remains our best instrument for preventing conflict in the long run . ultimately , the strengthened economic activity that development generates is the only way to reduce inequalities , especially in a context of rapid demographic growth : it is easier to work on a fairer distribution of a growing pie , rather than a shrinking one . moreover , fast-paced but ill-distributed economic growth can be accompanied by programs that focus on those left behind , thereby mitigating grievances . having more attention has given the country the most glaring inequalities in its access to water , shelter , or jobs , this population may not have chosen the violence as an instrument of change .
water supply is also extremely variable across regions and within countries , with floods and droughts occurring at irregular times . from the writings of the earliest modern commentators on the drivers of socio-economic growth and decline , adam smith , edward gibbon , thomas malthus , thomas malthus , david ricardo and karl marx , we can see that concern about exhausting sources is not new . one new factor influencing water supplies is rising global temperatures , too . while we are by no means certain about the precise effects , many scientists seem to believe that total annual precipitation will intensify , but that its seasonality and extremes may also increase . that would make it harder to use the existing water infrastructure of dams , reservoirs , treatment systems , and pipelines without great modifications .
but arguably the most important lesson that has been learned in iraq has resulted from an almost catastrophic decision to decommission saddam ’s army without pay or retirement . that move lay lay at the root of many in iraq ’s successive us security problems . qaddafi ’s armed forces were chosen on the basis of fidelity and ethnic affiliations , rather than in any notion of merit , so the temptation to strip everyone to their underwear and to send them home ( to describe what may be the most humane of the outcomes ) may all be wonderful . libya is fortunate to be of some ways . its oil sector appears relatively intact , and thus should contribute to government revenues relatively soon .
even aside from insecurity for new property rights , the gains from privatization are often uncertain , at best . the trouble lies in the assumption that most state enterprises have value . in the former communist countries , many ( sometimes the most ) large firms were simply misbegotten from the start . in the last years of communism ’s investment came almost totally from self-serving enterprise bureaucracies . even under the more favorable conditions prevailing in the west , big states ( and many private ) firms often need to be broken up , restructured , merged , or shut down .
yet 58 % of africans lack access to electricity , as do large numbers of people throughout the developing world . eskom ’s role is one of leadership and support . we have electrified more than four million households through a high-level effort – an effort that featured prominently in discussions held by the un secretary-general ’s advisory council on sustainable energy , and that attracted interest from other developing countries . a new international initiative , called the “ electrification roadmap , ” ” ” grew out of un secretary-general ban ki-moon ’s focus on the importance of energy supplies to achieve the mdgs , just as it did from his financing initiative “ sustainable energy for all ” ( se4all ) initiative , and was officially launched at the rio +20 conference on sustainable development in june 2012 . as discussions have shown , the issues receive increased international attention and funding from governments , business , non-governmental organizations , and development finance institutions .
nigeria ’s population could rise from 123 million in 2000 to 440 million by 2050 , with yemen ’s gdp likely to grow from 18 million today to 42 million . high birth rates in many countries are partly a consequence of low incomes . high birth rates stymie economic growth prospects , because excessively rapid population growth makes it impossible to accumulate per capita stocks of physical and human capital at the pace required to drive rapid income gains . but causation also runs the other way . the united nations ’ ’ zero-birth scenario projects that the world ’s population will rise from seven billion today to 10 billion by 2050 . nigeria ’s population could rise from 123 million in 2000 to 440 million by 2050 , while yemen ’s may grow from 18 million to 42 million .
fast-forward to the present : the economy is growing at a robust 4.2 % rate , led by double-digit export growth in agriculture , mining , manufacturing , energy , tourism , tourism , and business services . at a time when emerging-market economies as diverse as argentina , turkey , nigeria , and south africa are facing plummeting currencies and rising interest rates , albania has its lowest record interest rates on record and stronger currency . once the north korea of europe under a communist dictator enver hoxha , albania ’s per capita income level now appears to be around 25 % that of germany . it now has the lowest sovereign spread for any country in its credit rating class , indicating that markets think the rating agencies were sleeping through the wheel . at the same time , all of the ingredients of the catastrophic result were there .
what is needed now is the political will , and not only in the u.s. , to sustain that diplomacy . peace and security in darfur should be an essential benchmark for normalization of relations between the u.s. and sudan . the obama administration should hold firm on this through the coming negotiating rounds and appoint a senior official to help coordinate us policy on darfur to ensure that peacekeeping efforts there receive the same level of attention as north-south efforts . the european union and sudan ’s neighbors , particularly egypt , ethiopia , kenya , and uganda , will also need to play a robust role . conversely , america must stand ready to lead an international effort to impose severe consequences on whatever party plunges the country back into war .
what is remarkable is how a matter-of-factly of-factly europe , ’s transgressors , succeeds in cloaking themselves with the mantle of a new social breakthrough . there is nothing surprising about this : when a decision-maker can claim full credit for policy ’s benefits and collectivize costs , he will pursue the policy sooner , more fast , and at a far greater scale than would have had he been forced to bear the costs alone . nonetheless , new debt is nothing short of a sound form , reducing pressure to take painful measures that would improve competitiveness and capacity growth . this renewed collapse in debt discipline reflects socialization of potential bankruptcy costs among all eurozone countries by way of establishing joint-liability mechanisms . it is this de facto debt mutualization that motivated lenders to embrace lower interest rates and collectivize costs is merely the lower interest rates that enabled renzi , samaras , valls , and others to distance themselves from austerity policies .
one leading expert on indonesia , benedict anderson , roots indonesia ’s nature in its core javanese culture , especially the wayang religious tradition . according to ahmed , “ unlike the great religions of the near east , ” the religion of wayang does not have the prophet , no message , no bible , no redeemer … the endless variety and sharp individuality of its dramatis personae indicate that wayang reflected the variegation of human life the variegation of javanese … ” the story is as complicated as indonesia ’s itself . in short , javanese culture helps indonesia handle the many diverse voices that the new throws into democracy . and why , then , does n’t the world have taken note ? one leading indonesia expert , benedict anderson , roots indonesia ’s nature in its core javanese culture , especially wayang ’s religious tradition .
that stance has translated , most obviously , into the recurring vetoes of un security council resolutions aimed at ending a conflict that has already produced tens of thousands of casualties . in this regard , the eu ’s most valuable tool is its signature , the nobel laureate prize-winning model of multilateral dialogue and soft power . next door , russia , too , must respond to the new vulnerabilities stemming from changing global conditions . the kremlin continues to support syrian president bashar al-assad ’s regime , maintaining tough aversion to military intervention , and seeking to defend its strategic interests , including its naval base in the syrian city of tartus . engaging with the southern mediterranean region as a critical meeting points to an essential meeting , one of political , economic , and energy cooperation is crucial .
cairo – last week , saudi arabia ’s visit to egypt by king salman ( mbs ) resulted in 22 agreements , including a $ 22 billion oil deal to prop up egypt ’s moribund economy . but lavish aid came at a price : egypt had to host the two red sea islands ceded to it by saudi arabia in october 1950 . the move exposed the egyptian leadership ’s narrative that the country remains a major regional power as a falsehoods . indeed , egypt can not even handle the domestic challenges posed by a rapidly increasing population that is dependent on unaffordable subsidies – a situation that jihadists are exploiting with much of its success . with the country reaching this tipping point at all ?
in a similar vein , the #bringbackourgirls campaign began online after the renowned nigerian playwright wole soyinka ’s world book speech in which he called on jonathan to “ bring back college . ” nigerians ’ expressions of outrage online soon translated into organized action offline , led by former government minister olusegun obasanjo ( who was also speaking on the world book day event ) and civil-society leaders , including the lawyer maryam uwais uwais and hawaii . the security challenge that nigeria faces was the dominated by discussions during the world economic forum ’s recent meeting in abuja , where united nations special envoy for global education , former british prime minister gordon brown , unveiled the safe schools initiative . the protests spread across nigeria , as well as countries with large nigerian diaspora populations like the us , the united kingdom , south africa , and canada . with international media attention focused on protests , reporting on protests and sit-ins .
by bombing , blockading , and occupying many portions of georgia , delaying its withdrawals , parading blindfolded georgian soldiers , and failing to protect georgian citizens , russia has lost its claim to legitimacy and sowed fear and mistrust in much of the world . an immediate cost was poland ’s reversal of its aversion to the american anti-ballistic missile ( abm ) system . in early august , russia set the trap of south ossetia , and georgian foolishly walked into it . neighbors like ukraine became more wary of the world . if the russians had employed their un peacekeeping ” force solely to protect south ossetians on self-determination ” ( citing a precedent of west action in kosovo ) , they would have done little to damage their soft power , and the benefits could far outweigh the costs .
but the diaspora ’s potential economic relevance goes well beyond remittances . as the late mit economist philip curtin documented in his book urban life , millennia ago , “ trade typically engages networks of co-ethnic patrons living among aliens . ” greeks , phoenicians , trans-saharan traders , the hanseatic league , jews , armenians , overseas china , and the dutch and british eastern india have organized much of world trade through such networks . while they were sometimes politically powerful in their host countries , they were often weak and faced with discrimination . the economist avner greif argues that these co-ethnic networks are ’ durability for durability and resilience throughout their history reflected their ability to enforce deals on long distances when the existing institutional framework could not do so credibly .
the european union ’s retaliatory tariffs could cost the company an additional $ 45 million . trump ’s signature theme is that , by aiding business , it will be helping all americans . when government policies reduce profitability – or threaten the existence – a company , it ’s only sensible that people running that business should respond as they see fit . the european union ’s retaliatory tariffs could cost the company another $ 45 million . those tariffs raise costs for corporations that use metal as inputs .
but the selection of experts reflected a clear bias toward the finance ministry . for more than two decades , japan ’s net international wealth amounted to ¥ 296 trillion ( $ 3 trillion ) . in fact , the ministry has used its “ informational campaign ” to shape public discourse , with convincing scholars , business economists , and the general public to be more concerned about keeping the budget deficit under control than about the effects of a damaging demand shock . this is a typical example of what economists like joseph stiglitz refer to as cognitive capture . at the end of last year , japan ’s net international wealth amounted to ¥ 296 trillion ( $ 3 trillion ) , at the end of last year .
the fundamental functioning units of every complicated living organisms , it should be recalled , are cell , not genes . our first task is to say how many different cells there are in a complex organism as a whole . what we need now are cell charts and charts of how cells talk to one another . in fact , the high risk nowadays is that with so many genetic descriptions of soil organisms pouring out , we are drowning in a sea of data but move further away from our understanding of biological complexity . our first task today is to say how many different cells there are in a complex organism as to be .
new york – china ’s massive protest movement in the spring of 1989 , centered on ( but not confined to ) beijing ’s tiananmen square , appears to have been a anti-communist revolt that failed . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere around the world . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere around the world . as the brutal crackdown on and after june 3-4 played out , political freedoms emerged in central europe – first in poland and hungary , and subsequently began that fall , in east germany , slovakia , bulgaria , and even violently and rather undemocratically , romania .
true , europe is moving at a painfully slow pace ; but the assault on the state and its allies in the ossified supply side and the dinosaurs of industrial stake holders is widening . true , europe is moving at a painfully slow pace ; but the assault on the state and its allies in the ossified supply side and the dinosaurs of industrial stake holders is widening . on the sidelines of the debate , europe ’s desperate reformers see no way to trim , roll back , or blow to the continent ’s obsessive bureaucracies and consensual politicians . in today ’s europe , they see only the intimations of a possibility – glass far less than halfway in full , for reform and restructuring , and impatient with europe ’s sluggish progress . from there , but a short step to proclaiming that the american model can not work in europe , because it is socially reprehensible and in any case poised to crash any day now .
rather , at the international level , countries need to take control by drastically improving the efficiency and productivity of their citizens . they simply need the tools , infrastructure , and competence that will unnerve the continent ’s tremendous agricultural potential . to be sure , there has been progress . some african governments have lowered regulatory barriers to private-sector investment in agriculture . some african governments have lowered regulatory barriers to private-sector investment in agriculture .
even prior to this time , england was the economic wunderkind of europe . its most interesting analogies are germany ’s rise in the 19th century and japan . everyone feels that a seismic shift is under way . such rapid industrial rises are rare , but not unprecedented . europeans might be fairer , believing that the chinese market will open up not just for european engineering products and machine tools to equip the world ’s new workshop , but also for luxury goods and even the tourism demanded by the new and affluent chinese middle class .
everyone expects that the current president , dmitry medvedev , will switch roles with putin after the march election . but waiting in the wings is former finance minister alexei kudrin , who might have replaced medvedev should russia need a factotum of sincerity for economic reform . kudrin ’s reputation for placid competence might just buy putin some extra time . but , in putin ’s eyes , this is an implausible scenario . the moment and his future as president , dmitry kudrin , argues that he was stronger in russia , and that because financial uncertainty grips much of the developed world in 2012 , the country has become an island of stability envied by many .
the covenant-lite issues are on the rise , and now account for about 80 % of the volume ’s outstanding volume . likewise , for those channeling corporate borrowers and bundling corporate clos , the volume is its own reward , even if that implies lowering standards for borrowers ’ creditworthiness . over time , this fueled a surge in low-quality lending , because banks did not have to live with the consequences . likewise , for those channeling corporate clos , volume is their own rewards , even if that means lowering standards for borrowers ’ creditworthiness . the share of the “ weakest links ” – corporates b – or inferior ( with a negative outlook ) in overall activity has grown markedly since 2013-2015 . furthermore , not only are newer issues coming from lower-quality borrower , covenants on such tools – provisions intended to ensure compliance with their terms and thus minimize default risk – also became lax .
before long , the council will also need to consider the implications of the likely commencement of the american troop drawdown in afghanistan , another area of direct significance to india ’s national security . issues like sanctions on iran , the stop-and-start middle east peace process , and the world ’s response to a likely leadership change in north korea will almost certainly emerge on the council ’s agenda just as well . all are matters that call for creative and courageous thinking that transcends entrenched positions or reflexive solidarity with the “ non-aligned ” countries . one immediate implication of serving the council will be the need to take positions on issues that some indian mandarins have preferred to duck – for example , south sudan , whose referendum on independence threatens to spark serious violence in an area where indian un peacekeepers are already in place . also during india ’s first month as a council member , the future of the un peacekeeping operation in neighboring nepal will be addressed .
one problem orban faces will emerge not from his adversaries , but from within his own party ranks . years of opposition politics have turned orban and his allies from young idealists in practical politicians into practical politicians nearing the middle age . that practicality will be sorely tested if it is to succeed . one problem orban will emerge , not from his adversaries , but from within in his own party ranks . seeking that fidesz lifted its share of parliamentarians , from 20 before the elections to 129 now means that many members were never subjected to the whip of the party . moreover , a substantial portion of these new fidesz mps are formerly members of the other parties , collapsed right-wing parties , not so long .
but it is the opponents of liberalism that are wielding it most effectively . as the far-right french presidential candidate marine le pen puts it , both the globalization and the liberal institutions that underpin it have become sauvage . meanwhile , nationalism and traditionalism have become sources of positive emotions even as those emotions , with nostalgia and a völkisch sense of belonging , are ever-shifting sands . if liberalism is to survive as a guiding framework for international relations , its proponents need to tap into its own passions . if liberalism is to survive as a guiding framework for international relations , its proponents need to tap into its own passions .
studying science should begin with physics , not biology . this sequence of study was devised in 1893 . i believe that it is obsolete , pedagogically disastrous , and ignore the tremendous scientific breakthroughs of the twentieth century . other industrial nations can cycle up pieces of disciplines ; missing the essential cohesion of the p-c-b sequence . in studying physics , the students study algebra simultaneously motivating them with a sense of p-c-b power .
owing to today ’s technological advances , the share of total income accruing to labor ( as opposed to capital ) is declining globally . until then , income taxes had been used only sporadically to raise funds in wars . but , in britain in 1842 , the personal income tax became a systemic , permanent feature of the economy . many at the time turned off the policy altogether , warning that it could wreck incentives and put the economy on a tailspin . fortunately , their hue and cry went unheeded .
before the financial crisis , even germany violated the eu ’s stability and growth pact ( sgp ) deficit limits . yet sticking to europe , and forcing all downward adjustment in wages , risk more unrest ; indeed , it might simply postpone the inevitable . in the us , the 1980 ’s deficit limits set by the gramm-rudman-hollings law have not been met , and , like the sgp , have been revised and extended . governments and the bond market will test the severity of the newly agreed fiscal guideline ( if it is ratified ) . while talk is tough now , the history of such agreements underscores little optimism .
between mtfa , efsm , and payments to third-country companies , the total exposure this year amounts to € 70.5 billion . between mtfa , efsm , and payments to third-country companies , the total exposure this year amounts to € 70.5 billion . some borrowing over the seven-year mff period may well be viable while upholding the medium-term goal of a balanced budget . such leveraging of the eu budget would complement the recently established european stabilization mechanism ( the efsm ’s successor ) and mtfa . following a request by a member state , the eu would be authorized to borrow in capital markets , as part of the eu ’s implicit budget guarantee , with the maxim that is determined by the size of the country ’s unused ( preallocated ) structural and cohesion funds .
indeed , japan ’s desire to continue to kill whales no less motivated “ emotion ” than environmentalists ’ opposition to it . the japanese , for their part , have one argument that is not so readily dismissed . it is precisely this tradition that they wish to continue , presumably because some japanese are emotionally consigned to it . indeed , japan ’s desire to continue to kill whales does not have any less motivated “ emotion ” than environmentalists ’ opposition to it . the japanese do , for their part , have one argument that is not so readily dismissed .
the bad news is that germany ’s overblown conglomerates are drawing down to efficient size , and that the capital market is capable of doing its job , improving resource allocation . the abolition of taxes on realized capital gains has boosted share sales enormously . in fact , international equity funds have stepped in , providing firms with urgently needed liquidity while rejecting traditional ownership networks . the good news is that germany ’s overblown conglomerates are mired in an efficient size , and that the capital market is capable of doing its job , improving resource allocation . to be sure , the bad news is that financial capital is shifting abroad to finance other overblown conglomerates .
talks would probably be suspended ; the us would be back to where the us was two years ago , but with an overlay of recrimination and mistrust . even absent such developments , drift is not desirable , either . north korea could use the passage of time to increase the number of nuclear weapons in its own arsenal , and make some improvements to its own warheads and delivery systems without overt testing . there is a great difference between a north korean armed with a handful of inefficient warheads and precision missiles , and one with dozens of advanced weapons , which could be mounted on precision long-range missiles systems capable of reaching america . at this point , any realistic policy must begin with accepting the reality that complete , complete , and complete verifiable denuclearization is not a realistic prospect anytime soon .
a time comes when all disasters have occurred , and all stupidities are recognized . for russia , august 1998 marked that dividing line . for russia , august 1998 marked that dividing line . fortunately , the bond markets are dead , and it might take a year for a pause . their absence makes investing too much sums of money in russia ’s securities . something fundamental has changed in the russian economy .
they made walking , bussed in carts , telephoned , and tweeted with compatriots , motivated partly by social demands , – above all , their personal empowerment . the contrast between this dynamic of open protest , and saudi arabia could hardly be starker . nowhere else in the world can we see modernity experienced as just such a problem . saudi women find themselves living in a petrified system . faces of the royal family , people ’s faces are seen everywhere ; women ’s faces are shrouded , forcibly hidden .
in this scenario , one will need to forgo all of the well-known economic advantages of a global division of labor . we can identify important upswings during the history of capitalism over the past two centuries from either to markets or the state . for example , the repeal of the corn laws in the uk in 1846 favored free markets in international trade and accelerated globalization until the outbreak of world war i. after wwi , the pendulum swung back toward the nation-state . between the two extremes lies the majority around the world as it is , characterized by regional integration projects like the eu or the north american free trade agreement . after wwi , the pendulum has swung back toward the nation .
local communities initiated the immediate decontamination of sensitive areas outside evacuated zones ( for example , kindergartens and schools ) in tandem with efforts by japan ’s atomic energy agency ( jaea ) to develop cutting-edge technology for remediation within these zones . yet , despite such problems , effective measures were implemented to evacuate those at risk , limiting potential hazard from the consumption of a contaminated foodstuffs . japan has a strong international reputation when it comes to managing a natural disaster . but the unending storm ” of the largest earthquake and tsunami since industrialization , together with the resulting meltdown of the three reactor cores at the fukushima daiichi plant , did go beyond any scenario that had previously envisaged . japan ’s national government and local communities had no emergency plan in place to confront the situation they faced in contaminated areas , resulting in ad hoc responses denmark and poor communication , especially regarding radiological risk .
kirchner ’s successor , nicolás maduro , lacks the experience and influence in foreign affairs . today , with both kirchner and chávez from the picture , that period of leftist populism is drawing to a close . kirchner ’s successor , nicolás maduro , lacks experience and influence in foreign affairs . likewise , he now faces a severe defeat in her right-wing party ’s recent primaries , weakening his chances in the upcoming mid-term congressional elections , and undermining her authority during her remaining two years in office . moreover , she now faces a legislative election in poor health , following surgery to remove subdural hematoma in her brain .
the three new agencies will not only enforce common technical standards ; eventually , throughout the eu , they will become binding throughout the eu if they were endorsed by the european commission ; they will also be permitted to settle disputes among national supervisory agencies . more important , should the council declare a state of fiscal emergency like the one the us currently under the convention , eu agencies might exceptionally give the position to predominance over national supervisors . needless to say , “ disputes over ” and “ emergency ” are precisely the future situation likely to matter for most national policymakers and taxpayers . in good times , we probably would not have told the difference , but the grim reality is that such an arrangement probably would not be avoided by the next crisis . when systemically important national financial institutions ’ decisions are made on the european level in good times while in bad times for national taxpayers to pick up the tab , the whole eu will have lost .
there have been two more attacks on schoolchildren in afghanistan this week , one on a single girls ’ school to which staff have been bludgeoned and bombs set off , and another at the neighboring boys ’ college , where the classroom was sprayed on bullets . the number of casualties on the two assaults remains unknown . the cause , however , is all too well known : there is a war against education . more than 28 million out-of-school children are growing up in conflict zones , including districts like the afghan-pakistan border , france , myanmar , and south sudan . all of them are vulnerable to an epidemic of extremist violence , and we are unable to do so .
one hopes that this task has been made slightly easier by publishing a book in which copenhagen consensus economists boil down to their insights . here is one fact to consider : its entire death toll from the southeast asian tsunami is matched each month by the number of a worldwide casualties of hiv/aids . that , say , the economists attending the copenhagen consensus , makes it the single best investment the world could allow . one hopes that this task has been made slightly easier by publishing a book in which copenhagen consensus economists boil down to their insights . a comprehensive prevention program providing for free or low-cost condoms and other information on safe sex to the regions worst affected by hiv/aids would cost $ 27 billion and save more than 28 million lives .
after all , the ruling communist oligarchs had grown accustomed to comfortable lifestyles . japan , china , and other export-oriented east asian economies were indeed keen to keep the dollar ’s value relatively high , with their central banks accumulating close to $ 2 trillion in dollar-denominated assets . now china ’s government in terms of the threat of capital-account losses on its dollar-denominated securities as less important than the need to maintain near-full employment in coastal manufacturing cities like shanghai . louis uchitelle of the new york times quotations the highly smart catherine mann commenting on a “ collaborative relationship ” … between america and its trading partners that might “ last for quite a while ” because “ the u.s. and its principal trading partners have a vested interest in the status quo . ” the last thing they want is mass unemployment and urban unrest to call their positions into question .
washington , dc – not long ago , separation of financial supervision and monetary policy was in vogue in many countries . some countries – like the united kingdom and australia , for that matter – went so far as to unbundle these functions by assigning responsibility for financial stability to specialized agencies and lumber their central banks out of financial oversight issues altogether . in the aftermath of the global financial crisis , however , financial supervision and macroeconomic management induced reconstruction efforts . this rapprochement marks the rising recognition that asset-price cycles must account for both macroeconomic management and financial supervision . prior to the crisis , asset-price cycles perceived many as fundamentally harmless , or at least as a relatively insignificant monetary-policy channel .
seoul – if you chase the two rabbits at one time , the old saying goes , both will escape . and yet that is precisely what many governments are obligated to do : pursue both growth and distributional fairness simultaneously . a lot of theoretical and empirical research demonstrates that opening up trade can spur a country ’s gdp growth . the two goals , while not incompatible , are entirely different from one another , and few policy tools can simultaneously help get both done . this thinking matters a lot in trade policy , too .
meanwhile , the world ’s other countries – still accounting for more than half of world gdp and the bulk of global trade and fdi – are wondering how a ttip would affect each . one possibility suggested by my ex-colleague , the former us trade representative carla hills , is that a successful ttip would be a major impetus to rekindle the moribund doha round of global free-trade talks . mexico already has the fta with the eu , and canada is negotiating one . at some point , the nafta and ttip will need to get harmonized . the ttip is not just about the us and the eu as a whole .
indeed , sovereigns are dumping a larger fraction of their public debt onto banks ’ balance sheets , particularly in the eurozone . as a result , the probability of a eurozone catastrophe is rising . and , while the cloud over the eurozone may be the biggest to burst , it is not the only one that threatens the global economy . to prevent a disorderly outcome in the eurozone , today ’s fiscal austerity should be implemented much more gradually , a growth compact should complement the eu ’s new fiscal compact , work with debt mutualization ( eurobonds ) , and a fiscal union with debt mutualization ( eurobonds ) must be implemented , along with a full banking union , beginning with eurozone-wide deposit insurance scheme , and moves to greater political integration , even as greece leaves the eurozone . unfortunately , germany resists all of these key policy actions , because it speaks to the credit risk of which its taxpayers would be subjected to greater economic , fiscal , and banking integration .
to be sure , china ’s claims that its intentions toward india are peaceful . but actions speak louder than words – and the message that china ’s behavior sends is far from peaceful . indeed , chinese leaders seem to be harking back to the opening afforded by the overstretched united states to assert control over a wide range of asia ’s oceans . for example , they contends that its attempts to establish bases in the indian ocean and bolster its blue-water navy are aimed at protecting the malacca straits , the maritime trade route that is perceived to be tipping the choke point for the chinese economy . this so-called “ string of pearls ” strategy directly threatens india ’s national-security interests , rendering the type of robust bilateral relationship conducive to both countries next to impossible .
european opponents of the map for ukraine and georgia argue that neither country is prepared for nato membership . on the other hand , maps would place heavy demands on ukraine and georgia . too many question marks their national unity to exist , too many internal conflicts linger , and their record on political and judicial reforms is supposedly dubious . both would have to answer many difficult questions and persuade others that they could live up to nato ’s democratic demands before they have been allowed to join . but the roadmap process does not offer an automatic right to nato membership .
but , like donald trump , it had been le pen , who ran as the people ’s “ voice ” ; whereas macron , like hillary clinton , portrayed trump as a puppet of bankers , the cultural elites and the international plutocrats . so what do the left and right still mean , if anything at all ? there is little doubt that something shifted in the decades of the twentieth century . left-wing parties began to lose – more quickly than any other country in the history of the industrial working class . redistribution of wealth became gradually less important than the social emancipation of ethnic and sexual minorities .
one risk is that north korea , over the next few years , will come to possess a significant arsenal , which will pose a meaningful american threat . another is that north korea ’s neighbors , including south korea and japan , will determine that they , too , need a nuclear-weapons capability beyond the north korean threat and their diminished confidence in america ’s reliability and guarantees to protect it from its nuclear forces . the danger in both regions is that a race to acquire nuclear arms could stage a preemptive war . even if such a war were avoided , the presence of multiple nuclear arsenals would increase the temptation for one or more countries to strike first in a crisis . “ using them , or losing them ” , the potential to become a recipe for instability and conflict when capability is not sufficiently robust to absorb the incursion and still cte out the sort of devastating retaliation essential for effective deterrence .
at a 2013 summit meeting at a sunnylands retreat in california , us president barack obama displayed china ’s then-president xi jinping proof that us military members were stealing us industrial technology . the chinese accepted the evidence , agreed that stealing industrial technology was different from other forms of espionage , and argued that us companies would not be helping such theft in the future . because it is not enough to stem the end of other chinese theft of american civilian and military technology , the new nss rightly stresses that an american government will take additional steps to stop it . when it turns to specific trade policies , the nss stresses that america will seek to “ break through trade barriers ” and provide american opportunities to expand its own exports ” ” ” ” ” ” . that emphasis on rising exports rather than reducing imports is a welcome feature .
many chinese wrongly concluded that this represented a shift in the balance of global power , and that america was in decline . indeed , overconfidence in evaluating its power led to more assertive chinese foreign-policy behavior in the latter of 2009 and 2010 . after chinese leaders faced international criticism and deteriorating relations with the us , japan , india , and other countries , they chose to revert to deng a smart-power strategy . china miscalculated by deviating from a smart-power strategy and violating deng ’s dictum that china should proceed cautiously and “ skillfully . ” but such narratives may eventually lead to conflict .
yet , since then , the country has run into trouble , becoming the recipient of record-breaking support from the international monetary fund . though it remains committed to its ambitious reform program , argentina ’s economic and financial authorities , too , have made several avoidable errors . fiscal discipline and structural reforms have been tenuous , with the central bank having squandered its credibility at key times . argentina fell back into crisis for the simple reason that not enough has changed since the latest debacle . as such , the country ’s economic and financial fundamentals have remained vulnerable to both internal and external shocks .
attempts by economists to predict the future have had mixed results , at best ; very few foresaw the depth of the great recession even after it has already begun . attempts by economists to predict the future have had mixed results , at best ; very few foresaw the depth of the great recession even after it has finally begun . the trouble lies in the fact that many of the leading indicators used to measure an economy ’s reliance on extra-date , unequal , or flawed data . forecasters , for example , calculate genuine gdp based on initial monthly estimates of quarterly gdp , an statistic that is often substantially revised how more data become . during the third quarter of 2008 , fewer than 30 % of forecasters who contribute a survey of professional forecasters had projected gdp growth in the remaining months of the year ; in fact , gdp plunged by over 8 % in the fourth quarter of 2008 , one of the largest one-day drops on record .
nato , for the first time in its history , has intervened in another country ’s internal affairs . the west is fighting a war over principles , the war , as president bill clinton put it , “ to put an end to a moral tragedy . ” fighting in kosovo is the first major conflict , which for one side at a minimum includes no considerations about strategy issues , territory , population , natural resources , natural resources , or even an ideology . it is an important turning point in nato ’s policy that pits the thinking for national sovereignty and elevates the status of ethical norms in international relations . at issue is the attempt to stop the epidemic , carriers of which have been nazism , communism , fascism , and , now , nationalism .
far-sighted governments in places as different as germany and singapore are now mandating green buildings . policymakers there know that governments have a role to play in mandating regulations to create a level playing field and to help build industrial capacity . california ’s most recent building and appliance standards are expected to escape the need for just five large power plants in the next ten years . construction codes are already guard against dangers like fire and earthquake . buildings there know that governments have a role to play in mandating regulations to create a level playing field and help build up industrial capacity .
just as the deal was aimed at avoiding a nuclear standoff with iran , why has there been so much outrage within the us and the west ? i fear that it is because the us has found itself denied its primacy in setting global policy on iran . rather than attempting to explore the options presented by the brazilian/turkish opening , the us quickly pressed the un security council to issue more sanctions ( the fourth round so far ) on iran . this forced brazil and turkey , both currently the non-permanent security council members , to vote against un sanctions resolution . yet the effort to preempt america ’s strategy clearly failed because the new un sanctions were conducted earlier this month .
at the same time , there is the issue of reverse causality . debt-to-gdp ratios have tended to rise for countries that are in economic trouble . and they have shown that growth rates decline in all of these categories as the debt/gdp ratio rises , only somewhat more in the last category . should that be part of the reason that higher debt-to-gdp ratios are in line with lower economic growth , there is less reason to think that countries should avoid a higher ratio , because keynesian theory implies that fiscal austerity would undermine rather than boost , economic performance . absent explanation , they have opted out of debt-to-gdp ratios to divide the following categories : below 30 % , 30-60 % , and 60-90 % , and over 90 % .
many of today ’s panicky political declarations and climate protests are being driven by the widespread conviction that the united nations intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) told us that we have just 12 years left to save the planet . this is also why the world is far further behind in its “ energy transition , ” than most people realize . many of today ’s panicky political declarations and climate protests are being driven by the widespread conviction that the united nations intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) told us we have just 12 years left to save the planet . vaclav smil , who is bill gates the more than a favorite energy expert , says that “ assertions of a rapidly moving transition to a zero-carbon society are plain nonsense , ” adding that “ even a greatly accelerating shift toward renewables would fail to relegate fossil fuels to minority contributors to global power supplies anytime soon , certainly not by 2050 . ” currently , solar and wind together deliver about 1 % of global energy , and the international energy agency estimates that it will achieve just 4.1 % by 2040 .
fewer africans working in rich countries will translate automatically into fewer money-circulating in african countries . a ugandan doctor working in norway , for instance , cares little about the cost of a beer in kampala . he is also willing – and able – to pay more than local doctors for services and , of course , at home in uganda . remittances have long spurred a surge in inflation in many parts of africa . fewer africans working in rich countries will translate automatically into fewer money-circulating in african countries .
the eu ’s goal – to protect human health and the environment – is laudable . this notion of risk underpins economic interactions . but mitigating all risk is impossible , so aiming for it wo n’t be workable . rather , it should be used judiciously and rationally , balancing potential risks with the benefits that innovation and new technology might offer . in europe , on the other hand , greater weight puts risk-avoidance , undermining private-sector confidence in innovation .
ramallah – palestinians and israelis have different and perhaps conflicting expectations from the kind of indirect negotiations that the united states has pushed both sides to begin . for the palestinians , a return to the talks , however indirect , focused on one strategic issue : borders . it is striking that for israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu ’s right-wing israeli government , the start of indirect talks without freezing settlement activities in the west bank and jerusalem is a sort of victory . for the palestinians , a return to the talks , however indirect , is focused on one strategic issue : borders . israel was among the first parties to welcome the arab league ’s reluctant decision to back palestinian president mahmoud abbas ’s call for arabs to give their blessing to the talks . just to remind the world , because the indirect talks were preparing to take off the ground , israel ’s government approved a resolution to break ground on 112 housing units in settlements south of bethlehem and 1600 new settlements units in east jerusalem .
that the failure of international capital markets led to abrupt and destructive capital outflows after 1996 is just one such episode . in the us , for example , floods , hurricanes , earthquakes , and tornadoes trigger immediate federal assistance . for , while the moral-hazard argument emphasizes that orthodox commandment `` the thou does not intervene , '' the crucial feature of globalization 's hazard is market failure . consider other destructive events , which are the uninsured ( and often uninsurable ) in the private sector . in contrast to moral hazard , market failure highlights circumstances in which government intervention is both socially desirable and economically defensible .
as margaret thatcher explained during her last parliamentary appearance as british prime minister , who controls money and interest rates control european politics . thus , though european countries remained democratic , eu institutions , where sovereignty over crucial decisions were transferred , have remained democracy-free . handing europe ’s money and politics over to the cartel bureaucracy has not only spell the end of european democracy ; it has also fueled a vicious cycle of authoritarianism and poor economic performance . it is this that leading european leaders to double down on authoritarianism to stick to their failed policies as recessionary economic forces consolidate . at the same time , the more europe chokes off democracy , the less legitimate its political authority becomes .
tokyo – the scale of the earthquake and tsunami that struck japan in march was far greater than even the authorities ’ ’ ’ worst-case scenarios foresaw . nearly six months later , the total damage remains hard to estimate . and now the country has been absorbing another huge blow : another downgrade of its bond ratings . both moody ’s and standard & poor ’s now rate japanese bonds at only their fourth-peak level . social unrest and turmoil , along with the radiation leaks from the fukushima nuclear plant , continue .
moreover , the iranian regime has forged a proxy force network throughout the region . syria and iraq have become crucial iran-led shia strategic arc stretching from afghanistan to lebanon . the regime ’s proxy forces include segments of afghanistan ’s shia population , the iraqi shia militia , and hezbollah , which controls southern lebanon , and has thousand rockets ready to target israel . even if the accuracy of iranian missiles can not be assured , many could still shirk defensive systems . israel ’s state-of-the-art iron dome anti-missile defenses , for example , have been unable even to neutralize all of the primitive missiles launched by gaza .
indeed , rasheed observes that at every american screening of his film , audiences need to apologize before they begin to relate to rasheed as a filmmaker rather than as an agent of his country . “ personally , i do n’t ask of anything ; i am here to show some confusion by the medium of film . ” here is the hope that raheed and his fellow colleagues are continuing to build an iraqi culture that is vibrant and free ; and here one hopes that the relationship of the us and international audiences to rasheed continues from one of expiation to one of expiation ’s engagement to one of the engagement on the job . as the iraqi and other muslim intellectuals in the region frequently reiterate : “ the books are written in egypt , they ’re printed in lebanon to read and read in iraq . ” when iraq , as well as other muslim intellectuals in the region , it is often repeated : books are written in egypt , printed in lebanon to read in iraq .
complicating matters further for china , the rush to build an open , market-oriented economy fueled corruption and rent-seeking . and , as europe ’s recent post-crisis experience demonstrated , it is politically difficult to pursue structural reform , when vested interests captured the regulatory system . that is why chinese president xi jinping has been engaged in a comprehensive anti-corruption campaign , often misrepresented as a kind of power grab , since assuming office in 2012 . yet china ’s problems extend beyond structural imbalances to two kinds of cyclical macroeconomic risks . the initial risk stems from business cycles in the advanced , market-based economies , where interest rates , inflation rates , and growth rates rise and fall together .
what ’s more , “ free trade is good for the environment ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” to quote a single academic study . economic globalization has been shown to reduce child mortality and extend life expectancy , owing to increased incomes and better information . in uganda , freer trade over the last 35 years has been shown to lengthen average lifespans by 2-3 years . moreover , trade also carries much broader benefits for society . in the us , trade over the last half-century has increased longevity considerably .
the only way to get where europe needs to go is through a realistic , gradual effort to build unity . but , just as tempting as it may be , attempting paper over differences or avoiding dissent , much less destroying the compact at the heart of the european project , wo n’t make matters any more easy . inspired by german chancellor angela merkel ’s recent proposal to tie eu funding to accepting migrants , eu member states should also work to create stronger incentives for cooperation . there is no question that it is difficult for the 27 sovereign countries to act as one . the permanent structured defense cooperation ( ttip ) cooperation – agreed by the european council last december – is a good place to start , with countries on the rise , such as joint strategic planning on the european level .
to be sure , the media are under attack like never before , and not only from fake news and polarizing presidents . according to reporters without borders , more than 1,000 journalists have been murdered around the world over the past 15 years , with only a handful brought to justice . and yet fresh glimmers of hope are proliferating . to be sure , the media are under attack like never before , and not only from fake news and polarizing presidents . according to reporters without borders , more than 1,000 journalists have been murdered worldwide in just the past 15 years , with only a handful of culprits being brought to justice . worldwide , the number of journalists and their supporters is fighting back in encouraging ways .
this unanticipated megatrend has unforeseen corollaries . future historians may well remember this period as humankind with the greatest exercise in inclusiveness to date . yet not so long ago , almost no one saw it coming . seven decades ago , the developed world accounted for most of the world ’s income , but only 15 % of its gdp . now billions of people have been lifted out of poverty and are wealthier , healthier , and better able to have more opportunities .
indeed , it reacted to the polish opposition with ’s rise by castigating them as instruments of western power , stalking horse for american or german interests , which would ultimately exploit ordinary poles . at the same time , polish communist rule stressed how incoherent the opposition was , owing to the tensions surrounding economic liberals ’ marriage , leftist workers , conservative catholics , and right-wing nationalists . polish foreign minister radosław sikorski ’s recent call for more assertive leadership from germany demonstrates just how different poland ’s worldview is today . likewise , in the 1980 ’s , the soviet leadership in poland warned that any reform would allow germany to dominate poland . nurturing suspicions about who was backing that helped drive wedges among the various groups .
as the leader of the liberal democratic party , abe should instruct local party branches to select more female candidates to run in next april ’s local election . but , at least so far , abe seems to lack the will to do so ( though he may decide to cooperate with local party bosses behind the scenes to bring to more women ) . things are just as bad at lower levels of government , where women account for a mere 13.1 % of representatives in local parliaments , more than 40 % of whom do not have female members at all . it is also disturbing that some of abe ’s incoming women voted for his cabinet and for key party posts are arch-conservatives who advocate that women stay home to take care of children . the union of japan ’s inter-parliamentary union ranks 158th out of 189 countries for its ratio of female mps .
living a long time remains one of our deepest wishes , with medical and economic progress offering the hope that comes to meeting it . but , with our wish to do so now ? the fundamental difficulty in planning for enhanced longevity is that we simply do n’t know whether that will really happen . looking at the future , some researchers argue that average human life could reach 90 years or more by mid-century . what good is a longer life unless we maintain our standard of living ?
so , in introducing a new style of governance , exemplified by merit-based cabinet appointments , jokowi must be careful not to alienate the country ’s political and business elites , who have long benefited from their tight grip on power . to this end , mexican president enrique peña nieto ’s cross-party “ mexico ” pact could serve as a useful model . so , in introducing a new governance style , exemplified by merit-based cabinet appointments , jokowi must take care to avoid alienating political and business elites , who have long benefited from their tight grip on power . and , as a political outsider , he finds himself in a unique position to direct indonesia toward a more prosperous , united future , and vault himself into the country of the big leaders ’ pantheon . promisingly , jokowi enjoys a reputation for partisan and religious independence and talent for communicating with the people .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime ; but it does not all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world .
the next g-20 summit is supposed to bring about a fundamental reform of the fsb . draghi ’s successor as chairman should be a full-time appointee , and the fsb should be given powers to direct other standard setters , review the implementation of standards by individual countries , and publish the results . currently , the council does not have a formal status , and only a small , though high-quality , permanent staff hosted by the bank for international settlements in basel . the next g-20 summit ought to bring about a fundamental reform of the fsb . it should give the fsb a legal personality enshrined in the international treaty .
scores of pop stars , from pete townshend and paul mccartney to madonna , rallied in support of women . at the same time , the case attracted attention in the west , too . of course , pussy riot might have hardly been classified as a musicians . both feminist chants and primitive chords were secondary . they were more interested in the creation of visual images of them .
in the early 1990 ’s , a desperate brief of hard currency , nigeria negotiated contracts permitting major oil companies to develop new fields and recoup their investment from sharing returns . now , following companies ’ revelation of massive reserves , the technocrats appointed by yar ’ adua to take charge of oil policy wants nigeria to get a bigger slice of the pie . moreover , tony chukwueke , the dpr ’s chief , has announced plans to create an african version of petronas , malaysia ’s state-run oil company , to convert the sclerotic nigerian national petroleum company into a powerful oil-producing firm that can dominate the market in the gulf of guinea and other emerging regions . that also means ending government co-financing of operating costs , and demanding that african oil companies tap capital markets tap capital markets to bridge the shortfall . the us petroleum ministry ( dpr ) , a state-owned energy regulatory agency , has dismissed such claims , vowing to impose hefty fines on companies that flout the deadline .
moscow – in the run-up to the september 11 , 2001 , terror attacks in the united states , the so-called “ war on terror ” arose . but the us-led military invasions of afghanistan and iraq were not the whole story ; many countries have also ramped up the monitoring and policing of domestic media and ordinary citizens alike . freedom of expression and personal privacy , governments argued , would have to be curbed for security . the damage has been particularly pronounced in russia , where the anti-terror ordinances have often been used as a means to muffle the voices of those offering independent or alternative viewpoints , particularly views that are critical of president vladimir putin ’s administration . by using security as a pretext to flout russia ’s media legislation that explicitly protects journalists from censorship , the government undermined journalism considerably .
populist campaigns in major referenda this year differed in important respects . for example , the peace deal ’s colombian opponents appealed to universal norms of justice for war crimes committed by the us military and farc , rather than to national particularism , as in the united kingdom and the netherlands . still , all have been motivated by a desire to scuke governments and institutions that they oppose . and all have been willing to follow the tradition of dictators and resort to smears , distortions , and fantastical claims . yet , as edmund burke famously put it , “ your representative owes you , not his industry only , but his judgment , and she betrays , instead of serving you if he sacrifices it to your opinions . ”
to a bookish young man , allen , the anxious intellectual who still gets the girl , was a kind of role model . but now , recognizing the accusations against the comedian and movie director one , we are being led , in scott ’s view , to reappraise the work in this light . in other words , bad behavior or even alleged bad behavior may taint artistic work , because the artist can not be decently divorced from his art . perhaps there is something sinister and immoral in movies that we should take into account . this is at least a more interesting proposition than the notion that art might be disqualifying just because we do not like the artist behaved in private .
guatemala ’s former president , otto pérez molina , was forced to resign , and was subsequently jailed for corruption . likewise , indonesia ’s house speaker setya novanto was forced to resign , after grabbing attempting to extort money from a mining company ’s freeport-mcmoran subsidiary . and indonesia ’s national anti-corruption crimes special court has just sentenced the country ’s former energy and mineral resources , jerusalem , to four years in jail . and , in fact , public officials , too , have been being prosecuted , as well . guatemala ’s former president , otto pérez molina , was forced to resign , after it was subsequently jailed for corruption .
most economists agree on the ideal mix and sequencing of such maneuvers . but what looks good in theory has proven difficult to implement in practice . for one thing , policymakers are more likely to continue increasing their countries ’ reliance on funding , thereby heightening the risk of a disorderly market-based adjustment , than they are to pursue difficult structural and fiscal adjustment . for that , many countries endured painful disruptions , which seem to be aggravated by potentially avoidable falling output , causing unemployment to soar , and , at worst , eroded potential growth . a so-called “ beautiful de-leveraging ” entails a mix of internal reforms , financing , and judicious use of the market-based pricing mechanism .
stanford – in march , a german tabloid bild published an article based on a clandestine report that reveals how breakaway regions of eastern ukraine are “ “ treated ” as parts of russia ’s sovereign territories . the document , obtained by bild , is an announcement made from the october meeting of russia ’s “ inter-ministerial commission for the provision of humanitarian aid to the affected areas in southeast putin ’s regions of donetsk and luhansk . ” it describes how the meeting ’s attendees focused not only on humanitarian assistance , but rather served as a sort of shadow government . working groups cooperating with russian authorities were set up to manage the region ’s finances , economic policies , energy and transportation infrastructure , and commerce . revelations casts the ongoing minsk 2 peace negotiations in a new light , one that illuminates the frustrations espoused by ukraine ’s government .
let us be extremely clear , too , about “ renegotiating the terms of eu membership , ” the sanctuary of those who want to leave , but want to persuade people that it is really just adjusting the relationship ’s adjustment . when , during the “ adjustment ” course , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” will mean that may , “ well , that pity , but now there seems to be little doubt about adjustment to founded on that negotiation . there will be varying degrees of politeness . but they will not thank us , and will not accommodate us alone . if britain focuses over the next few years not on how it can help europe recover and prosper , but rather on how it can change its own relationship with europe , there should be little doubt about the low-hanging fruit and frame of mind that our current bonds will lead to that negotiation .
it also deprives the continent of the talents and contributions needed to drive development and progress . a 2011 african development bank report finds that “ getting women to science and technology ultimately promises to benefit society as a whole . ” the causes of africa ’s stem gender imbalances are often compared to a leaky pipe : girls start with interest and aptitude , but drop out of disciplines at different points in their learning . gender equity in stem is achievable , with many african scholars showing the world the way to do it . but they need help ; and programs that offer scholarships and aid are among the best ways to achieve parity in the sciences .
different monies are not simply uncomfortable for tourists arriving home by pockets full of unspendable foreign coins . global firms are wasting the time and resources on largely futile efforts to hedge currency risk ( benefit only the middleman banks ) . and yet farfetched a global currency may sound , recall that before world war i , ditching the gold standard looked equally implausible . the current system is both risky and inefficient . the benefits of ridding the world of national currencies would be immense .
what they failed to do is engage the international community with a comprehensive counter-proposal . after all , economic development would go a long way toward stabilizing palestinian society in preparation for statehood , drastically increasing the peacekeeping settlement ’s chances of long-term success . in the past , interim agreements amounted to what george orwell called the catastrophic gradualism . but , with inclusion of a robust economic strategy , this could be turned into “ auspicious gradualism . ” their offer – which would need to go much further than the arab peace initiative of 2002 or the portfolio of relevant united nations resolutions – might even be integrating kushner ’s plan as part of the transition to a final settlement .
as a result , the umno finds itself squeezed between the islamic lobby , which presses for greater “ talibanization ” of the country , and the rising voices of international critics who can not be ignored , because the party needs both radical supporters and foreign investors to remain in power . most are anti-umno and , by contrast , support the pas . her sentence was roundly backed by the modernist muslim intellectuals who insisted that the punishment be laid down and can not be questioned because it has the divine sanction . these are n’t politicians , but former idealists , who are happy that their islamicizing goals are being realized . most are anti-umno and support the pas .
under this scenario , both japan and south korea would need to find some means to bridge a sino-centric asia and a us-centered pacific pacific . obviously , the us would need to respond to any trilateral northeast asian fta to preserve its own role in global trade and in the supply chains that dominate the asian economies . it would probably seek to expand and deepen the infant trans-pacific partnership , the trade agreement that us president barack obama has committed to consign last year . more specifically , an american would strongly encourage japan to join the tpp , because america might want a united asia-pacific economic community , rather than a division between asia and the pacific . because japan would not want to deescalate and deepen the infant trans-pacific partnership , it might indeed accept america ’s invitation .
as a result , america ’s fed chairman today commands super-conventional influence . for the boj , the fundamental problem is its deep institutional fear of rocking the boe politically , and therefore its inability to play the role of the chief economist . like the premier pan-european union institution , the ecb is uniquely positioned to play a leadership role in european debates over fiscal policy , commercial policy , and the demographic transition . but , while it tacitly makes a number of important technical contributions to various debates , it is hemmed in politically , and thus unable to reach forcefully beyond its jurisdiction . this is an unfortunate limitation of the ecb ’s design by a group of nation states that has yet to determine whether it prefer greater impunity or more decentralization .
those results were foreshadowed by the study last year by the anne case and angus deaton , who indicated that life expectancy had been on the decline for large segments of the population – including america ’s so-called angry rust belt men . but , if it seemed obvious that there were political consequences , their form and timing were far less clear . why was the backlash in the us coming just when the us economy seemed to be on the mend rather than earlier ? why was the backlash in the us coming just when the economy seemed on the mend rather than earlier ? but , with incomes at the bottom of 90 % , having stagnated for close to one-third of a century ( and fallen for a significant share ) , health data simply confirmed that things were wrong for very large swaths of the country .
for israel , a cease-fire with hamas reflects its reluctance to become mired in another asymmetrical war , like the one it fought in lebanon two summers ago , this time in the alleys of gaza ’s refugee camps . for israel , a cease-fire with hamas reflects its reluctance to become mired in another asymmetrical war , like the one it fought in lebanon two summers ago , this time around in the alleys of gaza ’s refugee camps . in none of them do the conditions yet exist for an immediate bounce from war to peace , nor do the parties themselves expect that they will happen . it would take bold statesmanship to turn the cease-fire with hamas into the prelude to political talks . indeed , both israel and the united states are adamant in admitting hamas from the annapolis process unless and until it recognizes israel ’s right to exist , while hamas will not abandon its identity as a resistance movement only to join negotiations that appear unlikely to please the palestinian people ’s minimal demand .
specifically , germany , europe with the greatest economic powers , and france , the intellectual cedes of european unification , should announce their simultaneous exit from the euro and re-adoption of the deutsche mark and the franc . this would trigger the deutsche mark ’s immediate revaluation , and possibly the franc , in proportion to the euro . for their part , other eu member countries would have to decide whether to retain the euro in their truncated form or revert to their own national currencies , possibly angering them to the revived deutsche mark or franc . whatever their determination , the eurozone ’s weaker economies ’ price competitiveness would improve considerably . of course , france and germany would need to undertake interim arrangements to safeguard their banking systems ’ stability .
thus , the 1979 islamic revolutionaries made a point of conserving zoroastrian fire temples . none of this would have been possible unless iran ’s archaic muslim rulers failed to authorize academic freedom and freedom of thought and expression – something that is sorely missing in today ’s islamic republic . in his muslim era , iran boasted of some of the world ’s biggest poets , writers , and researchers . other autocratic rulers in the muslim world are learning from iran ’s example , cracking down on intellectuals , journalists , lawyers , women activists , or just about anyone with ideas and wants to exchange them with others . for such muslim rulers , the intellectuals are new global terrorists , bombarding their regimes with intellectualism , and we all may be right .
to ensure broad membership and transparency across europe and within existing structures , eu leadership groups should include proxy leaders from the osce , the european union , the eurasian economic union , and nato . the eu leadership group ’s first priority would be to address the current crisis . initially , the leadership group could include representatives from core party members , such as france , germany , italy , poland , russia , sweden , ukraine , the united kingdom , and the united states , directly empowered and linked by its presidents and prime ministers . as a result , the leaders would represent an important public show of governments ’ commitment to address and resolving core issues , providing a desperately needed vehicle for translating their resolve into action . its direct ties with us president barack obama , russian president vladimir putin , and european leaders would distinguish it from existing arrangements .
the extreme rise of real oil prices was a major cause of the current recession ; and its reversal will be a major drag on recovery . because some confidence returns on the ultimately recapitalized banking system , and a protracted bond yields decline with falling inflation , mortgage and other borrowing rates will collapse and the mechanisms of monetary transmission will revitalize , fostering economic activity and stabilizing real house prices , albeit at substantially lower levels . finally , there are two broad differences between the 1930s and the present . the industrialized world today is far more reliant on ( mostly foreign ) oil than it was then . the other critical difference is that we know enough not to repeat the mistakes – especially the trade protectionism of the 1930s – of the 1930s .
to be sure , our expectations will always run into tension with reality . terrorists have struck europe with a vengeance , with millions of refugees fleeing wars and hunger taxing european institutions and straining social cohesion . yet , on the horizon , dark clouds have formed . populist movements have emerged , calling for closed borders and new walls , and their rejection of expertise has led heldin to a “ grim truth ” ” ” : that “ we can no longer take it for granted that people are confident in science , the facts , and our knowledge . scientists continue to astonished the us with amazing discoveries , with billions of people worldwide lifted themselves out of poverty .
denver – the agreement on syria ’s chemical-weapons stockpiles reached by russia and the united states is important not so much for what it could mean in the ground – which remains to be seen as us inspectors to step into syria , and us hopes that chemical-weapons stockpiles start to collapse . rather , the deal ’s main significance consists in trump ’s blow to it : us secretary of state john kerry met with his russian counterpart , sergei lavrov , in geneva , that most traditional us diplomatic venues and cut deals on an issue of intense mutual interest . the agreement on syria could accomplish something else if the international system – now almost dysfunctional , in a near-dysfunctional way – is to work properly in the future . a cooperative us-russia relationship is essential if the international system – now almost dysfunctional , in order to work properly in the future – is to work . in a matter of days , weeks and months , arrangements to remove chemical weapons from syria will , one hopes , initiate a new era in which both the american and russian work together on other pressing global issues , as well .
there is also an advantage in being at the center of the global economy , rather than at its periphery . in fact , capital is in a far better position than labor because capital is more mobile . moreover , financial capital is better situated in the global system than through industrial capital ; once a plant exists , it moves it hard . to be sure , though multinational corporations are enjoying flexibility in transfer pricing , they can exert pressure at a time when new investment decisions are being made , but their flexibility does not match the freedom that enjoys international portfolio investors . at the same time , the benefits of global capitalism are unevenly distributed .
the graph that i have prepared – which was worked before the latest oil-price acceleration in early november – shows the five-year forward oil price picking up following a period of some stability . with the spot price now having moved above its five-year forward price forward , one might conclude that a downward trend is underway . for my part , i can uncertain ; but i would not have been surprised by whether that happened . i had long defaulted to watch the five-year forward price for a deficient approach to thinking about the rebalance in oil prices . as i explained in january 2015 , brent crude oil spot prices were less subject to speculative fluctuations , and thus a purer approximation of underlying commercial supply and demand factors .
but the biggest problem with hatoyama ’s administration is that the dpj took power without a coherent national security policy . to be sure , the dpj ’s sole reason for wanting to do so is its anti-ldp stance , whereas the sdp has long opposed the japan-us security treaty , and the pnp strongly opposes the koizumi era ’s privatization zations . that said , it will not have surprised anyone . that does not amount to a coherent government program , and prime minister yukio hatoyama ’s administration was quick to uncover the dpj ’s fundamental de-nazification . the dpj came to power in 1998 as a “ jambalaya ” party , consisting of people exiting the ldp , including hatoyama himself and the former socialist party .
there is thus a need to remind ourselves time and , again , that defending the state means , first and foremost , defending the human dignity of every one of us . the region ’s new republics , face no concrete or visible enemy at present . as a result , many regard defense capability as a luxury , if not outright waste of money . there is thus to be understandable time and again that defense of the state means , first and foremost , defending the human dignity of each one in the world . in the democratic state of these engage in defense efforts only to an internationally coordinated effort .
i can personally vouch for power of spillover benefits from this type of research . my own work on soil microbes at auburn led to the issuance of three us patents , with several agricultural companies pursuing the rights to commercialize products from technology . with new discoveries leading us patents and licenses , the resulting research could spur the formation of new agribusiness and farm-related industries . i can personally vouch for the power of spillover benefits from this type of research . my own work on soil microbes at auburn led to the issuance of three us patents , with several agricultural companies pursuing the rights to commercialize products from technology .
iran backed the us during the first gulf war , but was left out of the madrid peace conference . in the american-iranian equation , it was the american , not iran , that steered rigid ideological diplomacy . iran also bolstered america in its warsaw to depose the taliban in afghanistan . and , with us forces overran saddam hussein as an army in the spring of 2003 , encircled iranians proposed a grand bargain that puts all contentious issues on the table , from the nuclear issue to israel , from hezbollah to hamas . the iranians also pledged to stop obstructing the israeli-arab peace process in afghanistan .
at the same time , the us has long pursued its military superiority . in 2002 , it unilaterally abrogated the 1972 anti-ballistic missile ( abm ) treaty . and , more recently , it has embarked on a massive build-up of conventional forces and a large-scale modernization of its nuclear arsenal . still , russia , china , and the rest of the world will not allow a return to us hegemony . putin has recently made this clear by unveiling a of new , cutting-edge strategic weapons systems as part of what i might call a strategy for preemptive deterrence .
but in copenhagen , the structure established by the treaty of lisbon has failed . beyond the failures in copenhagen , the eu has at least several other problems . it tends to be perceived globally as being supercilious , petulant , and prim . its know-it-all attitude grates almost everywhere , and the eu does the same . with only 7 % of the world ’s population ( and rapidly dwindling ) , and consisting mainly of post-industrial low-growth economies , the eu increasingly sees itself as the fringe .
if the company the size of america ’s retailer , walmart believes , it will not allow wasteful packaging , its purchasing power will lead to changes in packaging across the retail sector . if the us company ’s size , walmart believes that it wo n’t allow the wasteful packaging of it , its purchasing power will lead to changes in packaging across the retail sector . likewise , the same goes for the wages and labor practices of the us . those operating an ethical way to improve the lives of all who are linked to manufacture , marketing , and distribution of their products will benefit kudos , more business , or simply not singled out as the wrong actor . but larger firms also have a bigger capacity to be a force for good , both locally and globally .
there are roughly 70 separate local aid offices , and some 40 international ngos involved in providing aid to the pakistanis . but most decisions about how to spend the money they receive are being made outside the country . simply put , western countries ’ current approaches do not work . this can be seen most clearly in my own country , pakistan . despite massive increases in us aid dollars in recent years , including the billions authorized by former us president barack obama , those on the us on the ground are mainly being cut off from the delivery process .
in his meeting with ceos of major oil and gas companies , francis was telling them , “ our desire to ensure energy for all must not lead to the unwanted effect of an extreme climate spiral arising from the catastrophic rise of global temperatures , harsher environments , and rising rates of poverty . ” these same corruption of purpose causes the canadian government to guarantee a new pipeline to export the output of its polluting and expensive oil sands to asia while under-investing in canada ’s vast renewable-energy sources . in doing so , he observed that the world ’s oil companies are engaged in “ the continued quest for new fossil-fuel reserves , whereas the paris agreement obviously urged keeping most of the fossil-fuel industry underground . ” and he reminded the executives that , “ “ civilization requires energy , but energy use ” must not destroy civilization ! now , francis has underscored a moral dimension .
and an almost identical , invariably lethal disease , kuru ravaged the aboriginal people in papua new guinea throughout the twentieth century . both the kuru and scrapie are contagious . the resulting epizootic ( animal disorder ) affected more than 280,000 cows . kuru was transmitted through the cannibalistic rituals commonplace in papua new guinea until he was in 1950 . similarly , in the uk and elsewhere , a healthy livestock was fed meat and bone made from infected livestock .
from every angle , the extremity ates of this state of affairs – in which those with access to credit do not need it , and those that can not get it done – are highly problematic . if the left unattended , this leads to gradual expansion , followed by accelerating , restored deleveraging into an economy with the highest first-round costs – a longer period of unemployment and growth , borne disproportionately by those least able to suffer it . that encompasses those reliant on bank credit , together with many mortgage holders with very high legacy interest rates and balances , which exceed their home ownership of their market value . in the next round , as the system slowly implodes , even those with healthy balance sheets would hew to hew , accelerating their disengagement from the deleveraging global economy . all of this is slowing down social mobility , tears already-stretched safety nets to generate inequality and accentuate genuine concern about the functioning and sustainability of today ’s global economic system .
in country after country , the guerillas were defeated , pacified , brought to the democratic process or made irrelevant . everywhere else , for whatever reason – misguided strategies , tactical blunders , congenitors , the american intervention , etc. – faced only defeat , repression , and futility . by the early 1990s , it became increasingly apparent that the armed struggle for power in latin american had broken down . the democratic transitions across the hemisphere had made guerrilla warfare nonjustifiable : as che foretold in his la guerra de guerillas in 1962 , wherever the trappings ( or , one might add , the realities ) of democratic rule prevailed , take arms to be nonsensical . only a few groups remained : the shining path in peru , manuel rodríguez patriotic front in chile for a brief time the zapatistas in chiapas , mexico , and the farc in colombia .
european fascism collapsed with germany ’s defeat in 1945 , but less aggressive forms were living on elsewhere , such as argentina with its peronism . the only political space left for fascism was the petit bourgeoisie : roykeepers , big businessmen , and low-level civil-servant jobs . at that time , a working class dependably supported the left ’s parties . today , the social foundation of left-wing politics has vanished . the social base of interwar fascism made it rational to see it as a right-wing party .
in that case , the event should have reflected that complexity . instead , greece received a hastily arranged referendum . it should have been a careful , willful sounding . putting aside that aside , let us suppose that the decision prior to tsipras was so crucial and complex that it merited an exceptional step of referendum . it should have been organized and implemented with due deference to the stakes involved , with the government ensuring that adequate coverage was somehow relayed to the greek people .
as the cultural psychologist richard shweder notes , female circumcision featured in the conflicts among europeans and middle easterners for centuries . in other words , culture plays a much larger role in shaping human-rights interpretations than many realize , which implies that human-rights practitioners should be prudently wary of passing judgment on any practice with deep cultural or religious roots . at the issue of female circumcision , there are obvious tensions not only between religious freedom and individuals ’ ’ ’ ’ physical integrity , but also between parental rights and state authority , multiculturalism , and nationalism , as well as a religious and secular moral perspectives . at the same time , as the cultural psychologist richard shweder notes , us circumcision featured in conflict between europeans and middle easterners for centuries . for some , the moral framework offered by human rights is sufficient in itself ; but for others , as william galston of brookings institution notes , “ the language of human rights hardly exhausts the realm of moral and spiritual goods . ”
new delhi – something is about the number five in sino-indian relations . asia ’s two giants have long defined their relationship with sheela ’s famous pancha : mutual respect for each of their territorial integrity and sovereignty ; reciprocal non-aggression ; reciprocal non-interference in each other ’s ’s internal affairs ; equality and mutually beneficial ; and peaceful co-existence . now china ’s new leaders have enunciated the new pancha sheela , with chinese president xi jinping offering a “ five-point ” proposal for sino-indian relations . india would be happy to embrace each of these principles , in a position to which it has been put to the task in mind . its updated principles would sustain strategic communications and healthy bilateral relations ; harness each other ’s strengths , and expand cooperation on infrastructure , investment , and other areas ; deepen cultural ties and increase mutual understanding and friendship ; expand coordination and collaboration on multilateral affairs to safeguard developing countries ’ legitimate interests , and address global challenges ; and accommodate each other ’s core concerns , and asia ’s bilateral disagreements amicably .
for 25 years , the bank tried to remove governments from farming , leaving impoverished peasant peasants to fend for themselves . this extreme free-market ideology , too , called a “ structural adjustment , ” went against the practical lessons of development successes in china and the rest of asia . the result has been the peasant productivity stagnant for decades . the bank has also pushed for the privatization of national health systems , water utilities and roads and power networks , and grossly underfinanced these critical sectors . a practical development strategy recognizes that public investment – in agriculture , health , education , and infrastructure – is necessary to supplement the private-sector investment .
in the run-up to next year ’s presidential election , putin will not hesitate to take on leeway foreign leaders give him . already , he has reassured putin that opposition leader alexei navalny was convicted of embezzlement , giving the government an excuse to bar him from the ballot . when the american betrays his own values to avoid challenging russia , it strengthens putin ’s hand considerably . putin ’s authority may appear an unshakeable , but in reality , he amounts to propped up propaganda and fear . in the run-up to next year ’s presidential election , putin will not hesitate to take over leeway foreign leaders give him .
throughout europe , calls for “ affordable energy ” are fast becoming a euphemism for expanded fossil-fuel subsidies and a rollback of green-energy commitments . today , us political leaders are openly attacking “ burdensome ” green taxes . recent debates in the uk illustrate the looming fault line . five years ago , britain breached the international mold by enacting legislation mandating an 80 % cut in greenhouse-gas emissions by 2050 . with energy-price shifting to the center stage , the already-weak incentives for low-carbon investment are likely to be further undermined .
moreover , the ccp can no longer count on rising prosperity to sustain public support . rampant corruption and rising inequality , together with obvious environmental decay , are causing ordinary chinese , particularly the middle class , which once had high hopes for reform , to become increasingly disillusioned . at the same time , given its rapid population aging , china ’s demographic dividend has all but dissipated . indeed , for all the practical purposes , pro-market reforms are dead broke down . a kleptocracy of government officials , their families , and well-connected businessmen colonized the chinese state and seeks to block any reform that might threaten their privileged status .
apart from another reasonably productive nuclear security summit in seoul in march 2012 , news on the disarmament front over the past year has certainly been dismal . negotiations to “ de-alert ” the 2,000 nuclear weapons that remain at an absurdly dangerous pace , cold war-era forward readiness have never really begun . further us-russia arms-reduction negotiations ground to a halt long before the us-russia presidential election season began . meanwhile , no other nuclear-armed state has expressed the slightest interest in bilateral or multilateral stop-go negotiations until the two major powers – which currently hold 95 % of the world ’s stockpile – make further major cuts . cautious initial forward moves by america to modify its nuclear doctrine – toward accepting that nuclear weapons ’ “ sole purpose ” to respond to the nuclear threat , and not to any other kind – have gone nowhere .
uribe ’s hostage rescue mission also drove chávez , the still recovering from his failed power-grab referendum of last year ( a moment when chávez ’s own military high command was reportedly rejecting his demand to fudge the result ) onto the defensive . in the process , he has transformed a country beset by the grip of drug barons and , on the verge of becoming a failed state . indeed , many farc defectors now prefer a fight over their cause at the ballot box under the new left-wing polo alternativo . the professionalism of colombia ’s armed forces , coupled with uribe ’s popularity and a surging economy , has delivered for the first time in three decades , normality to colombia ’s cities and , increasingly , peace and rule of law to much of their vast jungles brought on uribe ’s relentlessness , now down to 9,000 guerrillas from the peak of 16,000 year in 2001 . but the benefits of uribe ’s apparent defeat extend far beyond colombia .
but the fact remains that a significant share of the world ’s 30 million displaced children , 12 million of whom are refugees , will go to their school-age years , without ever setting foot in a single school . moreover , aside from mobilizing private sources of finance , we must make the who already available for aid ( $ 13 billion this year this year ) a lot further than it has in the past , by creating incentives for recipient governments to increase its own investment in education . throughout the world , the world ’s 35 conflict zones , with some 75 million children , are currently being denied both the education and the prospect of future employment . yet , with a $ 40 billion annual financing gap for primary and secondary education alone , there is also a strong idea that the us needs a new approach . clearly , the world ’s international aid to education is now on the rise .
and , indeed , a substantial share of greece ’s government debt migrated from banks to robust public institutions like the european central bank and the international monetary fund . the margin for error for the major banks and other financial institutions is narrow . because they remain not strongly capitalized , modest losses from direct defaults and indirect losses by firms with trading in greece can threaten to crowd out bank equity , causing bankers to cut back on lending . in that sense , those public institutions have already largely looted from private institutions . but the risks have not been removed , either .
last but not least , aids efforts have been effective in expanding , owing to the robust advocacy and collaborations that reshaped markets for use in diagnostic and treatment programs . by forecasting medications needs , aggregating orders , and promoting competition , in combination with intense advocacy , policymakers and providers have been able to hedge market efficiencies . as a result , these efforts have reduced the cost of annual hiv treatments ranging from just more than $ 10,000 per patient in 2001 to less than $ 100 in 2016 . the resulting economies of scale have enabled the shift from low volume , higher-volume solutions to higher-volume , low-margin profit models . for example , it would have been helpful for programs to track how many bloodletting had been diagnosed and placed on treatment , what proportion of those on treatment gained blood-pressure , and what level of treatment would be required to reduce premature deaths by a desired target .
to those confronting the prospect of death , what matters is access to life-saving drugs , not whether what kills a person is part of an epidemic . just before last year ’s us-cancun trade talks , america made some concessions to ensure that it was no longer the only holdout country . the global consensus , reflected in the commission 's report , calls for more exceptions so that , say , drugs can be made available in any case to make those who can do so could save a life . bilateral agreements form the basis of enhanced friendship ties among countries . yet , in its bilateral trade agreements , the us is demanding what is becoming known as " trips plus , " that would strengthen intellectual-property rights further , thereby ensuring that countries have the right to produce inexpensive generic drugs during epidemics and other emergencies .
without that exchange-rate adjustment , faster export-led growth would expose the chinese economy to the risk of overheating . and , if its exports are growing more rapidly , they may let the renminbi rise . as a result , chinese policymakers have been waiting to see whether america ’s recovery is real . if it succeeds , china ’s exports to the us will grow more rapidly . meanwhile , china ’s expenditure growth rate will not change dramatically .
broader national engagement – with ngos , local media , and a broad array of policymakers – is now viewed as an integral component of effective country-level advice and program implementation , as is vital to the fund ’s “ surveillance ” function under its articles of agreement . a similar pivot is needed if the imf is to deliver better across the supra-national issues that are migrating on its policy agenda . when i joined the imf in the early 1980s , discussions with nongovernmental counterparts , whether on country or policy work , became discouraged . the situation today is very different , and it is a good one . specifically , the fund would have to complement its traditional core constituency among governments and other multilateral institutions ( particularly the world bank ) with systemically influential and private-sector counterparts .
leila zerrougui , the un secretary-general ’s special representative for children and armed conflict , recommends designating abductions of children from schools a “ trigger of violation ” for the naming of terrorist organizations at the un secretary general ’s annual report to the un security council . and , thanks to the un ’s children fund ( unicef ) , the global coalition to protect education from attack , the global business coalition for education , and former nigerian finance minister ngozi okonjo-iweala , nigeria has now piloted the notion of a safe school . once slow to respond , the world is acting now . thirty countries have recently signed lucens or safe school guidelines instructing their military authorities how to stop the use of schools from serving as instruments of war . this has meant funding school guards , fortifications , and surveillance equipment to calm parents and pupils that everything possible is being done to ensure that their schooling is safe to participate .
because fiscal austerity implies more recessionary and deflationary pressures in the short run , one would need stronger monetary stimulus to compensate and more domestic demand growth – via delayed fiscal austerity – in germany . but the eurozone ’s two largest policy players – the european central bank and the german government – want none of this agenda , hoping that at some point a quarter of good gdp data make a positive trend . it is why spain and ireland are in serious trouble , and why even italy – on a relatively soundest fiscal footing but nonetheless still flat per capita income for a decade to come and a low of structural reform – can not be complacent . the rest of europe is in barely better shape than the periphery : the bond vigilantes might woken up in france , but economic performance there has been anemic at best , driven mostly by a mini housing boom . this is why greece is insolvent , and coercive restructuring of its public debt is unavoidable .
it is time for france to abandon the indulgence of the french exceptionalism ( the l’exception francaise ) and initiate serious reforms engaging with the french electorate . europeans thought that the french political class had the solution to humanity . yet europe and the eu could be increasingly catalysts for public resentment . jospin and chirac did nothing to implement the eu ’s large liberalization program ( including energy , financial services , and transport ) agreed among eu members in lisbon just two years ago , which implies the benefits of liberalization in the first place to be denied france at a time when the public perceives the eu as imposing all limits on the french way of doing business . still , the shame of le pen ’s newfound prominence can prove beneficial if she were pushing the mainstream political establishment to ignore popular concerns and address the country ’s difficulties .
an alternative scenario suggests that such fears emanate from the real issue . a modern versions of this explanation holds that the world changes so rapidly that national security and , indeed , national identity are under threat . in places like france and poland , which are worried about a national decline , people tend to blame somebody outside the country . there has certainly been a good deal of this type of sentiment back in the 1930s , when the populist reaction to the great depression ascribe it to the sinister forces of “ international capital . ” modern economic growth still depends in almost every advanced industrial country on imported energy ( norway is an exception ) .
in his attempt to counter arafat ’s levels of political corruption and micromanagement , abbas lost whatever chance he had to maintain the loyalty of fatah ’s leadership , newly appointed pa officials , security personnel , and , most important , local militants . calling for national elections while politically correct was political suicide , for he lacked any vision of a possible outcome , and he did very little to ensure fatah discipline . his other name , abu mazen , is not the revolutionary name but reflecting the practice of naming a person as the father of his eldest son . abbas ’s son , mazen , runs a local kgb operative agency . the attempt at the primaries to elect fatah ’s candidates backfired , owing to fraud and losers ’ refusal to honor the results .
new york – for four decades , ledra street in the heartland of nicosia has been a symbol of a divided cyprus . slowly , people who have not mingled for 44 years have begun to renew their ties to rediscover one another . last week , i visited the ledra street crossing that country ’s way . and then , two years ago this april , a wall that split capital into north and south opened . it was a window on what that future could bring .
but , if the proposals being discussed in beijing last month are realized , the resulting fta could surpass nafta in its levels of integration and significance to the world economy . furthermore , a china-japan-south korea fta would most likely trigger a chain-reaction . if that were to occur , other countries , australia , new zealand , and , most important , india – india – might seek to jump on the bandwagon . for example , market momentum could expand southward and spur asean , which contains bilateral ftas with all three countries to join . such a turn of events would be the equivalent of establishing the east asian free trade area that asean ’s +3 envisioned a decade ago .
compare this with the antibiotic treatments for , say , urogenital infections that lasts several weeks at most . some 50 million people are infected with tubercle bacilli that is fdr . as a result , adherence to tb drug therapy is especially weak , paving the way for the multidrug-resistant ( mdr ) tb that can no longer treat conventional therapeutic regimes . while treating mdr-tb remains possible , doing as it is arduous , with cures for roughly two years using drugs that are neither as efficient nor as benign as benign as the canonical drugs , and at a cost that arises through the factor of 10 or more . while this additional cost can be borne by health-care systems in the rich world , it is excessive to poor countries , implying no or no insufficient treatments .
in a country where money trumps democracy , such legislation has predictably become frequent . but rising inequality is not inevitable ; it is impossible to enact it . there are market-based economies that are doing better , in terms of both gdp growth and rising standards of living for the majority of citizens . of course , market forces also play a role , but markets are shaped by politics ; and , in america , with its quasi-corrupt campaign system of campaign finance and its revolving door between government and industry , politics is shaped by money . for example , a us bankruptcy law that privileges derivatives over all else but avoids discharge of student debt , regardless of the inadequate education provided , enriches bankers and impoverishes many at the bottom . there are market-based economies that do better on both gdp growth and rising living standards for the majority of citizens .
by contrast , former us secretary of state and democratic candidate hillary clinton and the prominent republican contender donald trump have opposed social security and medicare reform . with so few presidential candidates recognizing the connection between reforming social security and medicare and ensuring broadly shared prosperity , america is facing major risks . a progressive redistributive agenda could continue to advance , lest the conservative entitlement-reform agenda could fail . with so few presidential candidates having recognized the connection between reforming social security and medicare , and ensuring broadly shared prosperity , america faces profound risks . a progressive redistributive agenda could continue to advance , lest the conservative entitlement-reform agenda could fail .
the austrians are right that haider-like parties exist in many european countries , – in britain , france , even in some scandinavian countries . but , in all of these countries , the political discourse of any democratic party ostracized such racist groups and parties : british conservatives never entered an alliance with the british national front ; the same goes for france , where french conservatives had expelled their own party local leaders , who fashioned municipal alliances with le pen ’s incumbents . this is precisely what the austrian conservative people ’s party , under wolfgang schuessel , did n’t . there may be good political reasons why another alliance with the social democrats was not appealing to schuessel ’s party ( it now would not be chancellor in such a coalition ) . confronted with the election result of whether to rejoin the social democrats or haider freedom party , they made a haider faustian pact .
a military emergency , or an economic downturn , would call for additional debt-financed spending or tax reductions . it is hard to believe that a 97 % debt ratio would make that much more difficult to achieve than a 92 % debt ratio . a military emergency , or an economic downturn , would call additional debt-financed spending or tax cuts . the congressional budget office projects that even with further legislation , the debt-to-gdp ratio will rise to 91.2 % by 2027 . yet , even a massive expenditure program like the fed ’s $ 900 billion recovery and the reinvestment act of 2009 would have added only an additional three percentage points to the debt-to-gdp ratio .
the african union , too , responded promptly . its peace and security council met and expressed the au ’s categorical rejection of any attempt to create a fait accompli that undermines the electoral process . the economic community of west african states ( ecowas ) vigorously condemned any attempt to “ usurp a popular will by the people of côte d’ivoire and appeals to all parties to embrace the results declared by the electoral commission . ” ecowas chair and nigerian president goodluck jonathan challenged all party members for “ respect and fully realizing the verdict of the ivorian people as proclaimed by an independent electoral commission . ” and us president barack obama congratulated ouattara , saying that the world would “ hold those who act to thwart the democratic process and the willingness of the electorate accountable for its behavior . ”
indeed , the bitter legacy of the invasions of iraq and afghanistan , followed by the financial crisis of 2008 , made the united states not only reluctant to use its military might , even at a time when “ red lines ” are being crossed , but also apparently unwilling to shoulder any serious burdens of its global leadership position . yet , unless america is no longer willing to take the lead ? seoul – has the world entered a new era of chaos ? america ’s vacillating policy toward syria certainly seems to suggest so . china ’s leaders have shown their lack of interest in active global leadership by repeatedly denouncing calls to become a “ responsible stakeholder ” in the international political and economic system .
ethanol accounts for more than 50 % of the country ’s current light-vehicle fuel demand , and petrobras – brazil ’s energy giant and one of latin america ’s largest – expects that share to rise to more than 80 % by 2020 . a massive stimulus package prompted by the 1970 ’s in oil prices gave way to completely new industries . brazil tried to become an energy self-sufficient in energy in ways similar to other countries ’ modern efforts . but it would not work without the crucial role that competition plays . our research shows that industrial policies have been successful in fostering a competitive bioethanol industry in brazil .
the ilo makes it clear that children suffer enormously when they are being forced to perform as “ small adults . ” “ the child ’s creativeness and ability to transcend realities are blunted , ” states “ one ilo report , ” “ and his whole mental world is impoverished . ” indian fathers can occasionally repay their children ’s debts by committing their children to bonded labor . the sadly , family is often the latest in a protest exploitation by their children . indian fathers still sometimes repay their children to help them beguiling beggars .
but , despite its wealth and military might , america ’s ability to project political power – for good or ill – will decline in future years , for at least five reasons : america ’s budget is in crisis . the annual military budget that has increased by more than $ 150 billion since bush assumed office will need to be cut in coming years to bring the budget under control ; america is borrowing massively from abroad . asia ’s central banks purchase hundreds of billions of dollars of us securities , in addition to us treasury bills . japan alone has foreign exchange reserves of around $ 750 billion , much of that in america ’s us treasury bills . through bush ’s tax cuts and military expenditures , which contributed to budget deficits of $ 500 billion a year , america will need to raise taxes and limit budget spending , whether or not bush is reelected .
to be sure , there have long been policy efforts to undermine or even replace the us dollar as the dominant global reserve currency . indeed , the most seductive alternative appears to have been the gold standard . russian theorists of “ eurasia ” often tout traditional russian iconography ’s effect on a skin-fed metal use . in 2001 , then-malaysian prime minister mahathir mohamad tried to introduce a “ golden dinar ” as an answer to a us-headquartered currency system . so far , far from being a realm of cinematic fantasy , there have been no globally devastating monetary attacks .
if the assault persists , speculators may force a government to default on its debt unless it can find a way to finance its borrowing more cheaply . to be sure , a single short seller can not “ make ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” the price of an asset ( absent that it is , as george soros , whose notorious bet against the british pound in 1992 made him a billionaire and forced britain out of the european exchange-rate mechanism ) . but , if a bunch of speculators decide ( rightly or wrongly ) that a government ’s debt is overpriced , they can force down its price , thereby forcing its yields ( an interest rate that the government must pay ) . my gain for correctly assuming that this bearish view therefore comes to the € 1.65 m – the € 9.1 m that i got by selling your bonds when i borrowed on january 1 , minus the € 7.2 m that i had to pay to repurchase on june 30 , minus the € 250,000 in interest that i had to pay for goldman sachs ’s six-month loan . voilà – a successful “ short ” deal with him – has been successful .
to the extent that tariffs depress china ’s exports , the us government and the central bank can offset the economic impact by stimulating domestic demand . doubts about the chinese government ’s willingness to shift its economic policy from tightening to the stimulus have been dispelled in earlier weeks . clear statements from policymakers all the way up to xi ’s demand that china refrain from any further weakening of the us economy over the next year , even if that means accepting larger budget deficits or easing on bank deleveraging and monetary tightening . the slowdown in chinese economic growth this year was the result almost totally of deliberate decisions to deleverage the banking system , cut local governments ’ borrowing , curtail over-investment in infrastructure , and stave off booming house prices by tightening monetary policy . all of these austerity policies may easily be softened or reversed .
in the eighteenth century , shipping technology improved enough to enable the creation of global supply chains . africa ’s slaves were used to grow cotton in the south united states , which was then shipped to english mills . the finished cloth was then exported to the rest of the world . that was the age of the village population blacksmith , the weaver , potter , and cobbler . cotton was one of the first industries to witness this shift .
like a grassroots blade beneath a stone , culture knows how and in which direction to seek light . is it to be “ always represented ” by the lone political party ? it does not need to be “ reported . ” like the grass ’s blade beneath a stone , a culture knows how , and in which direction , one seeks light . i do not know what “ the progressive direction of advanced culture ” is , but the fact that advanced culture played none of the ccp-inspired “ wipe out its poison weeds campaigning , ” a “ anti-rightist movement , ” or that “ eliminate demons and evil heresy campaign . ”
these official attitudes have created significant suffering for africa ’s gays and lesbians . indeed , the price of homophobia for gays in many african countries has been painfully clear : regulatory sanctions , social ostracism , and mob justice . in 2006 , president olusegun obasanjo , then nigeria ’s president , was among the first to do . uganda ’s president yoweri museveni followed suit after signing an anti-gay bill into law in 2014 . other leaders , from the gambia to president yoahya jammeh to zimbabwe ’s robert mugabe , have spoken in the same vein .
china ’s explanation of its push to establish the aiib is its recognition that developing countries have inadequate access to capital for infrastructure . perhaps more important , they have an inadequate voice at the world bank , the international monetary fund , and the adb . still , the share of china , at around 30 % , will be the largest of the more than 57 participating countries , which could effectively give it a near-veto over the aiib ’s decisions . that underscores a key concern among development economists and observers of international relations as the aiib ’s birth approaches . will it turn the swiss bank , the brics countries , and the bank for china ; or will it pursue a multilateral agenda in its manner , the world bank and regional development banks like the asian development bank ( adb ) , and the africa development bank ( afdb ) ?
at the international monetary fund ’s annual meeting in october , the fund ’s chief economist , olivier blanchard , fueled the controversy by pointing out that , in recent times , governments have tended to understate the adverse growth consequences of fiscal consolidation . they typically assumed that to cut public spending by a dollar would cut gdp by about 50 cents in the short run ; on the short run , according to blanchard , the effective outcome in current conditions implies a decline from about $ 0.90-1.70 in 2003 . that is a huge gap , but it is also a perplexing finding : how can there be such a large amount of uncertainty ? contrary to what such forecasting disparities might suggest , economists in fact know very well the effects of fiscal policy , at least far more than they used to know . until the 1980 ’s , it routinely assumed that the so-called “ multiplier ” – the ratio of gdp alterations to changes in government spending – was stable and larger than it was .
but , because the public is educated about the specific threats that nuclear weapons continue to pose to the cities in which they live , that attitude will become increasingly difficult to maintain . at the same time , people worldwide must stop regarding one another as untrustworthy enemies . to make matters worse , suggestions about their real use have emerged . for too long , cities ’ inhabitants have been used as pawns on a global nuclear chessboard , with little concern for the full ramifications of the playing field . military planners who consider the use of nuclear weapons have probably given scant thought to those living in their cities on their targets lists .
these groups were able to capitalize on the economic and social pain felt in many eu member states , particularly given the overwhelming majority of europeans are unconvinced that the worst is over . and the massive prosperity gap between “ old ” and “ new ” eu member states continues to determine voting patterns . the influence of widening disparities between the eu ’s affluent “ north ” and the stumbling “ south ” with france in the center ( but heading for south ) has also been apparent . moreover , right-wing populist parties have seized on growing public frustration with the eu itself . many european citizens are opposed to the idea of a “ more europe , ” the eu ’s mantra of traditionalists in the two main party families , the european people ’s party ( epp ) , and the social democrats .
they raise their spectacles filled with a finest scotch sprinkled with a fine powder . not gold powder , as lesser moguls might have offered , nor even the purest cocaine . no , this is far rarer and costlier : it is pulverized the white rhino horn . a half-century ago , white rhinos was abounded across africa . today , the international union for conservation of nature estimates that only 25,000 still roam the continent , mostly in south africa , with only a handful in namibia and kenya .
dubai – the global financial crisis has taught the world just how profoundly interdependent us economies have become . in today ’s crisis of extremism , we need to recognize that we are only as an interdependent with our security that is apparent , as it is clear in the present struggle to defeat isis . the world must unite behind a holistic drive to discredit the ideology that conveys extremists and rebuild the hope and dignity of those that they would recruit . if we are to prevent isis from teaching us that lesson the hard way , we must acknowledge that we can not quell fires of fanaticism by force alone . isis certainly can – and will – be defeated militarily by an international coalition that is now assembling , and which the uae actively supports .
this year ’s nobel prize in economic sciences went to george akerlof of the university of california at berkeley , michael spence of stanford university , and myself for our work on `` information asymmetry . '' what is this work about , and why did we commit it ? for two hundred years , economists have used simple economic models that assumed that information was perfect -- that is , that all participants share and transparent insights into the relevant factors . they recognized that information was by no means perfect , but hoped that a world with moderate information imperfections could be akin to a world with perfect information . we showed that this notion was ill-founded : even small information imperfections could have profound consequences for how the economy behaved . we showed that the notion was ill-founded : even small information imperfections could have profound implications for how the economy behaved .
we are accustomed to thinking of governments transferring their money from the well off to the poor . never again , that much of the money was simply transferred from so many to so few . under the threat of the whole system ’s collapse , the safety net – intended to help the unhappy individuals meet the life-prolonging conditions – was extended generously to commercial banks , then to investment banks , insurance firms , auto companies , even car-loan companies . the bankers ’ pursuit of self-interest ( greed ) led not to society ’s well-being ; nor did they serve their shareholders and bondholders well . it certainly did not serve homeowners , losing their homes , workers losing their jobs , pensioners who saw their retirement funds vanish , or taxpayers , who bailed out hundreds of billions to bail out the banks .
that approach would adhere to the principle that us president barack obama highlighted when announcing the latest round of sanctions against russia last month that ukraine must be authorized to “ chart its own path . ” the practical outcome , ukraine remaining unaligned in its military and security terms , would reflate the will of ukraine as a whole . more importantly , it would help ukraine ’s people , divided between their inherently antagonistic identities – to live together peacefully . what matters most is that the us constitution requires a super-majority – rather than , say , an easily reversible “ non-bloc ” resolution that ukraine ’s parliament adopted in 2010 , that ukraine must join a military alliance . above all , it would help ukraine ’s people , divided between their inherently antagonistic identities – to live together peacefully .
on a institutional front , long-term reform should aim for a shift to a service-based pension system that is based on individual saving accounts , as has happened in chile , opposed to the current run on the state run , pay-as-you-go pension systems . the public should understand the crucial distinction between a one-time transfer of resources to old workers from the start of market reform to a long run of pension policies . under any viable long-run arrangement , the level of benefits relative to wages should be reduced ; the retirement ages must be raised to international norms ; and eligibility to special pensions ( disability ones , especially ) should be tightened to cover only those truly in need . political elites -- at home and from abroad -- will need to shift the public ’s attention to the looming fiscal crunch . in any viable long-term term , the level of benefit relative to wages should be reduced ; the retirement ages should be raised to international norms ; and eligibility to special pensions ( disability ones , especially ) should be tightened to cover only the truly in need .
but that may well follow the second stage in which tight labor markets , populist nationalism , and industrial concentration begin to compensate for the one-time structural effects of new technologies that will be widely adopted . as with most paradigm shifts , little certainties regarding the timing of such a scenario can be found . but either way , policymakers in advanced economies must recognize that their inflation-targeting outlook is subject to a wider range of dynamic possibilities than they have been felt so far . focusing too much on counter-cyclical , rather than structural , risks to the future of economic well-being and financial stability . and , in the third phase , the possible onset of higher inflation may catch policymakers and investors by surprise , producing the short-run reactions that make a bad situation worse .
the same goes for implementing the 2015 paris climate agreement , which will require ample investment in energy efficiency and renewable-energy sources to keep global temperatures from rising more than 2º celsius . the un ’s manifold agendas – peace and security , sustainable development , human rights , and humanitarianism – must be structurally integrated into a single strategic continuum , rather than the remaining rigid , self-serving institutional silos . the multidisciplinary “ un ” team could be deployed in the field to crack down on departmental barriers and to confront appropriate challenges . the groups would operate under a common mandate across all un agencies and are led by un operations directors in each country . a fifth step should be to integrate women fully and equally into every part of the un ’s agenda , not only in discrete areas pertaining to “ women-” issues .
with an estimated 268 million people in extreme poverty in its latest survey of 2011 , india is home to one of the largest absolute number of poor people on the planet . for india , the cost adds nearly $ 11 billion to the exchange-rate regime . in the drc , 77 % of the population is exceptionally poor and falls the dollar short of the poverty line , on average . the democratic republic of the congo and nigeria would be the most expensive countries where to end extreme poverty would be the democratic republic of congo and nigeria . each account for 38 cents per day below the extreme-poverty line .
more fiscal space can be generated through improved governance and a strengthening of the tax base and , for the poorest countries , by achieving additional stable official development assistance ( oda ) channeled through national budgets . pro-cyclical fiscal adjustment tends to stimulate a short-run orientation toward economic policies that limits long-term growth , essentially because it supports investment in infrastructure and human capital . indeed , with oda undetermined by geopolitics , it can have a powerful positive effect on long-term growth , essentially because it supports investment in infrastructure and human development . nevertheless , in recent decades , macroeconomic policy in most developing countries has become more pro-cyclical , largely exacerbated by the volatility of international financial markets and commodity prices . finally , institutional reform encompasses more than the creation of markets and guaranteeing property rights .
coca cultivation has been slashed by a quarter over the last five years , with cocaine seizures nearly doubling . a “ white lady ” appeals to a steadily growing number of europeans ; and remaining in a state of denial will only worsen the consequences . but now the demand for cocaine in much of the world is stable or falling . european leaders need to achieve serious action on europe ’s cocaine problem . the cocaine used to be america ’s problem , to the point that the united states initiated a major campaign against vendors and consumers of crack cocaine in its inner cities , drug traffickers , and suppliers in the andes .
berkeley – it has now been one year since donald trump was elected president of the united states , and america ’s democratic institutions are clearly under stress . a mere 20 % of americans now trust the federal government to “ do the right thing , ” while trust in the us congress has fallen to less than 9 % . yet state and local governments remain trusted by a majority of voters , with the power under the tenth amendment of the american constitution to consolidate their democratic institutions . according to some pessimists , the american constitution has not been intended to address the challenges of a country so sharply divided by incomes , race , and partisanship . among congressional republicans , in particular , a “ take-no-prisoners ” extremism undermines the federal government ’s capacity for action , which is precisely what many on the far right want .
the european parliament has steadily denounced belarus as europe ’s last dictatorship ; yet eu member governments continue business as usual with aleksander lukashenka , the country ’s wayward and near lunatic despot . for example , for more than a decade , germany ’s police forces , the customs service , and even the bundeswehr have been ordering uniforms from the state-owned enterprise plant in babylherzinsky ’s town , named after the father of the red terror and the soviet-era kgb founder , feliks dzherzinsky . similar examples of such indifferent cynicism abound , too . the european parliament has persistently denounced belarus as europe ’s last dictatorship ; yet eu member governments continue business as usual with aleksander lukashenka , the country ’s wayward and near lunatic despot . by treating lukashenka as favored business partners simultaneously that the eu is trying to insulate him as an international pariah , european hypocrisy stands naked .
there would be a “ fiscal deal , ” ” which would reinforce the stability and growth pact , and , importantly , entail automatic sanctions aimed at ensuring that eurozone members stick to these rules . but , in december , there was a degree of decisive action to take place . bond yields in southern european countries soared , and a pervasive sense of apprehension and cloaked governments in european capitals . finally , there were renewed decisive action in december . at the same time , the european central bank unleashed its € 1 trillion ( $ 1.3 trillion ) long-term refinancing operation , which pulled europe ’s banking system back from the brink .
an analysis by ronald gilson , henry hansmann , and brazil ’s mariana pargendler of brazil ’s novo mercado – the stock exchange ’s special voluntary listing segment , which provides powerful protections for investors in newly listed companies , supports this view . but stock exchanges have limits , particularly in brazil . in the absence of reliable courts , they can not sue to enforce their regulations . their sole risk-taking is to push recalcitrant firms off the exchange . the novo mercado has resolved this problem by subjecting the disputes involving its newly-listed firms to arbitration .
new york – january is traditionally a time for assessing earlier this year ’s looming developments , in order to anticipate what the new one has in store . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime ; but it does not augur all-out war . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to america ’s interests elsewhere in the world . unfortunately , though we may be at a turning point for better politically , the data that emerged over the past month do not paint a promising picture of the global economy ’s short-term prospects .
but , again , this contradicts traditional trade dynamics , in which one country ’s achievement does not imply hardship for another . in fact , the proliferation of europe ’s highly specialized universities has so far failed to buttress economic growth or employment . and the conversion of comprehensive universities into specialized science and technology institutes in the soviet union and communist china has done nothing to avert its economic calamity in those economies . in theory , of course , the simultaneous shift in a number of countries toward stem-focused secondary and higher education – with wide concomitant productivity gains – could reduce the competitiveness of an economy that has made not such an effort . but , again , this contradicts traditional trade dynamics , in which one country ’s success does not imply any hardship for another .
first , all were driven by a profound social-welfare state crisis : falling output , rising unemployment , large budget deficits , high budget deficits , low inflation and devaluation . without a severe crisis , no major reform was likely , as was too often the case . second , a change in government through elections prompted reform and gave them democratic legitimacy . reform need not require a state of emergency , as is too often the case in the future . third , reforms called for a strong leader , so that government can support government debt .
true , with profitability at or near record levels , the corporate sector ’s cash holdings in the united states have amassed quarter after quarter after quarter , reached all-time highs , and earning very little at today ’s near-zero interest rates . but , rather than deploy their plentiful cash for new investments to expand capacity and tap new markets – which they have been deeply hesitant to do since the global financial crisis erupted – many companies have so far favored ( or have been pressured by activist investors ) to yield it back to shareholders . moreover , because companies have vastly enhanced their operational efficiency and lengthening maturities on their debt , what is really needed is a lot of precautionary savings than has been done in the past . nonetheless , one gets the sense , the corporate sector in advanced economies generally – and in particular – is as robust as it was for many years . non-financial firms have achieved a mix of resilience and agility that contrasts sharply with prevailing conditions for some households and governments worldwide that have so far faced adequately a legacy of over-leverage .
the same goes for turkey , with its robust banking sector , a thriving domestic market , growing importance for the middle east and energy politics , nato membership , the european union ’s membership bid , and ties to its ethnic cousins across central asia . perhaps the most compelling case of all is the fact that indonesia , the world ’s largest muslim state , with a rapidly expanding middle class , a relatively stable middle class , a relatively stable democratic politics , and an economy that has been star performer throughout asia despite a global recession . from an american perspective , indonesia represents an attractive alternative to russia , which recently occupied venezuela for leadership of a “ america in decline ” cheering section . the same is true of turkey , with its robust banking sector , a thriving domestic market , growing significance for the middle east and energy politics , nato ’s membership of the european union ’s membership bid , and ties to its ethnic cousins across central asia . moreover , indonesia has shown resilience not only economically , but also as a nation .
a good example is the allegation that the “ responsibility to protect ” ” ” principle is inherently flawed , because major powers will always be immune from intervention , not only because the five can exercise a security council veto , but also because of its inherent military strength . but this ignores the principle that no military intervention will ever be legitimate unless it satisfies , among other criteria , a test of diminishing , rather than augmenting , human suffering , and going to war against any of the major powers to protect the suffering minority would surely trigger a much broader conflagration . no state that aspires to win support or collaboration with others can afford to be seen as comfortable with unambiguous double standards . the bottom line is that values matter in international relations , with states that place a high emphasis on promoting values are extremely vulnerable to charges of hypocrisy . and , worst of all , it is to be perceived as soft on those who , like egypt ’s current military rulers , are committing mass-atrocity crimes against their own citizens .
likewise , the last thing cambodia needs is to risk economic reprisal to help chinese firms dodge us tariffs . yet that seems to be precisely what hun sen ’s government plans to do . already , the country ’s deteriorating record on democracy and human rights threatens its corporate tariff-free access to europe ’s market , provided through the bloc ’s “ everything but arms ” scheme . the ssez ’s recent denial that any company operating there was fined the us reinforces a suspicion that hun sen ’s government will continue to turn a blind eye . that might be good for the corrupt few , but it is bad for cambodia .
new mediocre ” the global economy risks becoming stuck with the “ new mediocre ” – a prolonged period of slow growth and feeble job creation . to break free from stagnation , we need renewed policy momentum . yet some of the main economies are still fighting deflation , which is on the rise . more than 200 million people are unemployed , more than 90 % of the global population . if the measures that the leaders assembled at the g20 in november are implemented in november , they will lift world gdp by more than 2 % by 2018 , the equivalent of adding about $ 2 trillion to global income .
it endorses policies that capture precisely the relationship between “ nato from areas of operation ” and nato members ’ commitment to their mutual self-defense under article 5 of the north atlantic treaty . the albright report tries to address these questions in a more balanced way . it endorses policies that capture precisely the relationship between “ nato operations ” and members of nato ’s commitment to their mutual self-defense under article 5 of the north atlantic treaty . what relations should nato have with its partners ? it endorses policies that capture precisely the relationship between “ nato operations ” and members ’ commitment to their mutual self-defense under article 5 of the north atlantic treaty .
one is north korea , whose recent behavior has been smart and delusional . japan officially endorses the objective of a non-nuclear world , but relies on america ’s extended nuclear deterrent and wants to avoid facing north korea ’s nuclear blackmail ( or with china as a whole ) . the north koreans violated their agreements , knowing that china , a country with the greatest potential leverage , is most concerned about regime collapse by north korea , and thus the threat of chaos across its borders . japan officially endorses the objective of the non-nuclear world , but relies on america ’s extended nuclear deterrent and wants to avoid facing up to north korea ’s nuclear blackmail ( or to do so ) . but it is a mistake to believe that extended deterrence rests on parity in the number of nuclear weapons .
berkeley – back in the late 1990s , in america , at least two schools of thought have pressed more financial deregulation – that is , for repealing the legal wall of investment banking from commercial banking , relaxing banks ’ capital requirements , and stimulating a more aggressive buildup and use of derivatives . if deregulation looks like such a bad idea now , why has n’t it been so wrong then ? the first school of thought , broadly so the united states ’ republican party , was that financial regulation is bad , because all regulation is bad . the second , broadly that the democratic party ’s party was somewhat more complicated , was based on four observations : · first , it had more than 60 years since financial disruptions had more than a minor impact on overall production and employment .
the democrats ’ core message for the next two years should be that in a plutocracy , everybody else is losing . the democrats ’ core message for the next two years should be that in a plutocracy , everybody else is losing . and it might even persuade some of the angry , poor trump ’s supporters to recognize that his pseudo-populism is not about to help the left behind by folks in rust belt cities and the rural hinterlands . it ’s about giving so much money to the very few . concentrating on egalitarianism would , of course , appeal to liberals ; but it should n’t alienate moderate voters , either , because more equality would make the economy good .
similarly , trump has mused that he could bully iran by abandoning the joint comprehensive plan of action ( mop ) and by imposing severe sanctions . but neither desire to be a “ chicken , ” either because that would undermine their domestic political standing and empower the other side . still , with no deal in year ’s end , a clash is likely . as game changks ticks down , a wrong outcome becomes more likely . but iranians have reacted by escalating their regional provocations , knowing full well that trump can not afford full-scale war and the subsequent oil-price spike that would result from it .
in the last two months , scaf ’s behavior toward civilian politicians , civil-society actors , and , more recently , the coptic community has signaled a clear change of attitude : “ you need the immunity , guidance , and protection of the us , rather than the us . ” but the scaf has now come to realize that , in a leaderless situation , no civilian politician can grant immunity without becoming vulnerable to attack by its rivals . as a result , there is a growing belief within the scaf that its three party ’s “ minimal ” demands have become both wasteful and insufficient . the challenges of political polarization , sectarian incidents , a weak economy , and security lack of security have dimmed egypt ’s prospects for a successful democratic transition . as a result , there is a growing belief within the scaf that its three “ minimal ” demands have become both pointless and insufficient .
paying interest to them requires sending more goods and services to the rest of the world than the us receives from the rest of the world . by the end of the decade , america will have to pay the sum equivalent of more than one-third of the revenues from personal-income taxes just to pay interest on its national debt . that requires a weaker dollar to make us goods more attractive to foreign buyers , and make foreign goods more expensive to american consumers . more than half of that debt is now held by us multinationals , and the us now holds more than half of that debt . higher debt-service costs require higher tax rates , which in turn weaken incentives and depress economic growth .
ahmadinejad stands for a policy of confrontation and partial isolation ; moussavi stands for more openness . if ahmadinejad prevails , the dilemma for the west will be that it will have to deal with a regimes discredited by election fraud , yet remains indispensable for resolving almost all of the middle east ’s important problems : iran ’s own nuclear program and the conflicts in afghanistan , pakistan , lebanon , and palestine . iran is also a key player in cooling its hot spots in the caucasus and central asia . indeed , aside from matters of domestic politics and the issue of internal liberty , the choice among the main contenders hinges on the question of whether iran should strive for greater international integration . a “ open country ” policy would thus quickly put the regime ’s very existence at risk .
perhaps the most visible gains came on the external front , after all . exports jumped from 5 % to more than 30 % of gdp , and gdp ’s share of inward foreign direct investment ( fdi ) tripled . if ever there were a country that ranks the poster child of the new orthodoxy of economic development , mexico was mexico . but where it counts , in its overall productivity and economic growth – the story is one of substantial disappointment . since 1996 , per capita economic growth has averaged well over 1.5 % – and total factor productivity has stagnated or declined .
and bilateral or regional trade deals may chip away at some of the barriers in the current global system . after all , many asian countries have achieved impressive export-led growth under their current system . services such as education , banking , accountant , and insurance account for an ever-larger share of global output ( now approximately two thirds ) , and further expansion will demand big changes within the existing agreements . a more fundamental problem , for example , is that the very nature of global trade continues to evolve , with existing agreements having only limited adjustment capacity . even if asia has been successful by relentlessly exporting manufactures , today ’s poorest countries , particularly in africa , can realistically export only agriculture and textiles .
most of the time , pain occurs after simple nerve endings detect tissue injury in various ways , generating signals that travel to a spinal cords and from there to the brain . for many years , researchers thought that these signals traveled along a small number of well-defined routes to reach a relay station in a brain known as a thalamus . from there , researchers believed , signals went on to the portion of the brain ’s cortex that managed body awareness , and somehow the cortex turned them into conscious experiences . from there , researchers believed that signals went on to the portion of the brain ’s cortex that managed body awareness , and , somehow , the cortex that has transformed them into conscious experiences . a contemporary un medical writer described the qualities of acute pain as including the extreme unpleasantness , the ability to annihilate complex thoughts and other emotions , the ability to destroy language , and the strong resistance to objectification .
when capital flight forced françois mitterrand to re-ort his program in 1983 , france ’s socialists performed an abrupt volte-face and embraced large-scale financial liberalization . the first stopped was the european union in the late 1980 ’s , which held that two french socialists – jacques delors and pascal lamy ( the president of the european commission and his assistant , respectively ) – led that way . in the end , the imf joined the bandwagon under michel camdessus , another frenchmen who had served as governor of france ’s bank of france under mitterrand . according to the harvard business school ’s rawi abdelal , this was a key event that set in motion developments that ultimately would enshrine free capital movements as a global norm . then it was the turn of the economic cooperation and development organization .
the men in the barricades were persuaded to abandon their stronghold ; the insurrectionary leaders were either detained or escaped to spain . the defeat of the military revolt was the first time , as reflected in the pieds to which the republican authority of paris helped bring down the fourth republic . de gaulle ’s firmness and rhetoric aided , one must note , by fumbling of insurgents – established the state ’s primacy . within 15 minutes of a general ’s face fading from screen , 40 army units in algeria declare their loyalty . the next day , the face of de gaulle was pulled , but it was resolute and full-throated in energy .
did the israelis really want a resurgence of islamist violence in gaza , the potential collapse of peaceful politics on the west bank , and now the right of the recognized palestinian state to take israel to the international criminal tribunal for war crimes ? if not , then , why are they ham-fisted ? israel appears to be making the same mistake that others have made . so it has been proven repeatedly that military intimidation of civilian civilians does not break their morale and turn them against its own leaders , however appalling the regime . indeed , palestine ’s diplomatic promotion offered it a lifeline to him .
the un will play a central role in the reconstruction of a labour government in this country , and in coordinating humanitarian aid to the afghan people . the un ’s growing role in this process puts the seal of international law and diplomacy over the global struggle against terrorism and helping to calm the many countries that it represents , true international efforts , not just america acting alone . fourth , the war in afghanistan has not only proceeded rapidly on the ground ; it has also led to a diplomatic breakthrough , just as it did . while these appear to be the grab-bag of accomplishments , they point to a single message : the global community does find new ways to cooperate , even against a backdrop of terrorism and global recession . the un ’s growing role in this process puts the seal of international law and diplomacy over the global struggle against terrorism , and helps calm the many countries that it represents for a true international effort , not just america acting alone .
here , brazil is no different from the united kingdom , spain , or uruguay . with the exception of barely practical political rhetoric from leaders like hugo chávez in venezuela and evo morales in bolivia , there is nothing new to offer in the world ’s electoral marketplace that differentiates very little from what is typically called neo-liberalism or the washington consensus . indeed , brazil ’s upcoming election this year is like a soccer match among the large teams , in which supporters of one candidate and another solely distinguished according to their “ shirts ” colors , given that the world ’s strongest teams accept the rules of the game , and even tactics are somewhat similar . here , brazil is no different from the united kingdom , spain , or uruguay . according to the socialist sociologist francisco de oliveira , the coldness of the electoral landscape is deeply related to one reality : its “ irrelevance ” of policy in politics because of its “ financiarisation . ”
but the most important changes must come from within the media industry itself . if reporters are using their platforms to inform the world about the dangers they and their fellow colleagues face , the world will need to listen . with press attacks intensifying , the old approach , prideful silence , no longer makes economic sense . violence against journalists has historically been an topic left behind by headlines . because journalists ’ safety directly affects news organizations ’ staff , freelancers , and audiences , those organizations should report on the topic .
rome – back in 2010 , global leaders accomplished the millennium development goal ( mdg ) of cutting the share of the world ’s poor to near half its 1990 level – five years ahead of schedule . yet rising unemployment and falling incomes understate the enduring poverty threat worldwide . but the world bank ’s poverty line of $ 1.25 a day ( in purchasing-power-parity terms ) , which uses progress toward the mdgs ’ poverty-reduction goal , is not the only relevant threshold . even so , rising unemployment and falling incomes understate the enduring poverty threat worldwide . after all , poverty is not the unchanging attribute of a fixed group ; it is status quo that threatens billions of vulnerable people . yet , despite their shortcomings , income measures are helpful in gaining a level of better understanding of the scale of poverty and vulnerability worldwide .
and an abundance of policy and regulatory uncertainties will keep private investment spending in check . true , there is the looming risk of secular stagnation in many advanced economies , owing to the adverse impact of productivity growth on years of under-investment on human and physical capital . and the structural reforms required by these economies to boost their potential growth will be undertaken too slowly . the outlook for 2014 is dampened the longer-term constraints as well . while the eurozone ’s tail risks are lower , its underlying problems remain unsolved : low potential growth ; high unemployment ; still-high and rising levels of public debt ; loss of competitiveness and a slow reduction of unit labor costs ( which is a strong euro ) ; and extraordinarily tight limits on credit rationing , owing to banks ’ ongoing deleveraging .
yes , cyprus needs € 17 billion to stay in the eurozone , whereas its annual gdp is only € 23 billion . but these figures need to be very close to the eu ’s gloomy global energy picture – something that the ongoing debt negotiations have failed to do . the sheer magnitude of cyprus ’s likely energy-wealth and the financing needed to develop dwarfs the country ’s current financial woes . but realizing that value is a long-term proposition is a long-term proposition . more immediately , to get gas to market in europe and elsewhere , gas-liquefaction costing approximately € 10 billion ( $ 390 billion ) needs to build up , and israeli investors have already expressed interest .
syriza is hardly alone in blaming the eu for the country ’s woes . new democracy and pasok are doing much the same , attacking the eu , its “ speculators ” ( and hedge funds ) , and anyone who might divert the public ’s focus from its own responsibility for causing the crisis . thus , most tv channels speak of a bailout deal just as tsipras does : as the proximate cause of austerity , a result of neoliberal dogma . as a result , for too many people in greece , austerity reflects germany ’s deranged obsession with discipline , not their country ’s profligacy . greece ’s largest private media , controlled by the country ’s oligarchs , are happy to oblige .
but america ’s dwindling leverage can not match that of the region ’s asif of evil . lebanon is all too vulnerable to pressure from syria and iran , neither of which wants to see their local clients ease the burden on the “ lebanese front ” from the burden of the burden of the “ lebanese front ” from its own grievances . nor is hezbollah keen to see israel end up its occupation of sheba farms on lebanon ’s border undermine its claim to the formidable , independent military force that it has built with iranian and syrian help . israel ’s shift in policy toward syria and that of french president nicolas sarkozy has been a powerful message to the americans that they should not miss the lebanese train in the same way . after all , it was tiny in qatar that brokered lebanon ’s domestic settlements ; egypt , which mediated the gaza cease-fire ; and turkey , which is facilitating israeli-syrian talks .
but , with clarida ’s input , the fed will be far more inclined to focus on actual inflation trends , rather than on the official unemployment rate and its implications under traditional models . moreover , while fed employees tend to believe that america ’s economy ’s potential gdp growth rate is very low ( around 1.75-2 % ) , clarida such as powell ’s , seems open to the idea that trump ’s tax cuts and deregulatory policies combined with the next wave of technological innovation will allow for somewhat stronger , non-inflationary growth . finally , clarida is spearheading an internal strategy revision to determine whether the fed should start making enough of below-target inflation during recessions and slow recoveries by allowing above-target inflation during expansionary period . taken together , these factors suggest that the fed could stay in pause mode for the remainder of 2019 . and , though the review is still at its early stages , the fed has already appears to have embraced the idea that inflation should be allowed to surpass 2 % without immediately triggering a tightening .
they are governments , and therefore taxpayers and bondholders , that finance nuclear plants . at fukushima , for example , the bill will include the cost of heroic efforts by hundreds of workers to cool down the plant ’s reactors ; a protracted loss of economic output in the 20-kilometer exclusion zone ( estimated at $ 128.5 billion by rubles to rubles ) ; decommissioning and clean-cooking costs ; and the cost of a replacement of the 4.7 gigawatts of generating capacity . moreover , the supposed “ cost saving ” ” cost-saving ” of nuclear power never includes the price tag for the direct and indirect governmental subsidies , the decommissioning of aging facilities , and the emergency cleanup and remediation of impacted communities when calamities arise , again at taxpayers ’ expense . on top of that comes the possibility of health-care costs stemming from the exposure of radioactivity . all of these hidden costs make the price of nuclear energy higher than the price of shifting to renewable energies and improved energy efficiency .
but clear rules of engagement are necessary . the most important principle that must uphold is the distinction between hearing someone and honoring someone . this would run counter to what us universities stand for . as a pragmatic matter , it would also take off , by giving the trump camp another opportunity to demonize the “ liberal elite . ” the most pragmatic principle that it could uphold is the distinction between hearing someone and honoring someone .
new york – like the inmate on death row , europe has received yet another last-minute stay of execution . markets celebrated , as they gave up each of the four prior “ europe ’s crisis ” ” ” ” summits , until they came to understand that the fundamental problems had so far recognized . there was good news at that summit : europe ’s leaders finally grasped that the bootstrap operation by which europe lends money to its banks to rescue failed sovereigns , and sovereigns to rescue the banks will not work . likewise , they are now recognizing that bailout loans that yield new lender seniority over other lenders worsen the position of private investors , who will simply demand even higher interest rates . it will survive a little for the rest of the world , and it will not .
munich – the german constitutional court has delivered its long-awaited decision on the european central bank ’s “ outright monetary transactions ” program . thousands of germans have appealed to the constitutional court against the omt program , arguing that it violates article 123 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union that bars monetary financing of eurozone governments – and that imposes substantial risks on german citizens as taxpayers . but , rather than issuing a formal ruling that will constrain both the bundesbank and the german parliament , as it may have been doing , the court has asked the european court of justice to hold its stance . ever since its launch in 2012 , the omt program has allowed the ecb to purchase , if necessary , unlimited amounts of troubled eurozone countries ’ government bonds , given that the affected countries subscribe to the rules of europe ’s rescue fund , the european stability mechanism . now , the court has proclaimed that it fully approves the plaintiffs ’ arguments , and that the omt program actually violates eu primary law .
and the tax on capital gains has fallen by more than 50 % since the late 1980s . when investment is in upstream basic research , spillover effects across industries and sectors sometimes produce enough social rewards . but other cases might require the creation of alternative incentives . to build support for higher-risk innovation , perhaps taxpayers should receive a more straightforward return , by channeling the profits into the public innovation fund to fund the next wave of technologies . for example , some of the gains from the us government ’s investment in tesla could have recovered via share buybacks ( or royalty ) and used to cover up the losses from its investment in solyndra .
complicating matters further , both the european commission and the european council will each have the new president and the leadership teams of their own , and the european parliament will have seated a new generation of politicians who failed to participate in the previous decade ’s compromises and reform . on the contrary , many will be elected in a political environment of agitation , diminished trust , and intra-eu fragmentation . unless the ecb ’s next leaders meet them , europe will be at risk . yet there is a broad consensus that the eurozone will need more than monetary policy to ensure continued growth and stability in the eurozone as a whole . clearly , with interest-rate rates at the zero bound , more “ monetary/fiscal-policy coordination ” is the need .
we should recall earlier accusations by russians of the west ’s role in fomenting america ’s “ color revolutions ” in ukraine and the georgian . in fact , those regimes began to wield social media for their ends . now , we have heard the accusation that russia covertly used social media to influence electoral outcomes in ukraine , france , germany , and , most famously , the united states . facebook has estimated that russian content on its network , including posts and paid ads , has reached 126 million americans , approximately 40 % of the population . in the event , most social media-enabled popular uprisings have failed to wish for effective leadership , with traditional political and military organizations continuing to hold the top .
in 2005 , mahmoud ahmadinejad relied on khamenei ’s financial and political support to win the presidency . today , however , khamenei profoundly regretful about that choice . ahmadinejad disobeys his orders , tries to discredit him with the public by challenging his authority and undermining key institutions , including the judiciary and the parliament . ahmadinejad disobeys his orders , tries to discredit him with the public by challenging his authority and undermining key institutions , including the judiciary and parliament . in 2005 , mahmoud ahmadinejad relied on khamenei ’s financial and political backing to win the presidency .
but it is unclear whether china ’s leaders will recognize this and act in their country ’s own long-term self interest . and it is not just the developing and emerging countries that must rethink their global approach . the bottom line is not to just be a unified out of china . similar questions are being applied to india and brazil . the us , for its part , must do just that .
nor should we worry that some people are wealthier than others . yet , on the level of individual societies , i believe that inequality runs as a serious , political-economic problem . some people are working harder , applying their intelligence more skillfully ; or they have simply been lucky enough to be in the right place at the very least . but i do not see what an alternative political-economic arrangements could force individuals ’ relative wealth closely in line with their relative moral or other merit . the problems that can be tackled are those involving poverty and social insurance — of providing a safety net — not of inequality .
not everyone at the sec is just as sensible as stein . this needs to be done as a tech matter , not as part of the political process . but the real danger is that powerful lobbies operating through congressional members are pushing back hard against the fsoc and its mandate . there is also some friction among america ’s various regulators , and it is sure to require more coordination across national borders , including with europe as a whole . more broadly , though her point is that the us needs the fsoc to do its job – to look for and assess all kinds of potentially systemic risks .
when the results were reported , their euphoria was overwhelming . iohannis may also have benefited , to some degree , from an association in the voters ’ minds with the german hohenzollern kings , who ruled romania unjustly and with dedication for more than 80 years . and , indeed , upon learning of his victory , iohannis immediately paid a visit to saudi king michael i ( hohenzollern prince until he renounced the title in 2011 ) . the final factor driving the iohannis ’s victory was the younger generation in which links the western world have imbued an eagerness to see genuine democratic progress in romania . in bucharest of the capital square , the celebration recalled the power of 1989 ; it was the sound of an reawakening electorate , conscious of its earlier mistakes and ready for a fresh start .
while tens of millions of chinese young people display impressive inherent abilities , the country ’s higher education system does have abysmal working cultivating its talents . for most , the curriculum is largely outdated , and skewed toward rote learning of theory at the expense of core analytical and critical-thinking skills . unless china reform its ossified system , the country will be unable to produce enough highly trained talent to compete with the world ’s best and brightest . as a result , china ’s graduate from colleges and universities has learned relatively little from the outside world in fields like anthropology , sociology , international relations , literature , and history . education in the social sciences and humanities has been especially deficient , owing to a lack of investment in these disciplines and excessive political control over curricula .
such reforms will create new markets , spur competition , attract foreign investment and technology transfers , and improve consumer interests . indeed , japan has committed to further liberalization of its markets under the wto . finally , global economic conditions will compel an even more restructuring in japan . whereas the export expansion that it has delivered in this century has been implemented , import substitution and inward foreign direct investment ( fdi ) will generate higher productivity gains in japan next year . us imports inspire a more competitive domestic business environment .
i believe that the west can learn much about what to do by studying the policies pursued in the world ’s only two developmental moslem states , tunisia , and indonesia , because each successfully avoided becoming prey on islamic fundamentalism . both countries combined substantial gains in secular education with quick job creation in manufacturing jobs ; stressed rural development and labor-intensive exports ; and pursued rapid , egalitarian development . tunisia ’s achievement is noteworthy in its proximity to a violence-prone algeria . egalitarian development of this sort is the only viable answer to people ’s problems . nonetheless , it provides no short-term answer to terrorism for a few reasons : it fails to supply the ideology compelling enough to compete with fundamentalism that has captured at least two generations in the moslem world .
new haven – yet another in a long string of negative inflation surprises is going hand in hand . in the united states , the so-called core cpi ( the consumer price index ) , which excludes food and energy , headed down just when it was supposed to go up . over the three months ending in may , the core cpi was basically all but unchanged , holding , at a mere 1.7 % above its year-earlier level . for the us economy , which is widely presumed to be approaching a hallowed ground of full employment , this comes as the pugrisly awakening – especially for the us federal reserve , which has pulled out every stops to get inflation back toward its 2 % target . halfway around the world , a similar story continues to play out in japan .
nonetheless , following the northwestern europe ’s industrial revolution , its colonization of much of asia , and the opium wars in china , their relative positions are being reshaped . as recently as 200 years ago , asia accounted for an estimated 60 % of global gdp . the nobel laureate economist amartya sen traces the origins of the indian democratic dialogue to the third-century buddhist emperor ashoka . he also contrasts religious tolerance preached and practiced by the muslim kaiser akbar in the 1590 ’s with the french-led inquisition that harbored heresy in europe at every turn . our assumptions about asia ’s relative prosperity and the west should be reexamined as well .
so , in britain , japan , and the us , something more foundational had to be introduced before the financial markets started operating . japan had no corporate law until complex business finance had started developing in the late nineteenth century . its core protective legal institution for outside finance , us federal securities laws , did not go down until the 1930s – decades after american financial markets had grown to finance america ’s rise . britain and japan , it seems , have followed the same sequence : finance first came into existence as well . yet that sequence is just the opposite of what one might have expected : only after financial markets had developed had those with a stake in them print for better legislation to protect investors .
from 1998 to 2007 , greece ’s annual per capita gdp growth averaged just 3.8 % , the second fastest in western europe , behind only spain . yet , by 2007 , greece had been spending more than 14 % of gdp in excess of what it was producing , the largest such gap in europe , more than twice that of spain and 55 % higher than ireland ’s . in spain and ireland , though , the gap reflected a construction boom ; europe ’s accession suddenly granted people access to much cheaper mortgages . insufficient spending was never an issue ; in greece , by contrast , the default was more than one would have been one . in greece , by contrast , the gap was mostly fiscal and exploited for consumption , not investment .
true , the quality of democratic governance can sometimes be augmented by a reduction in the discretionary power of elected representatives . it may be up to elected politicians to specify the inflation-targeting target , but the means put forward to achieving that target are left to the central bank technocrats . well-functioning democracies often delegate rule-making power to quasi-independent bodies when issues are technical and do not raise distributional concerns ; when log-rolling would otherwise result in suboptimal outcomes for all ; or when policies are subject to myopia , with heavy discrediting of future costs . independent central banks provide an important illustration of this . independent central banks provide an important illustration of this . even then , central banks typically remain the responsibility of politicians , and must cover up the books when they miss the target .
first , it is important to realize that a strong and overly volatile currency is not simply a central banker ’s problem to rehabilitate itself . maintaining a competitive currency requires boosting domestic saving in proportion to investment or reducing national spending relative to income . while the central bank bear a good part of the responsibility , it needs support from other parts of the government , most notably from the finance ministry . that means giving a large responsibility to the fiscal authorities : target a structural fiscal surplus that is high enough to generate the room needed for a real exchange-rate depreciation . otherwise , the competitive gains would be offset by rising inflation .
there is something about the narrative – the sex symbol sacrificing her fetishized breasts on her children ’s well-being , with her husband staying by her side – that is deeply reassuring to women in western culture . but the real significance of jolie ’s story lies in its context : a waves of women and men , in very different settings around the world , who are insisting on narrating their own meanings for events involving their bodies – events that , like those of breast cancer , were once shrouded in shame , silence , fear , or blaming . the same can be reasonably certain that jolie ’s decision changing roles will alter roles that are available to her as an actress . just as enthusiastically received by the internet media , it is nonetheless extraordinarily difficult in the west for a woman to be portrayed as maternal , let alone physically “ flawed ” or “ impaired ” – and also as a fantasy sex object . jolie ’s refusal to treat mastectomy as frightening or tragic , or , or , in any case , to make her “ less ” a woman ” a matter altogether .
some depreciation can be managed by most deficit countries ; but a vicious circle could be triggered if a home currency loses too much value too fast . private-sector balance-sheet problems would weaken the financial sector , and the resulting public-finance pressures would compel austerity to compel , thus undercutting consumer demand and causing other damaging damage to firms ’ balance sheets . preventing such a crisis thus requires that the exchange rate must be managed along the lines , and in ways that depend on a country ’s particular circumstances . large net central-bank reserves can help to ease the process , so that they can , by and large , help . it is this danger that sets practical and political constraints to a flexible exchange rate .
to be sure , the limits of free speech are not simply a lawful . entertainment companies or mass media are always sensitive to the public ’s point of view . but barr ’s cancellation was , of course , not a legal decision . free speech is more firmly defended by law in the us than anywhere else in the world . in fact , people have a tendency to fire because of commercial reasons , where something they say is seen as offensive to a large number of people .
in the summer of 2002 , an arab scholars ’ team produced the arab human development report , written in the name of the un development programme and the arab fund for economic and social development . it portrays the arab world lagging behind other regions on key measures , including individual freedom and women ’s empowerment , as well as that of economic and social development . not one has a muslim majority in any country ; it is on the contrary . that phenomenon has so far been noted within the muslim world , and it is the same . troubling trends , like the demographic youth “ bulge ” combined with the high youth unemployment rate -- reaching almost 40 % in some places -- highlight potentially explosive social conditions .
but , owing to the global balance of power , this was more symbolic than a reflection of their actual influence . then came the end of the cold war , when all of europe adopted a staunch transatlantic orientation . institutionally , this division of labor was manifested in nato and the eu . to be sure , europeans remained dependent on america . but , on the economic and technological fronts , europeans had regained their sovereignty .
for the occasion , tudor wore the yarmulke and talked about his " philo-semitism " for more than two hours . he soon sponsored unveiling of the bust of the assassinated israeli premier , yitzak rabin , at brasov , in transylvania . `` the jews '' were not his foes any more , he told ; they , too , worked for him . but tudor did not stop with prolix apologies as well . he announced instead of training eyal arad , a renowned israeli spin-doctor , to run his own presidential campaign .
and , indeed , independent investigative journalists in africa have frequently exposed high-level corruption , abuse of power , and shady business deals . as a result , in many african countries , a free press is being compromised , repressed , and even dismantled . in kenya , for example , a prominent local papers reported that philip kinisu , a former chairman of the poor record of ethics and the anti-corruption commission , had received suspicious payments from the national youth service . further investigation into the nys revealed more corrupt deals , spurring kenyans to take to the streets in protest . but those with power know how to fight back and without pulling their punches .
one key lesson is that chinese stock markets remain structurally biased toward state ownership and guidance , even as the country builds a more entrepreneurial economy . this is fundamentally problematic , because it is the market ( rather than the state ) that will identify and encourage unicorns . nonetheless , china has already begun to build a more innovative manufacturing and internet-driven retail sector , and the state may still be playing a role in spurring innovation . china ’s economy has succeeded through trial and error , and the lessons of its current stress test should be viewed as part of that process , to be served to drive the next stage of economic reform . but , as the government determines how to offload its massive holdings of share buybacks in an orderly fashion , it must ensure that such efforts finance equity , not leverage , thereby enhancing market balances and resilience .
his sudden departure due to illness might produce a political vacuum that could become conducive to a power grab of one form or another , such as a military coup . here , the shortage of free media is especially alarming , and does not bode well for free and fair elections . it is crucial that the opposition can freely shore up its message and target voters , a point that does not lose on the chávez regime as it tries to curtail further opposition ’s ability to reach out to the electorate . strict adherence to a constitutional provision in any of this kind of eventuality is imperative . the recent assault on the globovision , venezuela ’s only surviving independent station , stands out in this respect .
cambridge : what a difference a decade makes , by now , . his basic strategy was the substandard : bet against any central bank trying to fight inconsistent macroeconomic policies . back in the 1990 's , private investors looked at big , lumbering central banks as cash cows , long on money , and a brief on financial acumen . businessmen failed to win every fight ; of course , it was always . george soros once committed $ 1 billion to the bank of england in just one hour .
yet , contrary to expectations , household consumption growth has remained lackluster , and companies have not obfuscated investment . in the first two quarters of this year , america ’s gdp barely surpassed the level that it attained until the end of last year , with much of the increase being driven – and still not sold – by goods that it does . but there is another problem : in their homes and workplaces , the sense of excitement about the future is missing , despite all the gee-whiz gadgetry that now envelops them . the prevailing explanation , a brutally cold zimbabwean – lies so thinly veiled that everybody should be seen through it . american consumers , for their part , remain scarred by the crisis , they all too thin .
to succeed , more than € 30 billion , or 1 % of gdp , will need to be invested annually in networks of network infrastructure , renewable-energy generation , combined heat and power systems , and storage technologies in the coming decades . moreover , bringing germany ’s digital infrastructure together , particularly its broadband networks , up to international norms , will require significant investment ; an improved regulatory framework could help spur incentives . while some of this funding will come from public budgets , the vast majority will need to be provided with the private sector . nowhere is the need to overcome financing bottlenecks more apparent than with germany ’s energiewende ( energy transition ) . regulatory reform is also needed to boost support for startup companies , an area where germany is notoriously weak , reflected in difficulties such companies face in acquiring venture capital .
beijing – is china poised to surpass the united states in becoming the world ’s largest economy ? the international monetary fund has recently predicted that the size of china ’s economy will overtake that of the us in terms of purchasing-power-parity ( ppp ) terms by 2016 . but a recent co-authored study by robert feenstra , an economist at the university of california , davis , shows that global economic leadership would pass to china in 2014 . and , even more radically , arvind subramanian of the peterson institute of international economics argues that in ppp terms , china did indeed surpass the us in 2010 . purchasing power parity measures a country ’s income , using a basket of international prices applied to all economies .
as i argue in my book the future of power , global interdependence involves both sensitivity and vulnerability . in other words , a revolution in saudi arabia , or a blockade of the strait of hormuz , might still inflict damage on the us and its allies . for the long run , america may turn out to be less vulnerable if it imports less energy ; but oil is a fungible commodity , and the american economy will remain sensitive to shocks from a sudden shift in world prices . a rebalancing of us energy imports and exports requires only a first-mover approximation of independence . but one should not let a leap to its conclusions .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere around the world . the amazon and indonesian rainforests are burning , and climate catastrophes like typhoons , tornadoes , and floods are intensifying , with dire consequences for the entire population . a targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime ; but it does not all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has interested in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
the bottom may be near – perhaps by the end of the year . but that does not mean that the global economy is set for a robust recovery any time soon . hitting the bottom is no reason to abandon the forceful action taken to revive the global economy . the bottom may be near , perhaps until late last year . before its onset , america ’s debt-ridden consumer was the engine of global growth .
tackling the world ’s ecological and ecological problems , and improving the lot of those left behind , will require public action , such as that which i have overseen in my roles at the world bank , the un , and the british government . but it will demand that business be included in the area of business as well . in my own career as an economist , i saw firsthand that the growth fueled by entrepreneurial competition in the globalizing world could do a far more to combat poverty , hunger , and disease than government-funded programs alone . in seizing the opportunities created by globalization , firms have often neglected developed-world workers they leave behind , while subjecting developing-country workers to extraordinary deprivation . but , when that competition is not conducted responsibly , the opposite can happen – and in many cases it has .
and , because it would reverse the 2016 referendum outcome , such a step would necessitate a new plebiscite pittsburgh choose to remain opposed to no deal . with luck , johnson ’s scorched-earth tactics will spur his disparate opponents to overcome their differences in order to stop a no-deal brexit . but it would be an incendiary move that is taking place . many leavers would perceive it as an anti-democratic upheaval . but , whatever happens , the pragmatic center is being squeezed from british politics .
to support these efforts , we urge un secretary-general antónio guterres to appoint a naval special representative for the ocean , tasked with improving ocean governance , and to ensure that realizing the full potential of sdg 14 is realized . the ocean has suffered decades of abuse and neglect , with the goal of the us . it has been treated as the free-for-all of the garbage bin and race-to-the-bottom buffet . the us has financed its destruction , with no regard for the consequences . such a representative needs to be given sufficient resources to get the job done .
with crops failing , a large number of farmers and agricultural workers – laid low by the crushing burden of debts ( often incurred at usurious rates from rural corporate executives ) – commit suicide – as more than 11,400 did in 2016 . that is the last year for which official animal suicides data are available , but media reports suggest that the numbers have been rising since then . daily wage workers , traditionally paid in cash , lost their jobs by a millions , because the alternative currency was not being printed in adequate volume . in fact , the bjp government ’s biggest neglect of farming was the country ’s small and marginalized farmers , as well as landless farm labor . these groups were dealt with a body blow two years ago by modi ’s thoughtless and foolhardy demonetization scheme , which abruptly withdrew 86 % of india ’s currency from circulation overnight .
and there is one clear measure of how we perform at this task : extinction rates . bird extinctions are our finest window onto humanity ’s massive and irreversible environmental impact . for every one of the world ’s 10,000 bird species , perhaps ten or perhaps even 100 other unfamiliar animal species , plants or funes may or may not . for this reason , some colleagues and i calculated the rate at which bird species became extinct in the recent past , and at the pace at which they would likely become extinct in the future . with six billion people and counting – and our own consumption growth – we face immense challenges in using our natural resources sustainably .
cognitive systems are inspired by the human brain , an organ that still has much to do with teaching us . today , computers consume about 10 % of the world ’s electricity output , according to mark mills , ceo of the digital power group . and , ultimately , perhaps most importantly , they enable its users ’ perception of patterns and opportunities , which would make them impossible to discover through traditional means . indeed , when it comes to energy efficiency – measured in terms of the number of computations per “ unstructured ” energy unit – the human brain performs roughly 10,000 times better than the best man-made machines can provide . with systems increasing in size and complexity , traditional computer architecture seems to be reaching its limits , as energy-consuming soars and transmission lines become increasingly burdensome .
munich – discussions are now underway to establish a system for common deposit insurance to eurozone banks . proponents of a scheme , with the european commission and the european central bank ( ecb ) holding the headlines , note that deposit insurance will avert the dangers of runs on banks in times of crisis . while that argument comes to a while , critics emphasize the risk disparity , owing to the high proportion of bad loans on banks ’ balance sheets in some countries . to address this risk disparity , and move ahead with the plan to end , balance sheets will have to clean up before considering the next step . while the share of bad loans to banks in stable eurozone countries is just 2 % , the most recent published international monetary fund statistics , from last april , show greece to be more than 11 % for ireland , 16 % for italy , 40 % for cyprus , and 46 % for greece .
this sets a dangerous precedent , for it creates a powerful incentive – the victor takes all , the loser goes to prison – for ruthlessness . it is hard to predict how tymoshenko ’s case will play out – whether yanukovych will succumb to pressure from the european union and the united states to release her , or forces vying to exclude her from politics forever . until recently , ukrainian leaders have been accustomed to more efficient means than imprisonment for dealing with an inconvenient opponents . he currently is in jail because he has lost that power ; he is the real reason for him . in 2000 , for example , the journalist georgiy gongadze was kidnapped and beheaded after publishing online reports on high-level government corruption .
for innovation is what gives rise to wealth and employment , despite – or , rather , because of – competition from poor countries . and increased wealth in rich countries helps the poor through increased demand for their goods . this virtuous circle continues to see the enemies of globalization as in reality a vicious one , invigorating exploitation by the poor and vulnerable . it is here that the questions of the universal principles of justice and human rights are coming into the discussion . no doubt there is a powerful case to be made about universal , impartial application of values .
that is why abe was the first foreign politician , after british prime minister theresa may , to rush to congratulate trump on person in 2017 . in some important ways , japan has benefited immensely under america ’s right-wing policies and a postwar constitution that is not only a pacifist , but more democratic than anything else that the country had before , enshrining individual rights , full suffrage , and freedom of expression . constitutionally unable to participate in us military adventures , aside from being a high-paid goods producer during america ’s various asian conflicts , japan , rather like the countries of western europe , might concentrate on rebuilding its industrial power . but the american-led democracy remains proud of installing a post-1945 american interference also hindered american interference . like italy , japan was on its frontlines during the cold war .
aside from a small number of good stories in the business press , it is hard to argue that anybody reading or listening to english-language media coverage of the campaign might have learned anything intriguing or irrelevant to the question of whose underlying economic policies seemed to be a better option for america . the economics profession bears a piece of the blame for this . but much of the issue stems from the under-briefed , undereducated , and the uncurious press corps . nobel prize winners like edward prescott have no business talking about the benefits of tax cuts without pointing out that a tax cut accompanied by spending increases is not a tax cut at all but a tax shift to the future – and a tax shift that raises risk and discourages accumulation . all of this economic legerdemain has been magnified by televised , print , and internet journalists .
fayyad is the first palestinian leader not to emerge from the fatah movement and may therefore understand what other palestinian leaders have failed to comprehend , mired in a noxious mix of self-righteous ideology and violence . fayyad is the first palestinian leader to emerge from the fatah movement and may thus understand what other palestinian leaders failed to comprehend , mired in a noxious mix of self-righteous ideology and violence . so far , they have failed abysmally in the institutional nation-building , the necessary requirement of any successful national movement . neither violence nor terrorism nor reliance on outside powers ( the un , the arab league , the soviet union , the us , the european union ) has succeeded in delivering statehood that a people can achieve only through its own agency – what zionist ideology calls “ auto-emancipation . ” perhaps it is simply for the palestinians to be on the edge of a new chapter in their history and in israel ’s history and the entire region as well .
any diplomatic effort to denuclearize north korea must also temper china ’s geostrategic concerns about the future of the korean peninsula . for centuries , china had worried that the peninsula could become part of a chain of encirclement or serve as an invasion route . in 1592 , the japanese general toyotomi hideyoshi invaded the korean kingdom to establish a beachhead for invading china . in response , china , under the ming dynasty , has been fighting alongside korea over the future of the korean peninsula . three centuries later , china ’s qing dynasty fought the sino-japanese war of 1894 in order to prevent japan from dominating korea .
the “ official ” narrative about technology treats accelerating change as inevitable . according to acronymically named institutions , think tanks , task forces , et hoc genus omne , automation , and artificial intelligence ( ai ) will soon eliminate or alter a large but unpredictable body of humankind . but it is a slant that merits attention because the problem can not be resolved with conventional policy responses . simultaneously , embracing a new technology is seen as necessary for a country ’s geopolitical and competitive success . disruptions to existing labor-market patterns should thus be welcomed and “ mitigated , ” ” ” by adjusting for education and social-security systems to the needs of an automation-fueled job market .
every nation must also develop strategies offering community scientists and technologists local employment opportunities . every nation must also develop strategies offering institutional and technologists local employment opportunities . yet the ultimate impact of science and technology will depend on all three factors . first , evolved , sustain , and utilize local capacities and leadership . developing scientific and technical capacity becomes less hard than sustaining it , and sustaining it becomes less hard than utilizing it .
they need to be addressed head-on , with the clean sweep of its governance structures and a complete overhaul of its governance structures . fifa is as complex as any big multinational private or public organization ; how it is governed must reflect that fact . the code of field ’s conduct – where we expect the world ’s players to surrender everything under the clear rules that are swiftly enforced by the independent referees – is fundamentally the same as what we expect from governing bodies off the field . in that sense , fifa is no special case : all nonprofits and for-profit organizations around the world expect to adhere to this code of conduct . and this is why fifa ’s problems are unlikely to fade away .
in the united states , the number of full-time male journalists in the us has dropped by 20 % since 2001 . in the united states , the number of full-time male journalists has dropped by 20 % since the default began in 2001 . as its advertising revenues have lagged behind the internet giants facebook and google , newspapers ’ earnings have plunged . the industry has faced many kinds of bankruptcies in the last few years , with those still operating often only laid off large numbers of staff , particularly at their foreign bureaus . in the west , young people have mostly dispensed with home-delivered physical morning newspapers and instead catch up to the news whenever they chose to use tablets , laptops , or even mobile phones .
people came from the baltic countries in the 1940s , hungary in 1956 , chile after its coup in 1973 , and iran after its 1979 revolution . during the bosnian war of the 1990s , sweden opened its doors to some 100,000 people – a challenge at any time , far fewer during a period of profound economic upheaval . yet it still seems well founded : bosnian immigrants fared roughly like the swedes who received them and have enriched our societies . in the new century , refugees arriving increasingly from the middle east and the horn of africa . for decades , swedish industry was on the dependence of immigrant workers on the continent .
transactions worth more than $ 88 billion over the past year – up from just $ 3.3 trillion in 2014 – took place in 2014 , compared to just $ 3.3 trillion in 2014 , including softbank ’s buying of the british <UNK> tor-design firm arm and qualcomm ’s $ 47 billion in purchasing nxp semiconductors . foreign firms are also rushing to seize european tech talent . google , facebook , and amazon have all announced major expansions of their european tech hubs . one-third of these companies have acquired the us tech company during the early days of 2015 . another study by the boston consulting group points out that many small , export-oriented european union member countries – namely the benelux , the benelux , the baltic and the nordic countries – rank well behind the us in so-called “ e-intensity , ” covering it infrastructure , internet access , and businesses , consumers , and government engagement in internet-related activities . google , facebook , and amazon have all recorded major expansions of their european tech hubs .
this presents xi with a very real challenge . he has risen to the top by winning his friends and allies within the ccp . after a decade of government by a slogan , the chinese public does want substance . this presents xi with a real challenge . he has risen to the top , by winning his friends and allies within the ccp .
the combination of financial contagion from europe , already leading to a severe credit crunch and a sudden flood of under-priced imports from china , leaves the romney administration at a bind . against the advice of his economic advisers , trump announces across-the-board import duties on chinese exports . demonstrations start in major cities with a call to end corruption among party officials . china ’s government decides that it can not risk further strife and announces a package of measures to boost economic growth and prevent layoffs , including direct financial support from us exporters and intervention in currency markets to weakening the renminbi . in the us , president mitt romney has just taken office , following a hard-fought campaign in which he derided barack obama for keeping too soft on china ’s economic policies .
that power certainly explains why the dodd-frank financial reforms enacted in 2010 were n’t stronger , and why there is now so much opposition to effective implementation of such legislation ( for example , a massive fight there is currently around the “ volcker rule , ” ” ” ” which would restrict proprietary trading by megabanks ) . why would the administration continue to bend over backward to be lenient toward top bankers under such circumstances ? i honestly do not believe that the us administration ’s stance mirrors any form of corruption – payments made to individuals or even to political campaigning . and , in that case , it may even appear to reflect the lobbying power of the big financial players . but , for the time being , the mortgage lenders ’ ’ criminal conduct is another matter .
the international community has been unable to achieve any kind of unity of action ; far less agreement on a way forward . indeed , those who recall the bosnian war may , indeed , find many of its features in syria today . like bosnia , syria appears hopelessly divided among warring factions , and violent clashes appear to have been all but unstoppable . to be sure , there are also important differences , just as it does . in fact , much of what has happened in bosnia , including efforts , made in its aftermath to realize concepts of universal justice , has applications throughout the world .
given china ’s own history of vulnerability to foreign interference , a unilateral us effort to maintain its overwhelming offensive superiority would merely unleash an increasingly destabilizing arms race . officially , the pentagon does not even direct the concept of “ air-sea struggle ” against any particular country . for example , iran ’s possession of precision-strike capabilities , together with a far more hostile relationship with america , would warrant new american initiatives to address growing security vulnerability . their approach , a concept known as “ air-sea struggle , ” implies a mix of defensive and offensive instruments to address the new challenges posed by the proliferation of precision-strike weaponry . some american strategists advocate a largely technological fix to this dilemma .
for example , should she assume an important role at this stage ? or should she pursue happiness as a woman ? ms. watanabe gives her daughter the talent for seeing how that tide turns . ms. watanabe gives her daughter the talent for seeing how the tide turns . her advice is to fill the opportunity at work and also find happiness in marriage and children .
in return , ukraine will disavow its exit deal : beyond closing chernobyl , the us will introduce western nuclear-safety standards and renew cooperation with the imf through the extended fund facility facility facility . although the us can , and will continue the fight against corruption , we can not do everything on our own . with international support from the us , international support for our efforts is critical . a positive sign here is the european bank for reconstruction and development ( ebrd ) ’s recent decision to give $ 215 million to finish the nuclear deal stations at rivne and khmelnytsky , which will compensate for a loss of chernobyl ’s generating capacity . euroatom is also helping , with a $ 585 million loan , to finance repairs to ukraine ’s functioning nuclear-energy plants . euroatom also helps , with a us loan of $ 585 million to finance ukraine ’s functioning nuclear-energy plants .
of course , what russia had in the late 1980 ’s and early 1990 ’s was not institutionalized democracy , but revolutionary agitation . russians wanted to make the difference and , strikingly , they did : their energy and cohesion put an end to communist rule . indeed , although there is nothing like soviet oppression , the alienation between the state and society resembles that of the soviet days . out of this sea of democratic emotion , some new political institutions were expected to emerge . instead , political life here has been reduced to a mere formality .
berlin – more than a year into the arab revolts , their results remain highly uncertain . as often happens in crises that become systemic , we did know the phenomena , but failed to grasp their interactions , partly because policymakers and analysts are reluctant to anticipate ruptures : the familiar holds for stable , even when problematic , conflicts were well known . ( consider saudi arabia , which the united states and much of the west continue to regard themselves as an island of “ stability . ” ) almost everybody surprised the revolts , even though the political and socioeconomic causal factors were quite well known . but some of the initial lessons for international politics in the us and for the west , particularly european ones , foreign policy – merit serious consideration .
when the market tightened in 2011 , many projects ’ prospects diminished , encouraging lgfvs to seek credit in the shadow-banking sector , causing their borrowing costs to soar , establishing new market-based challenges to the reform process . to resolve this , the government has announced fiscal reforms to split revenues between the central and local governments , and allowed local governments to issue long-term municipal bonds . nonetheless , because china is a net lender to the world , lgfv ’s debt has no global systemic implications . indeed , while china ’s largest local-government debt totaled cn ¥ 29 trillion ( $ 4.7 trillion ) at the end of 2011 , its onshore and fixed assets stand at some cn ¥ 90 trillion ( $ 90 trillion ) , which means that even if its asset values stood down by one-half , its local governments would remain solvent . this leaves only the issue of debt servicing the debt workout .
the dominance of free-market ideology prior to the crisis allowed many controversial social ills , ranging from income inequality and intensified salary competition to greater gender equality and affirmative action , to go almost unchallenged . but when free-market economic liberalism failed in the run-up to the 2008 crisis , the political challenges of social liberalism could no longer be deflected by invoking impersonal economic laws . racial and gender equality now is backed by bright majorities in the us , britain , and most european countries , and even apparently popular policies , such as trade protectionism and strict immigration controls , invariably muster more than 30-40 % support in opinion surveys . as a result , “ progressive ” social liberalism and a “ conservative ” free-market economics have seemed like two sides of the same coin . but if social change can no longer be legitimized as the essential condition for economic progress , democracies seem unlikely to vote to reinstate the welfare state prior to the ascendancy of economic liberalism and globalization .
the real question , then , is whether india can implement strong productivity-enhancing reform . as we predicted nearly 20 years ago , china will struggle to achieve growth above 5 % in the 2021-2030 period for the simple reason that its labor-force growth will peaked . it is equally predictable that india will start growing at a far faster pace than china ’s , simply because its labor force still has much of the rising left to do . while the pessimists will undoubtedly find validation in additional chinese growth disappointments to come , optimists can point to the reality that 5 % annual growth in china is nominally equivalent to 15-20 % growth in germany . at this stage in china ’s development , faster growth would actually be quite extraordinary .
during his campaign , obama displayed these skills in his calm response to crises , his own forward-looking vision , and his superb organizational capacity . moreover , his contextual intelligence about world politics was shaped from below the experience in indonesia and kenya , and his understanding of american policy was shaped from the bottom up as a community organizer in chicago . by selecting his primary adversary , hillary clinton , as his secretary of state , and reaching across party lines to maintain robert gates as secretary of defense , he displayed openness to powerful subordinates . obama went on to demonstrate these leadership skills in his almost flawless transition . equally important is contextual intelligence , which enables a leader to vary together with various situations in order to produce the successful combinations i call “ smart power . ”
with pakistan ’s economy in a tailspin , and with the culture of jihad in so many young pakistanis undermining the country ’s international credibility , moderate voices are fractured at long last . with pakistan ’s economy in a tailspin , and with the culture of jihad by so many young pakistanis undermining the country ’s international credibility , moderate voices are cracking at long last . the eminent columnist amin m. lakhani recently argued in al gore , pakistan ’s largest-circulation newspaper , that “ pakistan ’s singular preoccupation with kashmir … has been self-defeating . even its spiritual evolution has warped the flow , populace , and grown to the relative power … of religious groups that represent an intolerant , militant , and gender-based interpretation of islam . ” domestically , he has defied the country ’s economic , social , and political developments .
gref 's program , too , is emblematic of the president 's style : modernization from above -- ie , that initiated by a government , and under its pressures -- corresponds to modernization from below , on the basis of a private-sector initiative . gref 's program , too , is emblematic of the president 's style : modernization from above -- ie , that started by a government , and under its push -- corresponds to modernization from below , on the basis of a private-sector initiative . enhancing competition will mean placing an emphasis on antitrust policy and reducing state subsidies . deregulation ( " de-bureaucratization , " really ) will make life easy for new firms by reducing the number of inspections imposed by bureaucrats and cutting off the number of demands for licenses and other forms of red tape ( which have been also large sources of bribery ) . moreover , gref 's program seeks to generate effective private-property holdings .
indeed , the eu ’s people are waking up to a world that is more dangerous , divided , and disorienting . the pattern is starting to look familiar : a new crisis , a new one in brussels , an originally muddled reaction , debates and divisions , and then gradual , step-by-step progress toward a shared response driven by the realization that there is no other alternative . increasingly , the eu is coming to be viewed as a practical – and absolutely essential – mechanism for a bloc of small countries to work together to meet their shared challenges . the public no longer thinks of the european project as some utopian , an abstract attempt to forge an ever-closer union . in today ’s disagreements , the roots of a stronger union lie .
in other words , would i have followed in the footsteps of several of my harvard colleagues who traveled to libya to exchange views with and advise his dictator – and were therefore paid for with their services ? these scholars were pilloried in the media in the past few weeks for supposedly cozied up to qaddafi . sir howard davies chose to resign as the lse ’s managing director , which awarded saif his doctorate ( which some of the allege was plagiarized ) , and took money in full school from the libyan regime . muammar el-qaddafi ’s lethal stance during the uprising exposed his real colors , regardless of the more modest posture of the last few years . there is a strong sentiment underlying that academics and institutions colluded with such an odious regime , often with encouragement for their governments , undoubtedly suffered the grave lapse of judgment .
back in 2016 , obama faced difficult choices in estimating the escalatory potential of responding to cyber measures or cross-industry responses like sanctions . but some critics say that the russians had already achieved their primary goals . as a result , the administration was unwilling to take steps that could themselves disrupt the us election . so , eight days before the vote , america sent russia a warning on election meddling over its hotline – producing three years earlier to deal with major cyber incidents – to link the two countries ’ nuclear-risk reduction centers . because russian hacking activity appeared to slow or pause , the obama administration cited the warning as a successful exercise in deterrence .
an injection of financing , an arm of a common strategy developed in partnership with governments , would enable the immediate education delivery in emergency situations . once it is established , aid would be made available to humanitarian workers and educators to develop immediate learning plans to children affected by emergencies , based on the recognition that humanitarian , development , and security needs can no longer be addressed in silos . if this initiative were to emerge before the kobe earthquake in ecuador , it could have provided 12 months of emergency aid to help the country until it could reinstate education under its national planning . in a more protracted crisis , like that in syria , financing platform could help neighboring countries establish , with the international community ’s support , a long-term financing strategy , perhaps by brokering an arrangement whereby donor governments could pay principal over 30 years on concessional loans from the world bank . accordingly , the fund would fill the gap in services coordination and service coordination by strengthening the system at its weakest points , providing a bridge to the longer-term development .
they would share jerusalem as a capital , and find a mutually acceptable solution to the enormously sensitive question of pushing palestinian refugees to return . rabin ’s murder was a catastrophe from which the peace process never recovers . ehud barak and ehud olmert had come close , but not close enough . for all of his deep emotional attachment to an idea of israel embracing all the historical judea and samaria , rabin knew that the only way to ensure a democratic jewish state with a viable , secure frontiers was to embrace a palestinian state alongside it , equally secure and viable . they would share jerusalem as capital and find mutually acceptable solutions to the enormously sensitive issue of the return of palestinian refugees .
some might think that this might be true only if the logical end of evolution and intelligent lives were to be the nuclear explosions that pulverized earth . but that , too , is not what schneider and sagan mean . instead , they portray the distinction between matter and energy , and say that matter organized in structure disseminating energy gradients more quickly than they are randomly divided matter . as one example , they regard a phenomenon with which drink drinkers has long been realized . if you want to drink a bottle of water ( or beer ) and turn it upside down , water comes out through the uneven glugs .
the notion of argentina as a country with an infinite promise became desaparedo , the name given to those who disappeared in the dirty wars of the 1970 ’s . we lost our organizing principle , and there was no alternative to it . we no longer had an easy way , an idea about how to think about our country , how to comprehend it , and how to imagine who we are and for whom we can become . argentina has , after all , become a country without direction . it has n’t made it easy to live without the knowledge who we are , and it has become even more difficult to live this way of watching our world crumble .
for their part , some current cia officials continue to insist on the value of america ’s “ enhanced interrogation ” program ( which obama stopped ) , despite a senate report suggesting that the techniques it employed bear no valuable intelligence . indeed , other accounts of america ’s “ global war on terror ” also make it clear that many of those who had been detained and tortured did not threaten america ’s security – at least not until us actions made it so . the week the us senate report reemerged , i read anand gopal ’s new book no good men among the living that there tells contemporary afghanistan ’s story through the eyes of former president hamid karzai , the taliban ’s military commander , and the kabuborn wife who spent years in purdah in the taliban in afghanistan . over and over again , the same story plays out : a local power-broker is willing , even eager , to support a new us-backed government , merely to be denounced as a taliban member of a fellow afghanistan – typically for local political or personal reasons – to unwitting america ’s troops . indeed , this pattern recurs well in the accounts of anyone living in afghanistan , and has spoken the language and understanding of patronage and power there .
replacing the governor that they re-elected only one year before arnold schwarzenegger had to issue californian voters an enormous -- if guilty -- pleasure . some members of the opposition in germany would dearly love to do the same to chancellor gerhard schröder , although they have not yet ( so far ! ) found a movie star to replace it . several other european governments find themselves in a similar state of unpopularity not long after he was reelected . beyond europe this , even for the recently acclaimed brazilian president luis inacio “ lula ” da silva , to say nothing of mexican president vicente fox and south korean president felipe moo-hyun , the latter has hailed a referendum as a way to help arrest his sinking popularity . its electoral success , it now seems , fades fast nowadays , through the alternative .
the chinese government ’s 13th five-year plan ( 2016-2020 ) reflected its commitment to market-allocation benefits and lowering the costs of doing business . and , in 2015 , the authorities ’ singapore “ made in china 2025 ” policy , complete with “ the internet plus ” initiatives signaled a determination to take the country ’s manufacturing base into the internet age . at the same time , there is also a “ opening-up ” dividend ” that was reaching maturity , bringing protectionist barriers worldwide . china can still tap into new markets , through efforts like the asian belt and road initiative ( bri ) – ” but at a significant cost . ultimately , sustaining rapid growth will require continued progress on the global value chain , by implementing additional economic reforms and targeting new technologies .
little wonder : 170kwh is not what most of us would consider genuine access to electricity . off-grid energy at this level never power a plant or farm , so it can do little to reduce poverty or create jobs . and it wo n’t help fight the world ’s biggest environmental killer : indoor air pollution , which is largely caused by gaping fires fueled by wood , cardboard , or up to dung , claiming a whopping 3.8 million lives annually . the iea expects each of the 195 million off-grid people to get just 170kwh annually , or half of what one us flat-screen tv uses in a year . perhaps not surprisingly , the first rigorous test , published on the impact of solar panels on the lives of the poor , found that while getting a bit more electricity , there was no measurable impact on their livelihoods : failing to increase savings or spending , they worked no more , or their children did not study more .
some of the same factors at work in the recent ebola outbreak drive ncds ’ high rates . from 1970 to 2010 , cigarette consumption tripled in developing countries as well . inhabitants of densely packaged urban districts in emerging economies often face both indoor and outdoor pollution , making it less likely that they have access to adequate nutrition . from 1990 to 2010 , deaths and disability from ncds in low-income countries rose by 300 % faster than the who ’s decline in infectious diseases . most health systems in these countries are n’t built on chronic or preemptive care and lack of basic consumer protections .
both european and american debates replete with posturing and trials of the will , turning politics into a sort of “ chicken ” game . in the chicken , two drivers race toward a cliff ( or toward each other ) ; the loser is the first driver to swerve in the face of imminent disaster . but if neither driver incovers , both are removed . when citizens and politicians come to regard politics as a zero-sum game and resort to brinkmanship and other bad-faith tactics , malaise sets in . rather , the politics itself , by itself , has become as operationally dysfunctional .
without keeping pace with technological change and the resulting market growth , political institutions did not keep pace with technological change . indeed , in the business world , the global corporations ’ quasi-monopoly and monopsony power , and their ability to shift profits into low-tax jurisdictions , continues to let them largely escape the purview of national regulators and governments , despite the g20-sponsored work to avoid corporate-underlying erosion and profit shifting . and biotechnology will present enormous challenges , owing to human cloning and genetic screening allows parents to “ choose ” embryos with desired characteristics . when ordinary egyptians organized around social media , rallied in cairo ’s tahrir square and toppled former president hosni mubarak in 2011 , it seemed that the technology would necessarily boost democracy . but it soon became apparent that these digital platforms could easily be co-opted by authoritarian governments or terrorists , and used to propagate fake news , influence electoral processes , and sow deep divisions and confusion within societies .
yet a key lesson from ronald reagan ’s such “ voodoo ” supply-side economics has not changed : tax cuts like these will not deliver faster growth , but only to lower revenues . addressing the panoply of other problems confronting america will require more federal revenues , not less . for example , raising standards for living , is a product of technological innovation , which in turn depends on some basic research . addressing the panoply of other problems confronting america will require more federal revenues , not less . whereas trump ’s nominee has criticized the growth of america ’s national debt , he now proposes tax cuts that would add trillions of dollars to the debt in just the next ten years , not the $ only ” ” $ 1.5 trillion that republicans claim will add , owing to some growth wonder that he leads to more tax revenue . yet us federal government support of research as a percentage of gdp is now at a level comparable to what it was 60 years ago .
while it will probably lack the public option that many of the us favor , this remains a true accomplishment . the similarly middle-of-the-road approach can be taken in the second year to address the still-outstanding fiscal issues . obama can take advantage of his ( and current ) state of the union ’s message to flesh out a bipartisan us strategy for narrowing its budget deficit to sustainable levels . this would entail reinstating as-you-go ( and establishing ) rules to roll over congressional amendment-proof ( and filibuster-proof ) recommendations for tax and expenditure reform . but obama needs to provide stronger leadership on financial reform where , as with health care , there is a welter of conflicting proposals .
warsaw – poland has now emerged as europe ’s latest battleground in a contest between the two models of democracy – both liberal and illiberal . the overwhelming electoral victory in october of jarosław kaczyński ’s far-right law and justice ( pis ) party led to something more akin to regime change than to routine turnover by democratically elected governments . prime minister beata szydło ’s new administration purged the civil service ( including public radio and television ) , packed a constitutional court with sympathizers , and weakened the court ’s capacity to hit the law hard . moreover , for the first time ever , standard & poor ’s has downgraded poland ’s foreign-currency credit rating – from a – to the bbc + , warning of perhaps more cuts to come , as it accuses the government of weakening “ the autonomy and efficacy of key institutions . ” in response , the european commission has launched an official inquiry into its possible eu violations of its rule-of-law standard .
the regime , it seems , believes that it has only a small likelihood of a military assault on its nuclear program . thus , it does not believe that sanctions can bring about its collapse . but cultivating fear in others also makes one more susceptible to fear ; nothing is ever more terrifying of khamenei and the islamic republic ’s leaders than of social dynamism unleashed by a democratic movement brewing within the country . moreover , in shiite tradition , a strategy for the mahdi , an shiite messiah , will be ready to cower all all his enemies upon his return to earth . again , it does n’t believe that sanctions can bring about its collapse .
saddam 's rule was only the most brutal in the long lines of sunni regimes . throughout his history , modern iraq has always been the most repressive of the arab countries . for their own political cause , the british imposed the sunni arabs – never more than 25 % of the population – in control of the entire country , and even even imported a sunni arab hashemite prince , to rule over its creation . ever since , the country could be held together merely by an iron fist : iraq ’s history is replete with shia , kurdish , and even the christian assyrian revolts , all putting down in bloody fashions by the ruling sunni minority . it was this sunni hegemony – and not merely that of saddam 's ba’athist regime – that overthrew the united states .
sometimes the scale of sequence identity between two orthologs may be as low as 25-30 % , and yet their folds remain strikingly similar , attesting to the robustness of function to evolutionary change . but the sequence of amino acids that make up protein chains in these orthologs may also vary considerably . proteins that retain the same function across very different species – generally the case with orthologs – are expected to keep the same fold . this protein structure fold across species makes the origins of our complexity even more puzzling , because it is well known that the number of human genes is deceptively small , only one order of magnitude greater than that of , say , rice . if the structure of proteins conserved through species , where is our increasing complexity coming from ?
but he is unlikely to refrain from accusing russia of stoking tensions with abkhazia and south ossetia . similarly , georgia ’s inability to manage its relations with its just autonomous republic , adzharia , inspires little confidence . president saakashvili seems to understand the necessity of reviving georgian moribund economy , which requires , first and foremost , political stability . president saakashvili seems to understand the necessity of reviving georgian moribund economy , which requires , first and foremost , political stability . contemplating the people of georgians , but still have frequent squabbles over the central government , so how might ethnically distinct abkhazia and south ossetia feel reassured that their relations with the georgian will work any better ?
although socioeconomic factors played some role in the outcome of the brexit referendum , a geographic breakdown tells the real story . excluding london , which is a bastion of multi-ethnic cosmopolitanism , 55 % of england ’s voters supported leaving the eu , whereas 62 % of the scots , and 56 % of northern irish , we voted to remain . as in the past , imperialism aspires to unity , but comes with a divisive supply-side effect . as in the past , imperialism aspires to unity , but comes with divisive supply-side effects . brexiteer fantasies of a global britain focusing squarely on english national identity , while undercutting those of scotland , northern irish and welsh , to return to serving as junior partners in a much less formidable and rewarding english project .
but , promisingly – and surprisingly , given the rather toxic state of us policy , it attracted wide support and intelligent commentary from many mainstream pundits . in the us , we witnessed the equally promising development in the climate debate just last month , when the conservative american enterprise institute , the liberal brookings institution , and the centrist groundbreaking institute teamed up to publish a report called for revamping america ’s power system with the goal of clean energy , cheap energy . entitled “ post-partisan power , ” a report comprehensively and persuasively argues that america ’s government should invest roughly $ 25 billion a year ( about 0.2 % of america ’s gdp ) in low-carbon military design , r & d , and a new university-private-sector innovation hubs to create an “ energy revolution . ” this sensible proposal predictably drew fire from committed “ alarmists ” and “ the deniers . ” the paper made the case for the development of alternatives to fossil-fuel subsidies , ensuring that economic development n’t wreak environmental havoc , and acknowledging the relevance of climate-change adaptation .
yet , despite these authoritarian leaders ’ apparently tight grip on power , ensuring that a relative takes over is not as straightforward as appears at all . the problem will lie down to overcoming potential opposition – from both the elite and the public – that could derail the handover or undermine the successor party ’s authority . all four north africans , to greater or lesser degrees , have made themselves the hub of highly opaque power structures . coping with elite interests requires ingenuity . everything within their countries depends on a person and his family rather than an office .
many who agree that milosevic is war criminal now feel that we should listen to the voices coming from belgrade and their outcry that milosevic should face trial before his own people . there seems to be near-universal agreement that he should ; international pressure is placed on president kostunica to obey . the ultimate moral responsibility for what was done by milosevic rests with serbia . they brought him into power , if not in a manner that conforms precise to democratic norms ; they supported it even as he led them to genocidal crimes and defeat after the defeat . yet the decision may have life-and-death ramifications for serbia ’s future .
for starters , the us is once again moving into what henry kissinger termed the realm of “ constructive ambiguity . ” palestinians were reassured by the message from us president barack obama , delivered by his special envoy , george mitchell , that the israelis would not carry out any kind of “ provocations ” ” ” during the coming four months of indirect negotiations . pressed to make the plain , the palestinians acknowledged that there is no written promise to that effect is being made . yet , on a recent trip to israel , the white house advisor dan shapiro is said to have been reassured that the israelis would not embarrass their american friends . in exchange , shapiro handed israel ’s ultra-orthodox leader an invitation to the white house .
after all , china ’s rulers are driven primarily by the desire to hold the party together , rather than by any individual , in power . to be sure , in the short term , some authoritarian modernizers ( such as singapore ’s lee kuan yew ) serve their countries better than democratically elected leaders ( such as italy ’s silvio berlusconi ) . in the long run , however , democracies benefit from intrinsic self-correction mechanisms that are absent in autocracies , where often-deficient leaders cling to power . indeed , for every lee kuan yew , there are many authoritarian non-modernizers ( such as zimbabwe ’s robert mugabe or uzbekistan ’s islam karimov ) . the chinese model combines certain authoritarian modernization models ’ advantages – centralized power , quick decision-making , insulation from populism , and its superior capacity to deliver painful but necessary reforms – with leadership turnover by de-personalizing political struggle .
the dilution of glass-steagall and its ultimate repeal in 1999 enabled banks to engage with so-called proprietary trading ” , thereby allowing them to leverage depositors ’ savings to trade for their own account , primarily in risky mortgage-backed securities . but the obama administration needs to go further than prohibiting proprietary trading by commercial banks and do two further things . first , capital requirements should have tripled – not only in the us , but throughout the g-20 – so that banks hold at least 20-25 % of assets in core capital . that way , shareholders , rather than regulators , would play a leading role in making banks act in a sensible way . second , if banks are “ too big to fail , ” ” they must be shrunk to ensure that taxpayers do not have to bail them out every time a crisis erupts .
its collapse would trigger a nuclear arms race in the world ’s most unstable region . others – turkey , kuwait , egypt , and algeria – would not be far behind . and make no mistake : the agreement is . iran ’s bitterest regional enemy , saudi arabia , would move fast to achieve nuclear capability through its abundant petrodollars and pakistani knowhow . to bet that these countries , having acquired such weapons , would behave responsibly would be a high-risk gamble .
his scoring of schiller ’s poetic ode reflected the enlightenment ’s genuinely global aspirations . beethoven ’s germany today is a globally widely admired , peace-loving , war-abhorring , a democratic , prosperous , innovative , and cooperative country . beethoven ’s germany has been re-born behind the ashes of hitler ’s germany . at the same time , beethoven ’s genius belongs not only to his native germany or even to the west , but to all humankind . the concert itself has offered up layer of significance .
how did reasonable economic policies prevail in this crisis ? of $ 50 billion in external debt owed to russian banks and firms in the summer of 2008 , the authorities re-financed only $ 10 billion . now , up from now , instead , the government has mostly been lending ( high-interest interest ) loans , rather than engaging in massive equity buyouts . apparently , the terms offered by the us government ( libor +5 % and collateral ) turned out to be the right on target . nor , in the end , have the oligarchs been bailed out .
washington , dc – as chinese president xi jinping ’s first summit with us president donald trump takes office on trump ’s lavish , florida estate , at least part of the discussion will invariably focus on one of the world ’s most impoverished places : north korea . despite more than two decades of on-again on-again off-again negotiations , north korea ’s nuclear-weapons program actually pushes the world toward a strategic watershed , much like the one that the west faced 60 years ago , when the united states and the soviet union faced off against each other in europe . the us and its allies navigated the challenge for europe in the twentieth century without war . when the us and the soviet union became rivals after world war ii , each had the way to deterring another from attack . yet , to achieve a comparable success for east asia today , trump needs to persuade xi to adopt an alternative policy toward north korea .
theories of “ red toryism ” might go some way in this direction , but it remains to be seen whether they will ever translate into practice . for the moment , the temptation is for the european right to figure out its “ new look ” through a selective appeal to religion – and to wait and see whether it operates as an electoral strategy to do so should remember , though , starting a kulturkampf might be able to play with fire : an instrumentalize religious passions can not be permanently controlled from above . that is not an absurd idea ; it is , after all , in the past . there is a long and distinguished tradition of catholic social thought in various ways . but taking these traditions seriously would require a much larger transfer of crony capitalism than even avowed christian democrats ready to believe , including a much broader distribution of ownership and mechanisms for management workers .
fiscal sustainability demands an eventual rise in the consumption tax , and , of course , japan should not wait until international investors begin doubting its willpower . postponing a second consumption-tax hike seems like a good compromise between pushing abenomics to escape velocity and maintaining its long-run credibility . but this brings us back to japan ’s deeper problems . demand policies on their own will not , alone , impede two more lost decades ; much less ensure two “ golden ” golden ones . the challenge , then , is in the timing and tactics ; it may be a moment , but that requires us to guard against it .
unusually for her , former first lady laura bush spoke out against the politics of taking children from their mothers . ordinarily , the policy of separating families threatened to drive a wedge between trump and even his evangelical adherents . as a result , one problem for trump is that he is obsessed with appearing “ forceful . ” ordinarily , congressional republicans panicked and telling trump and his team that his abrupt policy of tearing up families apart could wreck their chances in november ’s midterm elections . and they were willing to overlook growing evidence of trump ’s sexual hijinks during his first lady ’s marriage , melania ( including the apparent payoffs to a porn star and others for quiet ) , in exchange for political influence and the appointments of social conservatives to the supreme court , and throughout the federal judiciary . one problem for trump now is that he is obsessed with appearing “ strong . ”
but eu membership does not mean the estrangement from russia . besides , excluding ukraine from eventual eu membership will stimulate russia ’s imperial ambitions . this will diminish the chances of ever becoming a full-fledged democracy , because it can govern the empire only as a militarized state . an ever-larger eu including ukraine would produce a political unit with a huge population , furthering the union ’s ambitions for a global power . it is the mark of a good club that people clamor to be members to be members .
in just a few years , refugees were absorbed into the economy and societies of the southern , greek-greek cypriot sector of israel . as in post-world war ii west germany , much of the current prosperity in cyprus today is an outcome of the boost that the us economy has received from absorbing refugees . the schools and the training centers used to be set up , but not necessarily in the past , of schools and training centers . anyone visiting the greek cypriot state nowadays will not find any refugee camps : most of the millions of tourists unaware that more than one-third of greek cypriots they encounter are refugees or the descendants of refugee children . nor have eu firms been pressured into government subsidies and loans .
meanwhile , in nigeria , astonishing economic growth , averaging 7 % a year since 2000 , perhaps well reduced poverty in the country ’s southwest ; but in the northeastern northeast ( where the extremist group boko haram is most active ) , shocking levels of wealth inequality and poverty have emerged . across the developed and developing worlds , many suspect that the rich are becoming richer , because they are not kept to the same rules as everyone else . therefore , alongside inequality , falling public trust fuels the revolt against globalization and democracy . similar trends are apparent , from china to egypt to greece . across the developed and developing worlds , many suspect that the rich are becoming richer , because they are not kept to the same rules as everyone else .
after all , russia is the one country with sufficient missiles and nuclear warheads to destroy the us . russia ’s officers reported directly that they are commanding large military operations in eastern ukraine , including both the siege and capture the important transportation center of debaltseve in february . yet , the threat that russia poses extends far beyond ukraine . indeed , it has revived cold war-era tactic to dispatch military aircraft unannounced near airspace over the baltic countries and the north sea ; it has elicited veiled nuclear threats against countries like denmark . as its economic and geopolitical influence waned , so has its willingness to consider renouncing its nuclear status .
for now , it remains uncertain which model will actually prevail . contrary to what many democratic cassandras have thought , the worst is not all inevitable . authoritarians and populists have still not triumphed ; and , in many places , democrats are fighting back . or , to put it less optimistically , democracy and autocracy still have a similar chance of a decaying one . as the franco-lebanese writer amin maalouf put it , it is “ better to err on hope than to be right with despair . ”
the prevailing answer is that one coerces bondholders to acquiesce to a deal voluntarily . one might dismiss this argument as mere rhetoric . but , using the logic of talmudic , one can also show that there are mechanisms that can – and should – be used to place pressure on parties in the interest of gaining superior voluntary results . there are two preponderant interpretations of the talmudic passage . one argues that coercion can change minds , and we do not .
tokyo – with japan ’s economy struggling to escape its deflationary torpor , the economic-revitalization plan initiated by prime minister shinzo abe initiated in 2012 , has come under growing scrutiny . since abenomics was introduced , japan ’s labor market has improved considerably : 1.5 million new jobs have been created , with the unemployment rate plummeting to just over 3 % . moreover , corporate earnings have soared , with tax revenues up by more than ¥ 20 trillion ( $ 188 billion ) . but japan ’s current travails , which had brought the concomitant drop in japan ’s stock market , stem from the yen ’s appreciation – to 24 % over the last year – against the major currencies . “ abenomics ” – which included substantial monetary and fiscal expansion – has nothing to do with that .
milan – the worst of a financialized economic crisis appears to be coming to an end . growth in the united states and parts of europe have been bounced back . and emerging-market growth has returned to pre-crisis levels , and appears sustainable , helped by unorthodox policies intended to “ “ sterilize ” massive capital inflows . growth in the united states and parts of europe has bounced back . private-sector deleveraging has continued , but counterbalanced by rising public-sector deficits and debt .
in a world of sovereign states , is it hypocritical for some to possess nuclear weapons and deny them a chance to do the rest of us ? if nobody had a bomb today , it would be best if it were not invented . but history depends on the paths taken in the past . suppose that back in 1939 , states debating whether america needed to invent the bomb . maybe they argued that all should get it or none at all .
hong kong – china ’s transformation from a manufacturing-led and export-led economy to one underpinning of services and domestic consumption is underway . household consumption has started to climb , even as the pace of investment has fallen , and now exceeds 60 % of gdp . and that is good news not only for china , but also for the future of the global economy . the 2016-17 edition of china ’s blue book commercial sector by fung commercial intelligence and the chinese academy of social sciences maps the change . china ’s retail markets peaked at cn ¥ 30 trillion ( $ 4.6 trillion ) in 2015 , after more than a decade of double-digit gdp growth .
part of the attraction of these synthetic drugs is that they are readily available , unaffordable , and convenient to use ( no need to fire , snort , or smog ) . but what goes on to head must go down . amphetamines expedite the way the body functions : users experience increased confidence , sociability , and energy . this buzz is considered harmless : “ pills will not kill or spread hiv/aids , ” ” ” ” ” it is said . the global market for such stimulants is estimated to be worth as much as $ 65 billion , or nearly $ 70 .
unfortunately , africa ’s wars -- in congo , rwanda and burundi , liberia , sierra leone , and the ivory coast -- have yet to receive the attention that they demand . sadly , africa ’s wars -- in congo , rwanda , and burundi , liberia , sierra leone , and the ivory coast -- have yet to receive the attention that they require . trials of the balkan wars and the numerous wars that consumed afghanistan during the 1990 ’s were launched through international organizations like the united nations environment program ( unep ) . experiments have been made ever since to scrutinize and document the environmental implications of wars . first , all effects depend on the types of war .
paris – whoever wins september ’s parliamentary election in germany , the time has come yet again for a significant franco-german initiative . whatever their economic conditions , or they lack the confidence , or lack the confidence – in each other , france and germany , for example , are more than ever joint liability for the future , if not its very survival , of the european project . joining great britain with them in a club of three would be a very good idea ; but , again , it is off the question . britain has largely excluded itself from any leadership role in europe . are there alternatives to franco-german leadership of europe ?
upon going back to office this spring as prime minister , singh brought to government an experienced and internationally renowned team , including finance minister chidambaram , which had served successfully as finance minister in the mid-1990 ’s , and dr. montek singh ’s ahluwalia , who heads the planning commission , the crucial body evaluating india ’s medium-term public-finance strategies . chidambaram ’s 2004/2005 budget puts those fears to rest . for short , the budget is a role model for all developing countries as well . upon returning to office this spring as prime minister , singh brought the government an experienced and internationally renowned team , including finance minister chidambaram , who had served successfully as finance minister in the mid-1990 ’s , and dr. montek singh ’s ahluwalia , who heads the country ’s planning commission , the crucial body evaluating india ’s medium-term public-finance strategies . the paper provides the brilliant lesson of contemporary economics : it reveals how to combine the full speed ahead of market-led reforms with urgently needed attention for poverty .
for example , the impact of the 2008 financial crisis on ukraine and russia might ultimately be behind the recent warsaw pact . according to the international monetary fund , both ukraine and russia experienced a spectacular increase from 2002 to 2007 : over those five years , real per capita gdp grew by 52 % in ukraine and 46 % in russia . that is now history : real per capita gdp growth was just 0.2 % in ukraine last year , and only 1.3 % in russia . and such fears can have severe consequences , which are likely to have severe repercussions . the discontent generated by such frustration may help to explain the anger of ukrainian separatists , russia ’s discontent , and russian president vladimir putin ’s decision to annex crimea and support the separatists .
fourth , the eu ’s aspiration for a common foreign and security policy must be addressed . the threats facing the world today are supranational , so counteracting them must be supranational , too . but this is impossible without a clear european identity – and thus a shared interest that is asserted and defended . with the right policies , which measures can ensure the eu ’s global competitiveness ? how can we narrow the existing gap in development and material welfare within europe ?
barcelona – after world war i , when millions of european civilians were forcibly made refugees , forced out of their homelands thanks to hostile occupation or deportation , an international regime has developed to coordinate effective responses and ease the suffering that uprooted those . a century later , another refugee crisis is in place , and this time is europe with the power to provide a safe haven for desperate people . yet it has not risen to the occasion , with many of its responses failing to match the urgency of the situation . in just the early months of 2015 , more than 38,000 people attempted to reach europe by crossing the mediterranean from north africa . some 1,800 people have died as a result – more than twice the number of such deaths since all 2013 .
for starters , american sanctions ultimately brought iran to the table to negotiate a nuclear deal ; but sanctions were effective only because a broad international coalition ultimately backed by the un security council , an isolated iran financially . america ’s sanctions against russia after the latter ’s annexation of crimea in 2014 were compounded by a coincidental oil-price drop and the imposition of similar measures by europe , russia ’s largest trading partner . without eu participation , american sanctions would have been far less effective . but , while international coalitions lend their credibility to american sanctions , they are fragile and temporary , at best . just over a year after the iran deal was reached , it is already hard to imagine that china or russia could back further joint action on iran , even as the deal started to unravel .
until 2003 , india ’s foreign ministry had a unified division of africa ; it now has three : west and central africa , east and south africa , and west asia and north africa . nigeria is india ’s largest single trading partner . bilateral annual trade-turnover exceeds $ 3 billion ; with oil constituting more than 96 % of indian imports from nigeria . india ’s state-run oil and natural gas corporation ( ongc videsh ) produces sudanese oil and over the next two years , india ’s diplomatic missions will open in mali , gabon , niger , and burkina faso . a study by the confederation of india ’s chambers of commerce and industry has identified five major sectors that can act as “ engines of growth ” to invigorate an indo-africa trade system : pharmaceuticals and the country ’s health sector , information technology , water management , and education .
former israeli foreign minister shlomo ben-ami recently outlined a new peace paradigm for the negotiation between israel and palestine , in which participation from actors like the european union , russia , and key arab countries would facilitate the rise of a truly international solution . that paradigm should be expanded to the geneva ii negotiations on the syrian civil war , with countries like saudi arabia , iran , turkey , and egypt assuming a greater role . to be sure , involving the regional powers could complicate already-muddy negotiations further . only with a balanced negotiating process guided by regional and global actors can a stable balance of power in the middle east be achieved . accordingly , the goal must be clarity and equilibrium .
milan – the word “ openness ” has two related but distinct connotations . it may mean that something is unconstrained , accessible , and perhaps vulnerable ; or it can mean something , like a person or institution , is transparent as opposed to being secretive . after all , structural change can be beneficial and disruptive ; in turn , it can be . and policymakers have long had to strike the balance between an abstraction of openness and concrete action to address the worst effects of change . the first meaning frequently concerns trade , investment , and technology ( though most definitions do not correspond with an opportunity ) that has always driven structural economic change , particularly with respect to employment .
but such “ wealth effects ” and “ animal spirits ” have proved quite feeble . so the fed felt compelled to do more of the same , leading to a host of unintended consequences and risks of collateral damage that i discussed in some detail in my book the single game in city . faced with this unfortunate reality , the fed tried to stimulate growth-promoting growth through its own indirect , experimental ways . by injecting liquidity using multiple means , it raised financial asset prices well above what the economy warranted . the fed hoped that this would drive out certain segments of the us population ( asset holders ) feel wealthier , enticing it to spend more and invigorate the companies to invest more .
what remains unaddressed is the root cause of abnormal brain activations . the first relies on studies suggesting that schizophrenia patients suffer from reduced brain connectivity . as a result , certain clusters of neurons , such as those responsible for producing and marrying language , can begin to function autonomously , beyond the control or influence of other brain systems . it is as if the string of orchestra suddenly has decided to play its own music , disregarding each else . in the process , we pursue three intertwined modes of thought , and we do not help us now .
the very existence of some caribbean countries , including portions of trinidad and tobago , could be endangered if sea levels rise . i have seen shrinking glaciers in antarctica and the andes ’ loss of biodiversity . i have seen the effects of deforestation in the brazilian amazon and biodiversity loss . but bold , visionary leadership will be required to seal off a successor treaty to the kyoto protocol in copenhagen this year . the deal reached there needs to be an ambitious , effective , and just offer rich countries a way to cut greenhouse-gas emissions , while supporting poorer countries as they adapt to the adverse impact of climate change .
while singapore ’s political system could not readily converge to a huge country like china , it constitutes a model that helped to shape china ’s recent move toward meritocracy . indeed , following singapore ’s example , china developed a sophisticated and comprehensive system for selecting and promoting political leaders that involves decades of training and a battery of exam for officials at the various stages of their careers . these meritocratically selected leaders overseen an economic boom that lifted several hundred million people out of poverty . at the same time , however , problems like corruption , inequality , environmental degradation , official corruption , and repression of political dissent and religious expression have worsened . since the 1990s , thousands of chinese officials have traveled to singapore to learn from its experience .
relations between the two allies have now entered one of those periods of tension flared up many times since the close of world war ii . today , nothing seems left of franco-american goodwill . the united states has vetoed reelection , advocated by france , of un secretary general babur boutros-ghali , arguing that it wanted to “ enlarge the role ” of un general secretary in reforming the world body . ( on both sides of this spat was rather paradoxical , if one recalls that de gaulle wanted to reduce as much as possible with the un ’s powers , to which he contemptuously refers to him as “ veamajig ” ; and that america owes more than $ 1 billion in past due contributions to the un . at the same time , washington does n’t even want to hear any talk about conferring on a europe , as france demands , the command of the allied treaties in the mediterranean .
freer trade across borders reduces income disparities . most powerful of all , free trade underpins economic growth , which means that millions more people lifted out of poverty . a 2015 white house report found , for example , that a ten-percentage-point reduction in tariff reductions leads to a one-percentage-point drop in the gender wage gap , and that lowering tariffs also reduces wage gaps based on race and immigration status . moreover , increased openness to trade is linked to lower rates of infant mortality and higher life expectancy , particularly in developing countries . over time , freer trade enables workers to shift to more efficient industries , resulting in higher wages , increased infrastructure investment , and a more dynamic economy .
in 1997 , hong kong handled half of china ’s foreign trade , and its gdp amounted to nearly one-fifth of china ’s . it far outstripped shanghai – mainland china – of the most prosperous city in terms of gdp , per capita income , and the shipping volume . yet hong kong ’s advantages are now under threat , largely owing to its own set of external insecurities . as several commentators have pointed out , mainland china ’s remarkable economic growth and development in recent decades has eroded hong kong ’s leading position as the center for finance , logistics , and trade . today , hong kong accounts for just one-eighth of china ’s trade .
finally , remaining in the eu ’s customs union would force it to avoid re-establishing a hard border between the uk and the schengen republic of ireland after brexit . the alternatives available for the eu are either to see the uk go out of its customs union or keeping the uk in , by making a political commitment to taking british interests into consideration . what brexit is and will remain is a lose-lose proposition . though may has agreed that avoiding a hard border should be part of any arrangement , she has offered only vague suggestions regarding how that might actually be done . from a long-term perspective , the latter is preferable .
various studies indicate that tall men often favored and that corporate ceos are taller than the average . yet some of the most powerful leaders in history , such as napoleon , stalin , and deng xiaoping , had been little more than five feet tall . the traits-centered approach has not vanished from leadership studies , but it has been broadened and made more flexible . a tall , handsome person is entering a room , attracting attention and “ look like a leader . ” the search for the essential traits of a leader dominated by leadership study until the late 1940 ’s and remains common in popular discourse today .
a globalization that can be defined as inter-continental distances interdependence is as old as human history . witness the migration of peoples and religions , or trade along the ancient silk route connecting medieval europe and asia . in 1919 , the economist john maynard keynes described the possibility of the englishman in london , using the telephone to order goods from around the world to deliver their home place in his afternoon . but today globalization is different , because it is becoming faster and thicker . after the first trans-atlantic cable in 1868 , europe and america were able to communicate a single minute .
for example , the endowment or pension fund might consider basing its payrolls more on long-run , potential shock-adjusted averages than on a simple , weighted average of past returns or end-of-period asset values ( the usual practice now itself ) . one might argue , of course , that post-crisis regulatory reform will ultimately resolve the problem of periodic systemic risks and a return to a more enjoyable world of relatively stationary risks without periodic imbalances . but i would be reluctant to bet heavily on this happening after the fact . after all , financial innovation will advance along with regulatory arbitrage . the historical evidence indicates that systemic risk is persistent and resilient to regulatory efforts to eliminate it .
either technology will depend on a national electricity grid that uses low-emission forms of power generation such as wind , solar , nuclear , or coal-fired power plants that capture and store carbon-dioxide emissions . all of these technologies will require public finance alongside private investment . third , an american recovery will be impossible unless there is also a strategy to get the government ’s own finances in order . george w. bush ’s vision of economic policy was to cut taxes three times as much as to increase war-related spending . the result is a massive budget deficit to expand to gargantuan proportions in the coming year ( perhaps $ 1 trillion ) under the added weight of recessions , bank bailouts , and short-term fiscal stimulus measures .
according to the 2005 declaration of international election principles , credible monitoring requires meeting the five criteria . first , an international network of observers must be autonomous – and otherwise – in their relations with the host country . second , observers must be given unrestricted access to all aspects and phases of the election process , as well as to all the technologies involved . third , with the support of all institutions and political actors , observers must confront lack of constraint . fourth , observers must avoid any constraint in meeting any of the authorities ’ authority .
as the list of criteria grows longer , it becomes apparent that the most easily measured component , punctuality , is , but one of the many desirable features , and not necessarily the ones most relevant . more important still , they should be affordable . doing so should be safe , too , and reasonably convenient . they should run not only on time , but on the right , and at the right time and in reasonable intervals . this example concerns the public-services policies that dominates debate in many countries because it lies at the heart of the big problems of both government budgets ( and cutting back ) and taxation ( and cutting back ) .
distribution is the haphazard and uncoordinated , done with little thought to take place . we saw the relief workers dumping packets of food and clothing from trucks ’ peak , causing a rebellion . hustlers thrive , a feeble watch passively in most places . we saw relief workers throw packets of food and clothing from trucks top , a riot . but people told us that they often miss , and set land up thousands of feet or beneath deep forests .
in fact , a process of channeling technological change , ” in which bold goals are set , milestones are identified , and the timelines are placed to put into place , is far more common than many realized . the information-technology revolution that has brought us computers , smartphones , gps , and much more was built on a series of industry and government roadmaps . for example , in performing the manhattan project ( producing the atomic bomb during world war ii ) and the first moon landing , the american government set a remarkable technological goal , established a bold timetable , and committed the financing resources needed to get the job done . in both cases , the scientists and engineers delivered on time . the example of the atomic bombs might seem like an uncomfortable one ; yet it raises an important question : if we ask governments and scientists to cooperate on war technology , then should n’t we do at least the same to save the planet from carbon pollution ?
but anti-americanism is simply irrational for russia , which stands only to gain from an alliance with the world ’s economic and political leader . of course , good relations with europe have a priority on russia , particularly its economic links , human connections , and social interactions . russia will also benefit from active foreign-policy engagement with the eu . yet a us strategic alliance with the eu on foreign and security policies remains unrealistic and inefficient . europe will most likely continue to grow weaker , rather than stronger in the field .
a influenza outbreak , like that of 1918-1920 , that killed between 50 and 100 million people today , would be even more devastating today . moreover , globalization has compounded the danger by facilitating the spread of communicable diseases . and , with the rise of new diseases like zika – together with the revitalization of old foes like bubonic plague – there is no question that much of humanity remains at the mercy of biology . to prevent such catastrophic outcomes , we need a comprehensive approach to boosting health-care delivery in low – and middle-income countries . specifically , these countries need help to improve drug-delivery and manage chronic diseases like cancer and diabetes , which impose an immense burden on their economies .
piketty ’s book makes an invaluable allowance for our understanding of the dynamics of contemporary inequality . the benefit of income-tax increases is that they might be based not just on current income , but on some median income over years , and might enable investment deductions , thereby sharing some features with wealth taxes , without penalizing those who saved more to accumulate more wealth . moreover , a long-planned plan legislated by one or a few countries today , before any substantial impact on actual tax payments occurs , might help promote an international dialogue about appropriate future policy toward inequality . that would create room for a more unified fiscal response among countries , thereby reducing the super-rich ’s ability to evade taxation by transition . and , if wealth taxes should be raised , now to take effect only in the future – and only if inequality becomes far worse – would preempt the perception that the rules were changed after the games ended .
many spent years in prison for daring to speak out against china ; and , as i grew older , i vowed to speak out as well , so did it . my first stint in the chinese prison was tied to work that i started in my early 2000s printing and distributing tibetan-language books . as the 2008 olympics approached , i began to search for new ways to record my people ’s history . nonetheless , chinese authorities viewed them as a challenge to their rule , and punished me accordingly . i considered that these texts were important readings of tibetan politics , culture , and religion .
warsaw – the massive protests in warsaw have made headlines worldwide in recent weeks . poles are demonstrating against enacted legislation and justice ( pis ) party ’s ability to lower the retirement age of its supreme court justices , effectively force all judges above the age of 65 , and to allow the pis to pack the courts with its own tame justices . yet the new law enables polish president andrzej duda to replace up to three-fifths of the supreme court ’s justices , including the chief justice himself , in 2018 . the polish constitution stipulates that an independent judiciary is an independent and sets the term for the supreme court ’s first president at six years . this means that judges can not dismantle laws – at least not constitutionally .
the latest proof : mauricio funes , the fmln ’s standard bearer until n’t long ago the marxist guerilla movement , just prevailed in el salvador ’s presidential election . this is remarkable in a country that , for as long as anyone recalls , was ruled out , hook , or crook , by a reactionary oligarchy . back in his radical days , ken livingstone , the former london mayor , famously quipped that if the voting changes were anything , they would abolish it . if the salvadoran left ’s close electoral victory were accepted peacefully – as it has so far – it means that latin america has indeed come a long way . in latin america , it turns out , elections really shake things up .
the economist friedrich hayek put it well in 1945 : “ [ t ] here is beyond question a body of very important but unorganized knowledge , which can not possibly call a scientific in the sense of the general rules being identified : an awareness of particular circumstances and place . ” it is with respect that practically every individual has some advantage over all others in that he possesses the unique insights of which beneficial use might be made , but which use can be made using only if the decisions depending on it are left to do so or are made with active cooperation . the problem is that the promise of genuine “ unique information ” comes with the reality of vulnerability to deception . that is why channeling dispersed knowledge into new firms requires a regulatory framework that favors the genuinely enlightened and honest . the problem is that the promise of genuine “ unique information ” comes with the reality of vulnerability of deception .
in reality , all are gearing up behind the scenes for a “ copenhagen 2 , ” ” and what those involved in the talks call the us “ an even bigger slog . ” even if some sort of communiqué proves paved together in december – and the countries with elections coming up , like the united kingdom , will press ahead with one – it is hard to believe that it will contain sufficient detail or to reflect an orderly level of commitment that impact so desperately needed . with more than 1,000 points still to be agreed , all the policymakers i ’ve spoken to put out recently say that they can not see how meaningful agreement through december in copenhagen . perhaps the only people not suddenly depressed are those immersed in negotiations . “ copenhagen 1 ” was always bound to fail , in part because , and this one might first sound strange , it is all about climate change .
sales of electric cars have risen dramatically in recent years ; some 750,000 have been registered in 2016 – almost half as many as in china . still , it is human nature that will resist change , leaving many prospective buyers hesitant . a few changes are needed to ensure that growth in ev usage and sales continues . more people are arriving at the same conclusion , and those in the us championing evs as one solution for climate change are optimistic that a tipping point is approaching . that is why tackling the challenge of consumption must be a top priority over the coming years .
the gradual marginalization of the wto would also erode its credibility in fulfilling its core role as the adjudicator of trade disputes . a focus on preferential agreements would fragment the global trading system , rather than integrating it . the success of the wto ’s adjudication system reflects its widespread acceptance . even when wto decisions have had serious adverse effects on the trading partner , they have generally been accepted . this constitutes a remarkable advance in global governance .
it is as if they can not see how reforms can help restart an economy with deep structural problems . now that the greek government has delivered on its part of the bailout deal , the time that its european and international counterparts are concluding a first revision of the program . the energy market – most importantly , its natural gas market and its tourist rentals market have been liberalized , and the process for acquiring an investment license has been streamlined . all of this has been accomplished in the face of intense criticism from opposition parties , particularly those that have governed greece over the past 30 years , and thus bear responsibility for driving it to ruin . this will enable the government to pursue a second phase : coping with skyrocketing unemployment and put the economy back on a path to growth .
madrid – tackling climate change presents a monumental challenge , the leader of foremost global power is continuing to lament its hands of the matter . in early november , us president donald trump handed official warnings of america ’s withdrawal from the paris climate agreement , thereby affirming a decision that he marked in 2017 . the announcement came just as the deal was allowed to be made , and the withdrawal will become effective the day after america ’s presidential election in november 2020 . accordingly , the united states will become the only non-us country for a pact . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
for starters , it is a true stretch to bemoan america ’s corporate earnings . for starters , it is a true stretch to bemoan america ’s corporate earnings . commerce department statistics show that after-tax corporate profits ( technically , after-tax profits on output , adjusted for inventories , and depreciation-accounting distortions ) stand at a solid 9.7 % of national income in the third quarter of 2016 . trends in corporate taxes , standing at just 3.5 % of national income in the third quarter of 2016 , encourage a similar verdict . while this is down from its 11 % peak hit in 2012 , owing to tepid economic growth , which typically puts downward pressure on profit margins , it hardly attests to the problem of a chronic earnings problem . far from anemic , current gdp shares of after-tax profits well above the post-1980 average of 7.6 % .
the widespread prescription of drug for troubled minds has always ended badly ; the right back to the days of opiates and cocaine , up through bromides , barbiturates , and tranquilizers : all proved highly addictive drugs , but only after years of denial had doctors admit that doing so had been such a way . now anti-depressants -- global labels with housenames -- are the problem . in england prescriptions of the anti-depressants now match valium at its peaks in 1979 . it is now clear that today 's anti-depressants are not the wonder drugs they were touted as being . in england , prescriptions of anti-depressants now match valium at their peaks in 1979 .
of course , such measures will be unpopular with labor and the correct response here , say , to remove large payroll taxes so that money wages can rise without the offsetting decline in competitiveness . indeed , most high-unemployment economies have displayed little feedback from the currency collapse to inflation . in venezuela , with a 20 % unemployment rate , the same is also widely expected . the best outcome , of course , is for chavez to shift the economy in the less exposed external position with a large ( 50 % at least ) depreciation . in the budget this is paying for the favorable effect of devaluation on government oil revenues .
washington , dc – millions of the world ’s poorest people face severe water-related challenges , from lack of access and under-capacity to disputes over supplies – with profound implications for security , economic development , and ecological sustainability . consider this : almost one billion people worldwide lack access to safe drinking water and their 2.5 billion people lack adequate sanitation . the costs are staggering : thousands of child deaths each day , and annual economic losses an estimated $ 260 billion – more than double the global total of official development assistance ( oda ) – are staggering . making matters worse , climate change will render water supply more unpredictable , with increasingly frequent and intense floods , and droughts imposing significant human and economic costs and hinders development in poor countries . as world leaders design the development agenda to succeed the millennium development goals ( mdgs ) , which expire in 2015 , addressing these issues should be a top priority .
but all public actors , not just the police , must respond to urban problems . events in france also highlights the need , at the european level , to reinforce policies to counter discrimination and that promoting social equality . first and foremost , mayors should be mobilized as mediators because they are on the front lines in implementing urban policy . when these policies go down , citizens hold mayors accountable . yet mayors are also the most knowledgeable in communication linkages within their communities , and are therefore the most adept at organizing effective partnerships to address and settle on local issues .
america ’s example , the world ’s only full employment economy , demonstrates that it can . in america , time on the welfare state is now limited , and those who have not worked for years have suddenly had to do so . likewise , the welfare state is being undermined . replacing earnings through unemployment compensation ( after-tax adjustment ) hits 70 % and up . in europe , by contrast , unemployment remains a “ good ” job .
zurich – repeatedly over the last few years , there has been calls for a civilian nuclear revival . indeed , of the world ’s more than 200 countries , only about 30 use nuclear power . yet , so far , that renaissance never appears to have arrived . indeed , of the world ’s more than 200 countries , only about 30 use nuclear power . roughly 16 % of global energy needs ( up from about 25 % in the highly industrialized countries ) are now met with electric energy . in july 2010 , a cumulative 439 nuclear-power plants with the collective installed capacity of 373,038 gw ( e ) teamed up with different national electricity grids about 1.2 gw ( e ) more than at the start of 2006 .
denver – the united states constitution that turned 225 years into history last summer is a remarkable paper : the provisions of a text written in eighteenth-century france continue to guide twenty-first-century governance . it will be remembered for the implications of that in the coming weeks as us president barack obama fills senior positions in his second-term administration . article ii of the us constitution stipulates presidential powers that require the senate ’s “ advice and assent , ” including the nomination of senior officials . the implications of this will be reminiscent of this in the coming weeks , as us president barack obama fills senior positions in his second-term administration . arguably , 225 years ago , any idea that the number of officials deemed to demand senate confirmation would ultimately exceed 1,400 , or that senate confirmation would involve a vetting process that often takes years to complete .
but this sense of solidarity has been persistently missing in the eu ’s energy-policy discourse . a crucial dimension of the current standoff over ukraine is energy , and it raises the same question of european solidarity . for example , in response to an embargo affecting a particular country , other eu members would draw on their reserves , increase their own output , pay more for imports , or curtail their consumption a bit . as a recent study by bruegel has shown , the eu as a whole can with some effort , dispense with gas imports from russia . but doing so would require eu member states to respect supply security as a matter of shared concern , not an issue that each country must address on its own .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . no one is surprised that trump himself is deploying every orwellian device on his disposal to thwart the current impeachment inquiry in the us house of representatives . it appears that the us department of justice under president donald trump is continuing that tradition .
hypothetically , switching off the lights for one hour would cut co2 emissions from power plants around the world . as united kingdom ’s national grid operators discovered , the small drop in electricity consumption does not translate into less energy being channeled into the grid , and therefore would thus not reduce emissions . but , even if everyone everywhere in the world cuts all residential lighting and this translated completely into reduced co2 emissions , it would still be the equivalent of china ’s pausing its co2 emissions for less than four minutes . moreover , during earth hour , any meaningful drop in global electricity demand will deliver the reduction of co2 emissions over the hour , but offset the surge from the burning of co2 or gas-fired power stations to restore electricity supplies pending . indeed , earth hour causes the increase in emissions that ’s actually increasing .
the institute of labour appears to center on the devices that read brain activity . if the us keeps following the scientific-cash trail , the us arrive at the prestigious russian academy of sciences ( ran ) , which held elections last week . but it also apparently oversees all kinds of construction projects on a massive plot of land neighboring countries to the us federal national security service ( fsb ) – the kgb ’s successor organization and the us federal protective services . after the organization general assembly ’s 2013 elections , in which the kremlin-backed parliamentarians would not perform well , the us government announced major reforms , including a three-year moratorium on ran local elections . it was then decided that , to ensure accountability , ” the us government would approve all candidates , despite the fact that it is academics .
airing opinions is the cheapest way to fill a broadcasting hour ; ranting anchors score the top trps . so , rather than providing context , depth , and analysis , newspapers are blasting headlines that spur prurience or outrage . more fundamentally , the rush to beat tv by breaking stories has weakened journalists ’ incentives to perform due diligence , in adjusting for researching stories and verifying claims . this reinforces the motivation to engage in sensational speculation , yet baseless , as occurred in deldevi ’s case . the result has been unsettling , to put it mildly .
washington , dc – the informed opinion is split sharply over how the next twelve months will play out for the global economy . those focused on emerging markets are emphasizing accelerating growth , with some forecasts filing a 5 % increase in world output . others , alarmed by the problems in europe and the united states , remain more pessimistic , with growth projections approaching 4 % – and some inclined to see a possible “ double-dip ” recession . this is an intriguing debate , but it misses the larger picture . in responding to the 2007-2009 crisis , governments in most industrialized countries put themselves in place some of the most generous bailouts ever seen in large financial institutions .
one puzzling and often overlooked feature of france ’s which elected nicolas sarkozy as his new president , and that is now poised to give his political allies a powerful parliamentary mandate , is its mix of private optimism and public pessimism . consider this : france has the highest fertility rate in the european union ( just under two children per woman ) even ahead of booming ireland . of course , that rate alone is not enough to sustain france ’s current population , but it ’s ’s ’s far stronger than its european neighbors and near that of the american people . yet , despite this , eurobarometer polls repeatedly show that the french are the most pessimistic of all europeans when they look to their country for the future . to be sure , that rate alone is not deep enough to sustain france ’s current population , but it ’s ’s far stronger than its european neighbors and nearly equal per capita gdp .
new york – a reception in the united states and elsewhere in thomas piketty ’s recent book capital in the twenty-first century attests to growing worries about rising inequality . his book lends further weight to an already overwhelming body of evidence regarding the soaring share of income and wealth at its very top . piketty ’s book , moreover , provides a very different perspective on the 30 or so years that followed the great depression and world war ii , viewing this period as a historical anomaly , perhaps motivated by the unusual underlying social cohesion that cataclysmic events can stimulate . in that era of rapid economic growth , prosperity has been broadly shared , with all groups advancing but with those at the bottom seeing greater percentage gains . piketty also sheds new light on the “ reforms ” sold by ronald reagan and margaret thatcher in the 1980s as growth enhancers from which all would benefit . piketty also sheds new light on the “ reforms ” sold by ronald reagan and margaret thatcher in the 1980s as growth enhancers of which all would benefit .
this windfall of gdp , although a natural result of lower imports of consumer durables , often seems to be mistakenly perceived as something to be avoided , because it seems to imply that output is well below its “ potential . ” in a fully flexible economy , that drop in measured gdp ( and the concomitant rise in unemployment ) might be avoided if the resources formerly employed in sales of imported consumer goods could be rapidly used to generate exports . in the us , greece and portugal , for example , the tourism industry might absorb some unemployed retailers . but retail shop clerks and auto dealers can not easily transform tourist attractions , whose capacity will remain confined until enough time enough time has passed to build new hotels , recreational facilities , and so on . but shops and showrooms can not easily transform tourist attractions , whose capacity will remain limited until enough time has passed to build new hotels , recreational facilities , and so
the output gap in advanced economies has all but disappeared ; inflation is picking up ; and world economic growth is forecast to remain its strongest since 2010 . in 2013 , japan was the only advanced economy to relax fiscal policy in the first place . this year , however , the united kingdom appears to be the only prepared to tighten its policy – and that on the assumption of recent political ruptures has n’t altered its fiscal orientation , reflected in the chancellor of the exchequer this autumn declaration . most observers would agree that government debt levels are uncomfortably high in many advanced economies , so that policymakers would be prudent for policymakers to discuss strategies for bringing them down . but just as fiscal policy was being tightened when cyclical economic conditions seemed to call for a easing , it is now out to be eased when conditions appear to call for tightening .
second , the 70-year period , which began with the automobile ’s widespread diffusion , during which one could get almost anywhere in a typical metropolitan area in a half-hour – or less – is over . prior to widespread automobile ownership , land prices depended on location , and proximity to the central city or to the local railroad station had carried a premium . now , with severe congestion slows traffic in major cities to a crawl , the land gradient in house prices is steep once more once again . before widespread automobile ownership arose , land prices depended on location , and proximity to central city or local railroad station had carried a premium . perhaps this steepening of the placement gradient could have been delayed over a decade had the us been willing to shift to denation/residential patterns .
in fact , for the eurozone , the long run seems to have arrived , and the economy is still alive and kicking . with austerity – that is , deficit cutting , once the recession has ended – the recovery might take longer to become consolidated ; but , once it is , economic performance is even more stable , because government accounts for sustainable growth in the long run . that may be true , on a very long enough timeline – now . but it is no excuse to dismiss longer-term considerations . john maynard keynes famously said , “ in the long run , we are all dead . ”
second , savings and investment flows are global in nature . a country like china , with its high savings rate exceeding local investment needs , can support investment in other parts of the world that save less , notably in low-income africa and asia . ( when american economists advise china to lift consumption and cut back on saving , they are merely peddling the bad habits of american culture that saves and invests far too little for america ’s future . ) a famous psychological experiment found that a young generation of children who could resist the immediate temptation to consume marshmallow and thereby gain two marshmallows in the future is likelier to thrive as adults than they could . likewise , societies that defer instant consumption to save and invest in the future will enjoy higher future incomes and greater retirement security .
but these “ green-energy ” bikes amount to a victory of empty gestures over substance and reason , which makes them the sadly representative of cop21 itself . my peer-reviewed research paper , published in global policy , shows that the 2016-2030 promises to cut co2 emissions will reduce temperature rises by just 0.05 º celsius ( 0.09 ° fahrenheit ) . yet , even if the promised emissions cuts continue over the course of this century , the paris agreement would still cut global temperature rises by just 0.17 ° c. researchers in the massachusetts institute of technology find a similar temperature drop . the deal reached in paris contains promises that if enacted between now and the us 2030 target date , the global economy will cost at least $ 1 trillion every year – and possibly double the damage if policymakers make inefficient policy choices . that is making the agreement the costliest in the history of agreement .
an added worry for both russia and asia is that the russian government is losing control over the unofficial , black-market flows of arms to china . intervention by two american aircraft carriers in the taiwan straits in march 1996 humiliated the chinese , which had been compelled to stop intimidating taiwan with missile tests . despite initial denials by the kremlin , china early this year refrained from buying two more advanced destroyers alongside russia ’s anti-ship missiles . shut out of the united states ’ transfers of military technology and hardware ever since the tiennamen square incident of 1989 ; the feeling increasingly “ encircled ” by the “ redefined ” japan-u.s. alliance ( agreed in april 1996 ) ; and china has been especially anxious to upgrade and consolidate its military might , and quickly . seeing its gross domestic product ’s decline as a percentage of its value since communism ’s end , russia needs to maintain its defense industry as one of the few sources of national revenue .
both obama and romney have run up the risk of painting themselves into a corner as they engage with china . so far , the left has left unanswered , yet again , is what comes next . both obama and romney have run up the risk of picture themselves around a corner when it comes to china . but there is nothing typical in the pressures likely to continue squeezing american families long after november 6 . that could take us to the brink of a slippery slope .
but rising individualism , a focus on one of our own aspirations and economic prosperity , in many countries poses stubborn obstacles to realizing that vision . indeed , the utter lack of a sense of solidarity among so many people , the horrifyingly apparent in the american health-care debate , now undermines the very foundation of what a modern democratic society is . they are the people who , in some ways , lack the full citizenship that demanded it , and who redefined the political order by obtaining it . today , the grand challenge is to calm fears that our traditions are being undermined ; reach out to people coming to our lands from other countries ; and to find ways to overhaul our political ethic around the kernel of human rights , equality , equality , non-discrimination , and democracy . if we succeed , we may be able to make the same sense that we belong together , even though our rationale for believing so may be different .
but halappanavar and her husband were then informed that ireland is a catholic country ; the fetus still has a heartbeat , so the procedures have been left out of the question . halappanavar ’s case thus reverses the western stereotype of eastern societies as preserves of superstition and religious extremism . halappanavar ’s case thus reverses the western stereotype of eastern societies as preserves the superstition and religious extremism . protests in ireland placed prime minister enda kenny on the spot , with activists there , like those elsewhere in india , arguing that halappanavar died , owing to a theocratic approach to health care . iranian abortion-rights activists point out that , legally , the fetus ’s life does not take precedence over the mother ’s life in their country , but it does take precedence over maternal health – a distinction that american abortion opponents have long sought to replicate in the united states .
that explains why park has sought closer ties with china , despite south korea ’s natural regional partner , a democratic japan . one source of hope stems from abe ’s landslide victory in last snap general election , which gives him political capital to reach out to park with a grand bargain : if japan expresses remorse more clearly for its militaristic past , south korea can agree to abandon historical grievances from official policy . all countries ’ legitimizing narratives blend historical reality and myth . but , to a certain extent , historical legacies can gain greatly influence , overwhelming leaders ’ capacity to make rational policy choices . neither japan nor south korea can change this historical past ; if they do , the last thing will be done ?
munich – as america ’s various saving plans take hold , stock markets are recovering somewhat . the s & p 500 price/earnings ratio is inching toward its long peak , to more than 16 . but , as i point out in my new book kasino-kapitalismus , this may merely provide a temporary boost to expectations , rather than signs of a lasting recovery , because the size of the us banks ’ hidden losses on their balance sheets is likely to be massive . according to the international monetary fund ’s most recent projections , total financial claims write-offs in this crisis will amount to $ 4.05 trillion for the united states , japan , the european zone , and the united kingdom , of which the us alone will need to absorb $ 2.7 trillion . in particular , bank shares are rebounding , with some banks even successful in an repaying at least a fraction of their government-issued capital .
a state-led developmental model in bolivia is doomed to fail , because it demands strong institutions , universal citizenship , and the rule of law . whatever remains for public investment is surely wasted , given that projects typically pass cost-benefit analysis when financing comes from easy money , generously provided by maternal nature . none of them can currently be discovered in bolivia , meaning that state-controlled money will undoubtedly be reallocated through patrimonial and clientelistic means , siphoned off through corruption , and subjected to social pressures from all sorts of things . thirty years after bolivia ’s 1952 national revolution , bolivia ’s per capita income remained basically the same , with poverty steady at more than 50 % of gdp . conceived , perhaps , with its best intentions , the morales model gives hope to bolivia ’s poorest people ; but it merely pave the way for frustrated hopes ­ – also nothing new in bolivia .
in recent years , some of those drawn to islamist-inspired extremism have carried out attacks with rudimentary instruments , from cars and delivery trucks to kitchen knives . though violent extremists are an ultra-minority in the muslim population , their actions have fueled a growing mistrust in french society . still , most french citizens remain deeply disturbed by the terrorist threat not only from abroad , but from the people living in france , often according to french citizenship . worse still , a successful military campaign against isis raises new anxiety about violent extremists returning from syria . and similar fears about homegrown extremism can play out in many other european countries .
achieving the needed educational transformation will require far more financing than is currently on offer . while eight of the top ten hosting countries , including several low – and middle-income countries , have shouldered significant costs despite strain on their education systems to ensure that refugees attend school alongside nationals , most countries that either exclude refugees from the national education system , or assign them to isolate such facilities . in fact , this entrenches the disadvantage and hampers the social integration that is needed . the two landmark global accords on migration and refugees adopted last december point the way to address this challenge . as it stands , the global annual financing gap for education amounts to almost $ 40 billion .
the international monetary fund credits asian intra-regional trade as the main factor behind its recent export boom and robust economic growth . the debate over the failure of international aid to produce development , together with the current financial crisis , has added weight to arguments against development assistance . africans themselves need to tackle these issues , but our international partners also have an important role to play . africa , with its huge and often untapped markets , must follow the same path . but the argument should not be about whether to provide aid – no one can question the many achievements that aid has brought , or its relevance in providing a safety net for those who would otherwise be left to suffer .
london – when the united kingdom announced earlier this month that it had agreed to become a founding member of the china-led asian infrastructure investment bank ( aiib ) , most of the headlines focused not on the news itself , but on friction that the decision had produced between the uk and the united states . in the uk , the diplomatic spat has served as an occasion for the british press to air criticism from those who believe that the us government should adopt a stronger stance toward china . ” in fact , it is the us that is advocating a mistaken approach . london – when the united kingdom announced earlier this month that it had agreed to become a founding member of the china-led asian infrastructure investment bank ( aiib ) – most of the headlines focused not on the news itself , but on an early friction between the uk and the united states . the white house did issue a statement urging the british government to “ use its voice to push the adoption of high standards . ”
indeed , it is hard to detect any persuasive analysis of today ’s crisis from the left beyond anti-capitalist slogans . since george w. bush showed the way toward bank nationalization , vast public spending , industrial bailouts , and budget deficits , the socialists have been left without wiggle room . as a result , french president nicolas sarkozy is trying to rekindle growth through a protectionist defense of “ national industries ” and massive public spending , industrial bailouts , and budget deficits , the socialists have been left without wiggle room . the socialists are blamed for greedy financiers , but who will not ? in terms of remedies , the socialists offer nothing but the keynesian solutions now being proposed by the right .
the burden of adjustment can not fall exclusively on deficit countries – unless , that is , it is a moral element of “ punishment ” . the core countries , led by germany , have distrust those over-indebted countries ’ determination to pursue reform should their financing conditions expire . they also demand faster implementation of the necessary changes to the eurozone ’s economic governance , so that the euro can build a more stable and hospitable environment for fiscal consolidation and reform . moreover , they oppose key changes in the eurozone ’s economic governance . protracted recessions , punctuated by high – or prohibitive – borrowing costs makes achieving either fiscal or reform targets increasingly difficult , if not impossible .
when historians look back on the conflict in syria , they will praise both former us presidents barack obama and donald trump for pursuing isis relentlessly . in fact , this does not bode well for any future peace process . after all , it recently raised eyebrows within nato by purchasing new-generation russia ’s s-400 aircraft batteries for its territory . moreover , turkey does not appear to care what its allies have in mind . for example , it recently raised eyebrows within nato yet again by purchasing new-generation russia s-400 drone batteries .
a new g-7 needs to emerge within the g-20 , thereby giving china a degree of influence that reflects its own economic weight and demands that it assume a commensurate share of global responsibilities . simply put , the uk is smart when it promotes its own interests by cooperating with china . space at the table for china might come from the eu if european countries , signaling their commitment to the common currency , agreed to surrender to its individual seats in exchange for one representing the entire monetary union . one of the few positive implications of the 2008 financial crisis has been the elevation of the g20 ’s global role ; it is essentially a far more representative forum for international leadership than the g7 ever was . but there is , however , a downside to the g-20 ’s emergence : large numbers of attendees can force agreements to reach and get things done .
this leaves a host of options for choosing the next wbg president . it could pick an american who appeals to other countries : kim , for example , touted his korean origins during his 2012 post campaign . or it could back a un-american candidate from an allied country . what matters , though , is that the gubg enjoys the trust of america and most other countries , and can reconcile countries with its diverse interests in the true spirit of multilateralism . just as importantly , the gubg president enjoys the trust of america and most other countries , and he can reconcile countries ’s diverse interests in the true spirit of multilateralism .
and , in many cases , china-based think tanks have become instruments for expanding the country ’s sphere of influence . in shadowy influpeddling terms , china ’s conduct has been particularly concern . chinese president xi jinping has explicitly emboldened his country ’s think tanks to “ advance ” the chinese narrative ” globally . according to a report by the european council on foreign relations , china ’s belt and road initiative – with its need for complex coordination – has created the perfect policy space for think tanks that “ tells a good china story ” to prosper . these include networks like the silks and individual think tanks , such as the charhar institute , which have also , more recently , established the “ china-us relations committee . ”
world oil prices have crossed $ 40 a barrel in mid-summer , and have since climbed to the mid – $ 50 . “ higher oil prices are here to stay , ” says the american economic forecaster allen . “ [ t ] hat has to subcontract growth , and could cause core inflation to “ pick up . ” today ’s oil prices still amount to only two-thirds the true peak peaked during the 1979 iranian revolution , and future markets expect the oil-price collapse back and settle at perhaps $ 45 a barrel . yet the current high level of oil prices has led forecasters to start reining in their expectations for economic growth .
now new us legislative proposals threaten to bar american public pension funds from investing in chinese firms , rein in chinese corporate venture capital investments in the us , and push some chinese firms ’ delist projects out of american stock exchanges altogether . cross-border data and information flows will also be restricted , raising concerns over a “ splinternet ” between the us and china . and as a result of increased us scrutiny , chinese foreign direct investment in america has already collapsed by as much as 80 % since its 2017 level . the us has also grown more suspicious of us-based chinese students and scholars that may be in a strong position to steal us technological know-how or engage in outright espionage . and , for its part , china will increasingly seek to circumvent the us-controlled international financial system to shield itself from america ’s weaponization of the dollar .
far-flung military misadventures continue to stretch the country ’s fiscal resources , with costs potentially runs into many billions of dollars , according to a recent study by linda bilmes and joseph stiglitz . next year will almost certainly see a massive rise in america ’s corporate defaults , though many firms have entered a recession with relatively strong balance sheets . in fact , america ’s debt hardly looks like a bargain right now , even without the sinking dollar . state and municipal finances , in turn , are in even worse shape . far-flung military misadventures continue to stretch the country ’s fiscal resources , with costs potentially running into many billions of dollars , according to a recent study by linda bilmes and joseph stiglitz .
collectively , their $ 55 billion in earnings outstripped that of the entire national income of more than 100 countries . how much do america ’s top income earners make up compared to the one billion poorest individuals in the world ? well , by placing these astronomical figures in perspective , i was trying to confirm that to be among the top nine earners in the united states , you had to withdraw at least as much as $ 150 per second , including time spent eating and sleeping . that is $ 9,000 per minute , or $ 540,000 a hour . how much should america ’s top income earners make up compared to the $ 1 trillion of the world ’s poorest individuals ?
she is the well-wisher to everyone ’s freedom and autonomy . but the soft power of inspiration is not the only ethical tradition in american foreign policy . america ’s power is , for the time being , viewed rest on the “ pillar ” pillar of inspiration ” rather than a “ pillar of action . ” for example , us secretary of state john quincy adams famously wrote on independence day in 1821 that the united states “ does n’t goes abroad , in search of monsters to destroy . she is the champion , and vindicator only of herself .
the court ruled against the united states-based animal-rights group people ’s right to the ethical treatment of animals to exhibit posters that juxtaposes photos of the holocaust ’s victims with images of animals in factory farms and slaughterhouses . the court ruled against the united states-based animal-rights group people on the ethical treatment of animals to exhibit posters that juxtaposes photos of the holocaust ’s victims with images of animals in factory farms and the plastics . on the contrary , it applied the holocaust – to which we would all agree – to be totally horrific – to suggest , as isaac bashevis put it , that there are parallels between the way nazis treated jews and the manner in which we treat animals . according to the court , germany ’s laws on free speech did not protect peta ’s campaign because to render “ the fate of the holocaust victims ” appear banal and trivial choices about human dignity . to be sure , peta was not arguing that the holocaust ’s victims ’ fate was banal or trivial .
rather , they fight to protect their own interests and livelihoods , whether working the dairy farm or running a government . as we continually attempt to apply new technologies to improve human and environmental well-being , that distinction is vitally important . avoiding barriers to technological progress requires understanding and addressing its downsides , too . for example , as machines become increasingly capable , robots are replacing an increasing number of workers . it will not be long before those robots are capable not only of performing more elaborate tasks , but also learning faster than workers can be trained .
lacking in export-led growth , therefore , made the recession in greece much longer , and deeper than it otherwise would have been otherwise . moreover , the absence of export-led growth has made fiscal adjustment far more difficult to enact . that represents a potential loss of more than 10 % of greece ’s output . portugal today is ahead of the nearly € 20 billion ( $ 27.5 billion ) investment bank . if greek exports had risen at the same pace as those of portugal ( or spain ) , the greek recession would have ended by now .
given that 80 % of mexico ’s total exports go to the us , the effects on mexico would be economically crippling and politically destabilizing , leaving the country even less equipped to do anything about illegal immigration . in other words , a us trade weapon was deployed neither to deal with a trade issue , nor as part of a legitimate sanctions regime like that imposed on russia following its illegal annexation of crimea in march 2014 . unlike the usmca – which came least premised on the objective of addressing trade concerns – trump ’s tariff pronunciamento was a bald-faced attempt to force the mexican government to tackle america ’s own immigration problem . on the rare occasions when trade sanctions were being used to cover non-trade concerns , they were a measure of last resort , as was true of south africa , where they succeeded because they had multilateral support . once trade measures are used indiscriminately to advance narrow the scope for non-trade objectives , damaging the entire trading system is done , and they could be immense .
new delhi – according to the united nations population division , the world ’s human population hit seven billion on october 31 . after all , the un forecasts that the world ’s population will soar to 9.3 billion in 2050 , and to surpass ten billion by the end of this century . as always happens whenever we approach such a milestone , this one has produced a spike in spike in conferences , seminars , and learning articles , including habitual dire malthusian predictions . but such projections misrepresent the underlying demographic dynamics . the future we face is not one of too little population growth , but of too little .
the european union applies pressure to all parties , including russia , where it holds out the possibility of lifting economic sanctions as an eventual reward to the kremlin for supporting its peace efforts . in theory , the negotiations are waged between the government in kyiv and the separatist leaders . in exchange , the kremlin has committed to support – but only after a change of constitution , ukraine ’s national government , in its reassertion of control over those regions , as well as over its own border with russia . if , however , russia actually wields ultimate state control over the separatist regions , and is actively integrating them into its economy , as a paper acquired by bild suggests , the kremlin can no longer treat itself as an outside party , attempting to leverage an uncooperative ally . what russia has offered to use what it calls its “ limited influence ” to persuade rebel-controlled rebel governments to cooperate .
nothing reveals the united states ’ decline in the region better than the contrast between america ’s more sober use of power in the first gulf war in 1991 , and the hubris and deceit of today ’s iraq war . in 1991 , america forged its most formidable international coalition since the end of world war ii , waging it in a fully legitimate war aimed at restoring regional balance after saddam hussein ’s invasion of kuwait . in doing so , the us embarked on a preposterous grand strategy that focused no less on simultaneously dismantling iraq ’s tyrannical regime , restructuring the entire middle east , destroying al-qaeda and helping democracy to take root throughout the arab world . the result has been utter failure : a military defeat and severe degradation of america ’s moral standing . in 2003 , america went to war without its trans-atlantic allies after manipulating false assertions .
one of the more strangest claims made in social insurance debates now roiling the world ’s richest countries is the fact that government-sponsored defined-benefit pension programs ( for example , america ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s social-safety system ) are outmoded . such programs were put to a good cause , the argument goes , for the industrialized economies of the great depression and the post-world war ii decades ; but they have become obsolete in today ’s high-tech , networked , post-industrial economics . the value of these accounts would fluctuate more easily than resting on a defined-benefit scheme that ensures a fixed true supply of resources at the expense of retirement . advocates of this argument propose a very different kind of model . just as corporations today have a much happier supporting workers ’ retirement by contributing to their employees ’ private-sector bilaterally , so governments today should offer ( or require ) contributions to privately owned accounts .
indeed , greece ’s current plight , including a massive run-up in the debt-to-gdp ratio , is mostly the fault of the misguided troika program foisted on it . so it is not really debt restructuring , but its absence that is “ immoral . ” does anyone in their right mind think that any country would voluntarily put itself through what greece has gone it , simply as a matter of letting a free ride out its creditors ? if there is a moral hazard , it is on the side of the lenders , in particular the private sector , that bailed out repeatedly . if europe allowed those debts to move from the private sector to the public sector – a well-established pattern over the last half-century – it is europe , not greece , that should be bearing the consequences .
if europe , china , and other us trade partners were to retaliate in response to trump ’s tariffs , they would simply slash their own earnings from trade , without reaping some of the advantages of protectionism . in fact , neither scenario makes a lot of sense , either . europe and china have little interest in depressing world prices for their imports , or in the resulting revenues . while some european countries suffer from their high levels of unemployment , there is nothing that protectionism can do for these expansionary fiscal or monetary policies ( the latter by the european central bank ) can do better . employment considerations are by no means a major issue ; either . european and china have little interest in depressing world prices for their imports , or in the resulting revenues .
that is the view shared by many people in syria , even among insurgents . it is the view shared by the majority of people in europe , even among the rebels . it is the view of the majority of people in europe , too . saving obama ’s honor hardly seems worthwhile for this risk . perhaps it is even an expression of obama himself , which is playing for time , desperate to roll over approval of the attacks on syria to the american congress .
an old person , with its long beard watches over the us , and most of us retain a pretty literal view of the stories of his son told us in the bible ’s new testament . it is this god , from atheists like dawkins and hitchens to the attack . and , with such a target , it is not very difficult to poke holes and pile to ridicule . but we tend to maintain into adulthood of the same views about god that we formed in our childhood . leave aside that one ’s ability to make an even stronger case against godlessness – to remember the atrocities of atheist totalitarians in the twentieth century and to consider a assault on those whose commitment to literal interpretations of religious texts means that they deny the science and reason .
their preferred model calls for the un to grant financing and , to a lesser degree , to support the mission , while allowing the au to retain its leadership role . but the un has found it harder to attract sufficient volunteers for such a force , as foreign governments have acceded to sudanese demands that the hybrid force remains predominantly african . au commanders on the ground would retain tactical control ; a joint au-un command would exercise operational supervision ; and the un would set the force ’s overall strategic objectives . but many western governments , however , refuse to hold their forces under au command because of its perceived vulnerabilities , and have conditioned additional support for the peacekeeping operations in darfur at the un ’s assuming control . at the same time , the complex command chain envisaged for the au-un force recalls some of the worst features of nato-un operations in the former yugoslavia during the 1990 ’s .
new york – there has been a striking similarity between european central bank president mario draghi ’s declaration in the aftermath of the recent ecb governing council meeting and us federal reserve chair janet yellen ’s recent testimony to the us congress : both have asserted that their policy decisions account for only domestic conditions . in other words , emerging-market countries , though subject to significant spillover effects from advanced economies ’ monetary policies , have been on their own . this confirms what the emerging-country authorities have known for a while . after all , advanced economies ’ policies drove large and volatile capital inflows to major emerging markets , pushing their exchange rates and damaging their export competitiveness – a phenomenon that brazilian president dilma rousseff hailed as the “ capital tsunami . ” in 2010 , following the fed ’s announcement of a third round of quantitative easing ( qe ) , brazilian finance minister guido mantega accused advanced countries of waging a global “ currency war . ”
some deride the kingdom , the richest arab state , for taking action against the poorest . these are simplistic claims , reflecting a fundamental misunderstanding of the kingdom ’s role in yemen and , indeed , across the arab world . saudi arabia is not out for now to let the meeting begin . riyadh – saudi arabia lately has drawn plenty of criticism – for its beleaguered role in the war against the houthi rebels in yemen . others have asserted that the struggle for the houthis – the pdp shia-led religious-political movement – is just one element in the broader shia war that saudi arabia has supposedly been waging .
most fundamentally , what does china represent in terms of its values and ideas ? in dismissing the answer to that question , china ’s overly assertive policies have proved a diplomatic boon for america in strengthening and expanding america ’s security arrangements in asia . south korea has tightened its military alliances with the us ; japan backed off from a move to pull its marine airbase out of okinawa ; and india , vietnam , indonesia , and the philippines , among others , have drawn closer ties with the us . china has shown itself adept at assertively promoting its own national interests and playing classical balance-of-power geopolitics . but , to trump and assume the mantle of leadership in asia , china must do more than it pursues its own interests or contain would-be rivals .
and , while women ’s employment rates have fallen as women ’s left minimum-wage jobs , wages , particularly for store clerks , have risen sharply . in fact , lithuania introduced a less generous version of the family 500 + in 2018 . rather than borrow to pay for the expensive “ schoolsets ” students to purchase them , poles have taken advantage of their 500 + contribution to the eu . given the program ’s dramatic success , other countries are following suit . those concerned about democracy in poland , hungary , and elsewhere in europe and beyond should acknowledge that a large number of voters are buying into the nationalist right ’s vision of a social-welfare state that advances national priorities , cares for the poor , and supports families .
it thus comes as little surprise that a lack of peace among israelis and palestinians still exists , notwithstanding countless diplomatic enterprises by the united states , the european union , and its members , the un , and the parties themselves . to be fair , resolution 242 can not be blamed for this state of affairs . peace comes only when a conflict becomes ripe for resolution that happens when the leaders of the principal protagonists are both willing and able to embrace compromise . to be fair , resolution 242 can not be blamed for this state of affairs . different people can see it as to mean different things , and we all know .
the baku-tbilisi-ceyhan oil pipeline – which will bypass russia as it ends – can not re-define the country ’s economic strategy to the degree that shevardnadze had sought . instead , georgia ’s prolonged economic success will depend on its exports to the russian market : neither georgian wine nor georgian fruit takes place in the united states or italy . shevardnadze ’s emphasis on the btc pipeline also reflects georgia ’s pro-western strategic orientation . that , too , is unlikely to change under saakashvili . on the other hand , this should become less a burden on the bilateral relationship as russia itself moves closer to nato , the us and the european union .
europe is not a monolith ; in many areas , it can still act coherently , even without full agreement . none of this , of course , means that a international intervention in libya will succeed ; the situation in libya is far too complicated to predict the outcome . but the lesson of the libyan intervention is that division may be overcome if it does exist . what that does mean , however , is that europe finds a way to work when it gets on its foreign policy . whether an outlier is germany or another eu member state , division needs no fatal end .
likewise , life expectancy at birth in ssa countries lagged for 16 years behind the developing-country average , more than 14 years behind those in south asia and 21 years behind countries in east asia , latin america , and the caribbean . until the late 1800 ’s , most of africa was ingested and occupied by hunter-gatherers and practitioners of subsistence agriculture . around the world , what accounts for this broad-based underdevelopment ? until the late 1800 ’s , most of africa was unexplored and occupied by hunter-gatherers and practitioners of subsistence agriculture . land was relatively plentiful and allocated by tribal chiefs without regard for western-style property rights . in combined , gross enrolment in primary , secondary , and higher education , the ssa countries stood at 19 % below the 1990 ’s average average for the developing world , a record 11 % below that of south asian countries , 29 % below that of south asian countries , 29 % below that of east asia and the pacific .
geneva – the recent sharp spike in food prices and growing concerns about food security have sparked anxieties worldwide . and , given that the world ’s poorest people spend a higher share of their income on food , they are among the worst affected , raising the risk that years of progress on poverty reduction might reverse . the seemingly unalterable factors generating such record-setting skyrocketing food prices , a shift to higher-protein diets in many countries , increasing populations , more use of biofuels , and climate change , indicates that elevated food prices here are here to stay . in the absence of solutions that ease the strain on supplies , hunger and malnutrition will intensify . the possibility of getting food to the table fills parents with a deep sense of foreboding .
as francis fukuyama pointed out , developing an able state that is accountable and ruled by the rule of law is one of human civilization ’s crowning achievements . and this is what the anti-corruption agenda often ends up stimulating : the emergence of a capable state that is accountable and wielded by the rule of law is one of human civilization ’s crowning achievements . this is no easy task when societies are deeply divided by ethnicity , religion , or social status . it entails creating a shared sense of “ us , ” ” an imagined community on whose behalf the state act . as harvard ’s lant pritchett , michael woolcock , and andrews argue when inept organizations adopt “ best practices ” ” like the financial governance system and procurement regulation , they become too distracted by decision-distorting protocols to do whatever is established to make them happen .
with the syrian conflict raging next door , however , erdoğan ’s claims are far from compelling . with the syrian conflict raging next door , however , erdoğan ’s claims are far from compelling . for his part , turkey is rife with a refugee crisis that dwarfs the one confronting europe ; the proliferation of terrorist attacks on its territory ; and heightened tensions with the kremlin , following its downing of a russian warplane near its border with syria in november . by 2014 , trespassing around the presidential palace , and surrounding himself , he meant evoke ottoman splendor , a fairly transparent effort , to compensate for his inability to shape regional developments on the grounds of his – much less that of his country ’s – interests . this approach mirrors the fact that russian president vladimir putin , who uses the sumptuous trappings and immense resources of his office to claim credit to restore his country ’s national pride , particularly when attempting to persuade ordinary russians to make economic sacrifices .
president clinton ’s trip to africa highlighted to americans -- usually most neglectful of africa except when a deep crisis -- the dramatic changes underway on the continent . and at this year ’s world economic forum summit in south africa , almost 900 leading businessmen in the u.s. , europe , asia , and sierra leone met with the new political leadership to chart a way forward . of course , intentions and results are two separate issues , and they are a different matter everywhere . africa has a long road ahead ; it does not get it done . it is on most measures , a few decades , if not a century or more , behind advanced economies in economic organizations and income levels .
in the last hundred years , the contests of nationalism ( with god on both sides of it ) have almost annihilated europe , and the cold war may have done just that . the moment you believe “ better dead than red ” you are in trouble . dying to save your home , family , or country may be rational all at the same time . yet martyrdom is different and dangerous , there is different and dangerous . as the romanian philosopher e. m. cioran puts it : “ once man loses the faculty of indifference he becomes a potential murderer ; once he transforms his idea into the consequences , is incalculable . ”
russia is in no position to create an alternative international system ; but if putin continues to pursue an outdated and antagonistic foreign policy , it can undermine the incumbent . if putin is serious about diversifying and strengthening russia ’s commodities-based economy , thereby improving his country ’s lives , he must attract advanced technologies and foreign investment , particularly in the west . for that , he must pursue democratic reform , institutional regeneration , and renewed diplomatic ties with the west . that , in a nutshell , was the soviet model that failed once and will fail again . that , in a nutshell , was the soviet model that failed once again and will fail again .
cambridge – will labour unions ’ political resurgence be throwing a wrench at the wheels of globalization ? or will their growing strength serve to make globalization more sustainable by fostering great equality and fairness ? trade unions ’ rising influence is apparent in many recent events : german chancellor angela merkel ’s controversial deal to raise minimum wages for postal employees ; several american presidential candidates ’ open misgivings about trade and immigration ; and the chinese leadership ’s nascent concerns about labor standards . alongside their political clout , trade unions ’ intellectual respectability is also experiencing a renaissance . one way or another , the unions stand , like the leading wildcard , for the evolution of the us economic system in 2008 and beyond .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime ; but it does not all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world .
still , ambitious plans to boost its hydro-generating capacity significantly by damming its international rivers have embroiled the country in a water dispute with most neighbors , even with north korea . more broadly , china ’s dam-building passion has stoked two key developments . first , chinese firms are now dominating the global hydropower-equipment export market . second , state-run hydropower industry ’s rising clout within china has led the government to campaign aggressively for overseas dam projects by offering low-interest loans to other governments . sinohydro alone , having eclipsed western machinery like abb , alstom , general electric , and siemens , claims to control half the market .
new york – there are many recurring debates in american foreign policy , for example , about isolationism versus internationalism and unilateralism versus multilateralism . others regarded this as being too dangerous in an era defined by nuclear weapons , and america ’s opted for a policy of containment , worked to limit the reach of soviet power and influence . this debate between the realists ” and “ idealists ” is intense and long-standing . but no amount of debate is more persistent than that between those who believe that america ’s foreign-policy ’s principal purpose should be to influence other states ’ externalities and those that hold that it should shape their domestic nature . throughout the cold war , there were those who argued that the united states should attempt to “ roll back ” the soviet union , overthrow the communist system , and replace it with democratic capitalism .
if britain ’s transition payments continued near its current level of € 10 billion over the five or six years realistically required for negotiating a permanent trading relationship , they would add to the same sum . second , a british budget offer would be a powerful tool in creating the eu ’s “ deep and special partnership ” with europe , which may claims is her ultimate aim . but , in her florence speech , may has promised british firms something close to the eu ’s current level of access to eu markets . until last month , may avoided defining this phrase , for fear of antagonizing her party ’s hardline europhobes . she has also recognized that any privileged access to eu markets would require eu budget contributions , as has happened in norway and switzerland .
the eu-canada comprehensive economic and trade agreement ( ttip ) , for example , took seven years to hash out , and was nearly scotched by belgium ’s parliament ’s wallonia region . many of the 52 % of britons who voted to leave want to remain in the single market , just as do all of those voting to remain . even if may can strike the exit deal , ratifying the sector-by-sector trade agreement in the next two years is impossible . there can not be a gradual implementation ” ” of a trade deal that has not been finalized , so uk-based auto companies , financial institutions , and other firms that are exporting to the eu now should start preparing for the “ cliff edge ” that might want to avoid . all told , may has no electoral mandate to pursue a tough brexit .
the israeli-palestinian issue is crucial for all of the obvious reasons . for the first time , there is a lively and smart debate about this issue at the heart of the middle east ’s problems . a functioning private sector that creates adequate jobs , and schools that educate today ’s large , youthful populations for today ’s inter-connected world , is prerequisites of progress . that in fact is both enormously important and healthy . there is a lively and smart debate around that matter at the heart of the middle east ’s problems .
in his many successful years as sibiu mayor , iohannis distinguishes himself from the charismatic and shrewd politicians of whom the romanians are accustomed , proving to be a more sobering , laconic , and pragmatic administrator . the vigorous religious assaults mounted against him during the campaign highlighted the salience of the establishment – even though the orthodox leaders who backed ponta quickly adjusted their rhetoric to foster tolerance and cooperation . yet iohannis different not only from his political approach ; he is a evangelical lutheran in a largely orthodox country . in his many successful years as mayor of sibiu , iohannis distinguishes himself from the charismatic and shrewd politicians for whom the romanians are accustomed , proving to be a sobering , laconic , and pragmatic administrator . this demeanor is part of what has made it so difficult to predict its victory over the more talkative ponta .
some of it can be learned or trim , and classes that teach positive mental habits – like appreciating things that matter or avoiding dwelling on setbacks – have documented measurable improvements in wellbeing . the dalai lama recently helped to launch a series of such courses in london , developed through happiness action , an organization that i helped find . every country , too , can try to increase its happiness , which is within reach for the world . british prime minister david cameron has introduced the measurement of happiness in national statistics , and more recently german chancellor angela merkel has launched a program aimed at encouraging citizen well-being . in the process , how countries are governed has a huge impact on happiness .
more recently , there has been america ’s event-driven shift toward collaboration with russia on ending syria ’s civil war , following a chemical-weapons attack that left at least 1,400 people dead . the new world order has given ordained way to a order-less world in which reliability and predictability gave way to rapid shift in targeting and fickle commitments . israel is but a small part of that global pattern . all of this raises the crucial question : does america even need an overarching design for its foreign policy ? if the result is to force its foreign policy to be less reliable and predictable , or , worse , susceptible to a misunderstanding , then it certainly does n’t .
the financial services act of 1986 put an end to the pure self-regulation regime in the first place . financial interests opposed it vigorously at the time , viewing it as the thin end of a perilous wedge , even though they could have failed to announce just how thick that a wedge would ultimately turn into . the most dangerous trends , including the upsurge of global imbalances and the economy ’s dramatic financialization , have accelerated dangerously out of 2004 onwards . the most dangerous trends , including the upsurge of global imbalances and the economy ’s dramatic financialization , have accelerated dangerously since the summer of 2004 . thatcher herself was no credit enthusiast , once famously said , “ i do n’t believe in credit card building . ”
indeed , iranian hardliners may welcome an israeli strike and even seek to provoke it , as a means to rallying the iranian populace behind them . there is a better way to prevent nuclear proliferation and other weapons of mass destruction in the region : a “ wmd-free zone , ” ” ” ” ” building on the incentive-based regime , which includes economic and technical support for countries that join , along with security guarantees from the united nations security council ’s permanent members . netanyahu should also enforce economic and political sanctions against states that decide to remain aloof and , again , supported by the security council ’s permanent members , impose military sanctions on those seeking to develop wmds . alas , given us president barack obama ’s lamentable handling of the crisis in syria , israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu may well conclude that he has no option but to go it alone . at the same time , a unilateral military strike would carry dire consequences , not only for the first time .
cambridge – more than 130,000 people are said to have died in syria ’s civil war . united nations reports of atrocities , internet images of assaults on civilians , and accounts for the suffering of refugees rend our hearts . but about what should be done , and by whom ? more recently , the canadian scholar-politician michael ignatieff has urged us president barack obama to impose a no-fly zone over syria , despite the near-certainty that russia will veto the united nations security council resolution required to legalize such a move . in ignatieff ’s view , if syrian president bashar al-assad is allowed to prevail , his forces will obliterate the remaining sunni rebels – at least for now ; with dismissal , blood finally flowing again .
now that the regional situation in raucous is coming to an end to the raucous america ’s election season ( where none of that matter is excluded from the political arena ) , the task of assembling those components will be even more difficult . now that the regional situation in raucous is being joined to the raucous america ’s election season ( where none of this matters to be excluded from the political arena ) , the task of merging those components will be even more difficult . for americans ( and others ) , who believe that the arab world thinks of nothing but the palestinian cause , events this spring in north africa , the arabian peninsula , and even the levant should have been convinced otherwise . the new arab leaders will fight mightily with the public ’s rising expectations , and their willingness to put behind a peace process will take a backseat to this struggle . it is far too early to judge the historic effect of the arab spring , but , if there is one conclusion that can be drawn on this point today , it is that israel and its palestinian neighbors have little
london – vulnerable communities face the brunt of climate change – from rising sea levels and extreme weather events to protracted severe drought and flooding . in emerging economies , small and medium-size enterprises account for as much as 45 % of employment and up to 33 % of gdp , and these numbers are markedly higher when informal smes are included . according to the world bank , without effective mitigation measures , more than 100 million people could be pushed into extreme poverty by 2030 . in order to help the most vulnerable communities become more resilient to the effects of climate change , financial institutions should encourage small , medium-size enterprises ( smes ) . when an sme builds its own climate resilience , it can cascading effects in communities around it .
indeed , professor claudia kemfert of the german institute for economic research ( diw ) argues that spending $ 14 billion to $ 30 billion to cut methane would generate benefits , from cutting warming – between $ 1.4 and three times higher . we could also put a larger focus on black carbon reductions , considered to be responsible for as much as 40 % of current net global warming and one-third of arctic melting . agricultural output accounts for half of anthropogenic methane , but land-systems , landfills , and coal mining also generate more gas . cutting methane is , indeed , cheaper than cutting carbon – that is , to any extent . and , because methane is a much congested gas than co2 , we can prevent some of the worst of the world ’s short-term warming through its mitigation system .
in 1989 , large numbers of chinese students took over tiananmen square to demand more rights , adopting a symbol resembling a sculpture of liberty . china ’s challenge , however , may be more difficult . it has never had to deal with others as equals , in contrast to the traditional european powers that have done so for centuries . it not only needs to live with the realities of american power ; it must also take note of america ’s ideal . today , too , it is not america ’s military strength that threatens or challenges china , but rather the enduring attraction of the “ american dream . ”
but , collectively , eu member states – even without the united kingdom – would constitute a power of a similar size . by bolstering their strategic sovereignty , therefore , europe could make such a g3 world a reality . yet european leaders tempted by the prospect of a g3 world must address two related concerns . first , it is unclear how the eu will reach out to the necessary level of integration when most important decisions within the bloc still require unanimity among member states . a stronger and more reunified europe , the argument goes , could then compete with the us and china on most domains simultaneously , including through the extent of weaponizing ” its economic resources to further its geostrategic objectives .
after all , this is how the us administration handled canada and mexico . whereas the us has , on average , fewer tariff protections than europe , the difference is a minor one ( europe ’s unweighted tariff averages 5.2 % versus versus 3.5 % for the us ) . both countries are maintaining relatively open economies with stronger protections in specific sectors . trump has temporarily exempted the two countries from tariffs , but now expects concessions from them in his administration to renegotiate the north american free trade agreement . regulatory divergences constitute a far more important constraint on us-european trade than tariffs .
do n’t i , on the other hand , continue to “ own ” it ? do n’t i , for example , have the rights to control my own body ? we do n’t need to believe in genetic determinism to find that compelling . how can a commercial firm not only deny me the right to know my own genetic profile unless i pay their diagnostic test fee , which might be fair enough ; but it is also preventing any other us firm from offering me a similar test , provided that those firms pay it a license fee ? proprietary rights for commercial firms over the most basic element of any individual ’s genetic identity should not be enforceable .
for this reason , the global alliance ’s international secretariat against traffic in women has applauded amnesty international for supporting decriminalization . humans are no exception in this respect ; indeed , they are the largest and most pervasive of all desires . instead , they have argued , we should “ end the request for paid sex ” for all , but without ever explaining how to do so . there has also been opposition from some feminist organizations accusing amnesty for protecting “ the rights of pimps ” and johns . for that reason , the global alliance ’s secretariat against traffic in women has applauded amnesty international for supporting decriminalization .
propelled by demand and outsourcing from the advanced economies , emerging markets have won a growing share of soaring trade in goods ; by 2014 , they accounted for more than half of all global trade flows . since the great recession , however , the growth of global merchandise trade has stalled , owing largely to anemic demand in the world ’s major economies and plummeting commodity prices . and yet deeper structural shifts play a role as well . for a wide range of goods , automation means that production locations and outsourcing choices no longer depend primarily on labor costs . in particular , many companies are simplifying and shoring up their supply chains .
in fact , former us secretary of state condoleezza rice explicitly linked russia ’s actions in ukraine with “ talking about withdrawal from afghanistan , whether the security situation warrants it or does not . ” according to rice , anything less than a residual force of 10,000 american troops will send the message that the us is not serious about helping to stabilize afghanistan – a message that would embolden russian president vladimir putin to do otherwise . what it does seem to recognize , however , is that america ’s deteriorating ties with russia , a key conduit to america ’s own military supplies to afghanistan , could well undercut its basing strategy . clearly , the us believes that a continued military presence in afghanistan is in its own interests . nonetheless , there is strong bipartisan support within the us for retaining america ’s military bases in afghanistan , as a means of projecting hard power , and increasingly charged confrontation between america and russia over ukraine has boosted that support considerably .
in a sign of what must come , poland ’s foreign minister , witold waszczykowski , told a tabloid superekspres after a summit that the eu pursued a policy of double standards and deceptions . such infantile ploys became all too characteristic of the pis government , which , too , refused to publicize polish constitutional tribunal rulings , as if that made it legally nonexistent . according to waszczykowski , poland not only had to drastically cut [ its own level of trust in the eu ; ” it had to start pursuing a negative policy , ” ” by blocking other initiatives , or playing an very aggressive game . in fact , polish prime minister beata szydło had already launched that strategy , by refusing to sign off on a summit ’s official record , as if that would render the outcome inconsequential for poland . undeniably , the government has paralyzed the court , thereby undermining the rule of law in poland .
indeed , there is excellent potential for low-cost solar power , zero-emitting technologies , and safe and reliable nuclear power . we tap that solar power in many fundamental ways – food production , wind power , wind power , hydroelectric power , solar heat , solar-thermal electricity , solar panels , but the possibilities for vastly increased underutilization , widely available , widely available , and environmentally friendly solar power – are enormous . doing so will require massive investments in new technologies and resources , not a “ fight to last ” to date over middle eastern oil . important energy technologies will include the conversion of coal to unwind liquids ( like gasoline ) , use of tar sands and shale oil , and growth of nonfossil-fuel energy sources . solar radiation equals roughly 10,000 times our current use of energy for energy .
asia ’s resurgence began with japan ’s economic success . in the 1950 ’s , asia conjured up images of poverty and starvation . there was a cursory political infatuation among some westerners in the 1960s with nehru ’s jackets and maoist revolution ; but it was short-lived . as john lennon acknowledged in 1968 , “ if you follow through on pictures of chairman mao , you can make it with anyone anyhow . ” by the end of that century , japan had spectacular performance not only to the japanese wealthy , but also to boost the country ’s soft power .
likewise , to lay the foundations for future economic growth , the eu should nurture new , sustainable industries , and innovative small and medium-size companies , not cutting funding for crucial research programs like the 2020 world . but , with trump-driven austerity and eu countries seeking to stimulate spending , the council should also consider the shape of the budget , to ensure that the mff does not impede future growth and investment . for example , the proposed budget slashes funding for cross-border infrastructure projects , including expanding high-speed broadband networks to rural areas and the development of transportation and energy infrastructure . europeans would profit directly through improved internet access , lower energy costs , and more efficient transportation links . but the eu can add significant value by coordinating transnational infrastructure projects , thereby achieving economies of scale and avoiding the duplicity of national spending .
new york – in 1997 , denmark , a nation whose people are demonstrably committed to human rights , asked the united nations human rights commission in geneva to watch in the ccp ’s long track record of abuse . with its collapse , china responded by canceling the danish trade mission . france got the message , and the french soon stopped promoting human-rights resolutions directed at china . in the wake of the sichuan earthquake , criticism of china will be even more muted . in the wake of the sichuan earthquake , criticism of china will be even more muted .
it encompasses research initiatives and global public goods like vaccines and emergency-preparedness programs for epidemic outbreaks . the global agenda in the us determines the norms and norms that shape how public and private actors promote health , prevent the disease , and administer care . and it brings people together to work toward delivering universal health coverage and ensuring everyone ’s right to health for all . at the sdg framework , separate gender-and health-related issues are intertwined , because gender itself is a major driver of health outcomes . gender can influence whether one smokes tobacco , exercises on a regular basis , or has access to nutritious food .
still , only the presence of a female plurality does the impact . in other words , women bring a fresh perspective , heard clearly only when a critical mass is present in any institution . in fact , consider a woman ’s perspective on a conflict with a conflict about her future . for example , studies by the us courts of the multicourt of justice have shown that male judges are more willing to hear bias cases when one woman is on the bench and significantly more willing when a second wife is added . “ every of us , from ” sandra day o’connor , the first female member of the american supreme court , who is renowned for not wanting to be perceived as a “ female ” righteousness brings to our work , whatever that is , our lifetime of experience and our values . in other words , women bring a fresh perspective , clearly only when a critical mass is present in any institution .
but choosing an action for the greater good does not absolve us from moral culpability . after all , an adviser to authoritarian leaders can not escape the dilemma . the philosopher michael walzer puts it well : it is easy to get one ’s hands dirty in politics . he immediately adds , but this getting one ’s hands dirty in such a way is “ “ often the right thing to do . ” our hand gets dirty when we help a terrorist or a dictator , and you can not .
with the new wahhabi madrasas popping up everywhere in yemen because of saudi financial support , it is small wonder that the number of yemeni jihadis has grown exponentially . yet in 1991 , it was 800,000 yemenis that they are perceived as a domestic security threat in the run-up to the first gulf war . since then , yemeni labor has been cut off from saudi arabia . but yemen , too , is engaged in its own destructive policies . both embittered and the unemployed , young yemeni men often become subject to another saudi policy gone awry , its propagation of islam ’s sunni wahhabi form of islam .
independently , honjo and their colleagues identified another protein that performed a similar function . these fundamental studies have now led to the development of new and powerful immunotherapies that are efficiently against cancer . in order for some cancers , immunotherapy has been revolutionary , enabling those on the verge of death to live healthy lives with no detectable traces of illness . yet the immunotherapy revolution still has much to do with its infancy . yet we still have much to learn to learn , and we still do not need to learn , what works .
but it has followed this approach on the macro level , and for problems elsewhere in the economy do not examine it . the only way to do that is by adjusting to new environmental pressures , and now by silicon valley , owing in large part to its own behavior , faces plenty . the good news is that , if any place has proved that it can innovate , it is silicon valley . silicon valley ’s citizens need to start applying their skill in innovation – and giving pride in “ breaking things ” – to themselves . unless it changes , it will be overtaken , too .
establishing a structured , well-functioning goat market helps create a positive feedback loop . recognizing the benefits of such practices , farmers immediately started increasing crop density , applying dung , and rotating crops to increase yields , producing more feed for healthier goats . here , too , an innovation platform helps . for starters , we have trained farmers how to refine their soil by expanding legume crops , residues for which can take advantage of as goat fodder . if farmers are confident that their goats can not be stolen , and can sell them at decent prices , they are better able to invest in better their output system .
with fears of increased inequality already on the rise , governments will need to rethink policies for delivering income and job-transition support to displaced workers . in the early nineteenth century , wages stagnated for almost 50 years , before they were wiped out again . that may have been an extreme situation ; in many cases , it is now up to now . yet , for lower-skilled workers , the transition now underway today could prove just as wrenching . looking ahead , policymakers and businesses should maintain five imperatives in mind .
at the 2016 au summit in kigali , african leaders recognized that , despite the au ’s achievements , it remained under-resourced and inefficient , operating below potential and failure to implement many decisions . less than three years later , a set of reform recommendations , produced by the kagame and the pan-african committee of experts that he nominated , through an inclusive consultative process , involving african leaders and other stakeholders , are taking place . to reinvigorate the au , they have tasked rwandan president paul kagame with leading a process in which all have been deeply involved . this is largely a matter of mindset , not of the fix . fortunately , the mindsets are starting to shift .
suppose ilan goldfajn , brazil ’s star central banker , issues a bond in new york , and uses the dollar ’s proceeds to enlarge the country ’s international reserves . at best , market participants will applaud the decision ; at worst , they will be indifferent , because brazil ’s net debt position will not have changed . now suppose one of argentina ’s private agricultural exporters also issues an international bond , and uses the dollars to enlarge one of its modern , highly competitive dairy plants to sell more powdered milk to asia . more fundamentally , why do we think of reserves differently than we think about other assets on our national balance sheets ? both countries have floating exchange rates , which means that their central banks are reluctant to intervene in the currency market by buying and selling excess reserves .
while other countries are embracing robust digital strategies , america is falling behind . in india , for example , prime minister narendra modi ’s government is implementing a strategy to transform india into a tech powerhouse , setting the stage for a digital future . in france , the government has invested with an extensive national digital plan that is expected to generate 1.1 million jobs over the next 3-5 years , and contributed $ 101 billion to gdp over the next decade . the consequences are already starting to show : according to the 2016 bloomberg innovation index , the us currently ranks the world ’s eighth most innovative country , its eighth most innovative country , has dropped its twin spots ever since its launch in 2015 . while other countries are also embracing robust digital strategies , america is falling behind .
beyond financing constraints , female leaders face high social and cultural barriers to political participation . in georgia , for example , party political parties that comprise at least 30 % of each gender on their own electoral lists receive a 30 % supplement from state budgets . likewise , in ireland , the country ’s main political parties are losing 50 % of their state funding if their candidate pool includes less than 30 % of either gender . above all , greater care responsibilities , reinforced by public perceptions about a female role , ” severely undermine women ’s ability to run for public office . fortunately , some countries are establishing innovative measures to address this problem .
by all accounts , iran is a society deeply divided among those who want their country to be a respected member of the international community , and those for whom iran ’s international standing has better served through its nuclear-weapons program . that might well be true if iran were a full-fledged democracy , genuinely accountable for the will of the people . a us-imposed international sanctions against iran would appear to support the latter , much less the former . but there is scant evidence to suggest that the sanctions did anything to slow iran ’s nuclear program in slow motion . moreover , as is often the case , sanctions may have done more to decimate the middle class , further weakening the least powerful than to motivate iran ’s leaders to seek an agreement .
one hopes that the paris agreement will change this . the bec ’s argument – that the “ new model will constitute public-private partnerships between governments , research institutions , and investors ” – shines a welcome spotlight on the relationship . because we are not yet aware of which innovations will be the most important in decarbonizing the economy , investment will need to be allocated on a broad array of choices . in the long run , patient finance must be made affordable to help companies minimize uncertainty and bridge the so-called “ death valley ” between basic research and commercialization . as with the information technology revolution , clean energy advances will require the involvement of both the public and the private sector .
but these challenges will not be tackled , and opportunities will not be realized unless children everywhere have the skills they need . for these reasons , my country , senegal , has long been committed to giving its children – particularly girls and those from disadvantaged backgrounds – a quality education . with the goal of working in 2017 , we invested 25 % of our gdp – representing close to 7 % of gdp – in educating our children and young people . furthermore , the us is planning to provide up to 90 % of the financing for a new program to improve senegal ’s education system from now to 2030 . even so , senegal struggles to meet all the costs of its education system .
europe ’s defense industry will not be able to make progress without a well-functioning market , open , transparent , and with an equal opportunity for all european suppliers . a critical component in the coordination , and properly functioning of european security and defense policy , is a european defense agency . as eu member states advance this path , propelled forward by technological and operational excellence and innovation , they will find avenues to eliminate wasteful spending and optimize resource use . advances in the defense industry bring considerable positive externalities , such as civil-military synergies and investment in research and development that are fundamental to growth , innovation , and future competitiveness . the stated goal must be to advance european security integration ( in its broadest sense ) , lifting europe to the forefront of global security .
for example , china banned the shark-fin of soup , the traditional delicacy – at its official government-run dinners and functions – a move that contributed to a 30 % drop in shark-fin sales between last december and april . a study by the australian marine institute of state found that palau ’s shark-diving industry is worth far more than its shark-diving industry . it should not be hard to spur countries to take action to protect their shark populations , given that shark economic value plummets when they gets killed . in guangzhou ’s southern district , the center for china ’s shark-fin trade , vendors reported a 82 % decline in sales over the last two years . a single reef shark that frequents major wave sites in palau is worth roughly $ 179,000 annually , or $ 1.9 million above its lifetime ; the same shark would be worth roughly $ 108 dead .
tudjman 's pretext was that croatia needed to concentrate power for its struggles against serbian aggression . the truth is that he used the negotiated hostility with slobodan milosevic to solidify personal rule and a russian-style plunder on state characteristics by his coterie of loyalists . yet , despite hostility between serbia and croatia , dealing a dictator with milosevic was straightforward . because both tudjman and milosevic believed in ethnically homogeneous states , they fomented enforced populist transfers ( ie , ethnic cleansing ) and division of territory among one another . to accomplish this with the minimal of fuss he muzzled the world press and electronic media .
under the basel law , the current election committee should be “ broadly representative ” – the provision by which the committee ’s present composition violates . its membership amounts to choosing only 7 % of hong kong ’s overall electorate , and its voting procedures seek to block the nomination of any candidates who can harbor democratic sympathies . the current proposed arrangements would allow the chinese government to veto any candidate that it has dislikes , spurring criticism that what ’s on offer is an iranian-style election : “ you can vote for anyone the us choosing . ” hong kong ’s government could have invited changes to increase the level of openness and fairness by choosing the chief executive , without abandoning its current method in favor of universal suffrage . since 1997 , 55-61 % of the electorate has voted for democratic candidates in the legislative council elections this november .
in promoting democracy , liberals deny the argument used by today ’s rulers that first-free elections would last , because islamists would win back and establish theocratic regimes . but , in the gaza strip , local elections soon afterward , the radical islamists who use terrorism won seven of the ten municipal councils . the reformers insist that the overwhelming majority support moderate solutions , or at least that radical islamist groups would have to become pragmatic to compete for power and govern . january ’s palestinian elections were won by a relatively moderate leader , because he was ushered in by the ruling fatah movement and the islamists boycotted the election . that case is not even proved , at least , enough .
increasingly , the industry is implementing approaches that ensured success in other sectors , such as lowering procurement costs and deploying lean principles in manufacturing . this is the global segment meeting an increasing global need . there is little room to doubt that the clean-tech industry can expect plenty of sunny days ahead . a shakeout in the clean-tech industry has been tough ; but it has also been typical of emerging technologies and , through weeding out the weaker players , has made the sector more robust . as clean-tech firms continue on their scale , there will be additional opportunities to improve .
princeton – the economic gloom that envelops the world in 2008 has led many to question whether the apparent prosperity that preceded it was actually real . what we do know is that in countries as diverse as china , india , russia , and the united states , the number of billionaires has skyrocketed . more generally , the top 1 % of the us population prospered . but the gap between the rich and the poor has widened , and , at least in the us , the incomes of the poor and middle class stagnated.ampnbsp ; we should also know that many are now taxpayer-funded schemes to bail out banks , insurance companies , and even the automakers . no wonder that many are now taxpayer-financed schemes to bail out banks , insurance companies , and even the automakers .
their primary targets are to enable us companies and organizations to set sustainability targets and key performance metrics ; monitor , prepare , and publicize comparative data measuring their economic and esg performance ; and integrate sustainable production and consumption practices into company business strategies and models . considering the magnitude of the task , however , it is vital also to ensure effective coordination and harmonization of such efforts with the relevant standard-setters , regulators , and professional organizations . the american securities and exchange commission , for one , is already discussing these topics , as it analyzes opportunities to respond to investor and business needs regarding esg . more recently , mark carney , the governor of the bank of england and the chair of the g20 ’s ’s ’s ’s financial stability board , and michael bloomberg , former new york city mayor and ceo of bloomberg lilp , has issued a announcement on the implications of market data for climate policy . global awareness about the topic is growing .
this month ’s g20 summit and the united nations conference on sustainable development in rio de janeiro are pivotal opportunities to establish a more holistic international approach to global economic recovery and sustainable development . success at los cabos will depend on g-20 leaders ’ capacity to galvanize the same level of collective , concerted action that enabled them to curb the global recession in the aftermath of the 2008 financial crisis . yet the outcomes the world needs – viable financing options and frameworks to support economic transformation , together with integrated environmental and sustainable-development governance , can not be sustained without the political will . the pursuit of a prosperous , inclusive economies must combine efforts to address climate change and achieve universal food security . above all , small landholders need new tools that enable them to raise productivity while setting more sustainable production methods .
new york – global financial markets in 2008 experienced their worst-ever crises since the great depression of the 1930 ’s . global stock markets have fallen more than 50 % ; interest-rate spreads have skyrocketed ; severe liquidity and credit crunch have materialized ; and many emerging-market economies are staggered to the international monetary fund for help . major financial institutions have gone bust ; others have been bought off cheap or survived only after the major bailout . so , which lies ahead in 2009 ? is the worst behind us or near us growth ? is the worst behind us ?
and it takes just a minute on twitter or a cable news to confirm an old adage : “ if it bleeds , it leads . ” add to this the second psychological neuroscientists discussed : because our species has evolved to fend off danger , we tend to be more attuned to bad news . we have responded more acutely to pictures of starving children than to news about improving nutrition levels in africa . and it takes just a minute on twitter or cable news to confirm an old adage : “ if it bleeds , it leads . ” good news is not news ; media executives often mutter .
insightful bloggers attract considerably more clicks than do official mouthpieces . china ’s government apparently began to appreciate the constraints of cover-ups and stonewalling , and perhaps the merits of allowing some room for free speech as well . nowadays , the government no longer monopolizes information and the right to process it . a “ virtual civil society ” is in the making ; the authorities know this . insightful bloggers attract considerably more clicks than do official mouthpieces .
new york – countries often devote public money to promoting exports of their own goods and services . but devoting resources to supporting imports – as china does with its inaugural international import expo , which just opened in shanghai – is truly rare . the annual import expo , which will become part of china ’s overall import promotion strategy , has attracted thousands of companies worldwide , with the promise of large orders from chinese firms , including the state-owned enterprises that the government tasked with providing expo to succeed . if the expo succeeds in boosting imports , one might expect it to lower china ’s trade surplus with the us . but that needs not to be the case , either .
london – the historian norman stone who died in june has always insisted that history students learn foreign language . it is the key to understanding the past and the future of international relations . language gives access to a human culture and culture to its history . knowledge of languages should , therefore , be an essential feature of the technical historian . its history tells us just how it sees itself and the rest of us .
the first nagging question is this : will elections actually take place next january ? the first nagging question is this : will elections really be coming next january ? prime minister hashiyad allawi assures a world that there will be , and president bush is echoing his words . more neutral observers – and , indeed , daily news bulletins on bombings and hostage taking and “ insurgents ” – cast doubt on that prospect . while this scenario is straightforward , reality is not , at least in the west . the probability of iraqi elections next january must be down to less than 50 % , and one can be certain that no or all of these will be free and fair elections across the country .
atlanta – as the united states marks us president donald trump ’s first anniversary in the election , the question of how trump has won still commands attention , with russia ’s role increasingly moving to center stage . each new revelation in investigating russia ’s meddling in the 2016 campaign taps the vulnerability of america ’s democratic process to sharper focus . last week , the us congress unveiled legislation that would compel facebook , google , and other social-media giants to publish who purchases of online advertising , thereby closing the loophole that russia exploited during the election . but making amends through technical fixes and public promises to build better corporate citizens will solve only the most publicized problem . the tougher challenge will be reinforcing institutions that are vital to the functioning of democracy – explicitly , civics education , and local journalism .
in america ’s presidential campaign , trade protection is fashionable again . but , while import restrictions may alleviate the pain of some manufacturing districts , they wo n’t stop companies from relocating where growth opportunities are the strongest at all . nor will they protect their workers from technological change , which is their heart . and they wo n’t recreate yesterday ’s patterns of development . still , should the end become clear , policymakers are often clueless about the means .
when it comes to producing terrorists and undocumented migrants – two critical issues for europe – arab military dictators have an inglorious record . a move by army officers in tripoli against qaddafi and his sons could end the conflict , with their military commanders gaining credit and political capital . yet the four decades of a military-based dictatorship may still be sufficient for libyans , a majority of whom have never really benefited from their country ’s wealth or potential . getting “ stuck in transition ” is the third potential scenario , with libya remaining in a kind of grand gray zone ” – neither fully-fledged democracy nor a dictatorship , but not a semi-free one . algeria in the 1990 ’s is a stark reminder of this , with western governments unwilling to pursue a vicious cycle of repressive autocrats producing violent theocrats and refugees to restart .
when a muslim and a non-muslim face of one another faced in a trial , muslims enjoyed significant benefits . but , of course , if one was involved in the case against a muslim , that was to be handled in an islamic court . second , the court staff was overwhelmingly muslim , meaning that testimony was viewed solely from a muslim perspective . when a muslim and a non-muslim state faced one another in a trial , the people enjoyed significant advantages . first , judges ’ training predisposed them to give the benefit of any doubt to a fellow muslim people .
some suggest that the real point is the risk of attack and the destruction that might occur if weapons of mass destruction are deployed . they employ something like a cost/benefit analysis based on the realm of subjective sense of danger . but there is no way to force a objective assessment of fear ; and even if it could be done , using the cost/benefit analysis to invade another country ’s territory will wreak havoc on the global system of national sovereignty and international law . the better way to make sense of self-defense is to invoke the two principles that underlie legal claims of justification in both domestic and international law . the first principle is reciprocity that implies that , should israel have the right to attack a osirak reactor , then iraq has the right to bomb an israeli nuclear facility at dimona .
and violent conflict remains widespread , with the world ’s poorest regions the most vulnerable to outbreaks . most economies are becoming less equitable , with the widening gaps between the rich and the poor . with these challenges in mind , world leaders agreed at the rio +20 summit last year to adopt sustainable development goals ( sdgs ) . the world ’s governments have asked the un secretary-general to coordinate preparations for these goals by the year 2015 to ensure a seamless transition from the un ’s millennium development goals ( mdgs ) , which expire later this year . a crucial meeting of the un general assembly will take place in late september for this purpose .
an argentine , jordanian , malaysian , or spaniard who can visualize and generate thriving global demand for a product or service , just like spain ’s amancio ortega did with zara ’s , is just as an entrepreneur as the next bill gates . from lahore to lagos , mexico city to mumbai , governments are researching their own populations as pools of talent waiting to be tapped . it ’s time for diplomats to do the same . they should be supporting and encouraging job creators and troubling solvers , and turning development assistance into investment . today , they employs roughly 182,000 people worldwide , more than facebook , google , and apple combined .
the political developments in slovakia during the last 20 years of communism set the czech republic and slovakia apart from both poland and hungary . while both the polish and hungarian communist parties experienced internal liberalization that enabled the relatively large semi-formal zones of activity outside communist control , slovakia , after the soviet-led invasion of 1968 , became a rigid neo-stalinist regime . when former communist regimes collapsed in 1989 , poland ’s communist parties and hungary transformed themselves into credible , democratic-left parties , which became formidable opponents of the newly emerging political right . while both the polish and hungarian communist parties experienced internal liberalization , which enabled relatively large semi-official zones of activity outside communist control , slovakia , after the soviet-led invasion of 1968 , became a rigid neo-stalinist regime . at the same time , the situation of the political right in each central european country is influenced by experiences that are rooted in history and tradition .
the eu ’s maastricht treaty explicitly reserves this tax-and-transfer authority to eu member states ; a reflection of europeans ’ ’ unwillingness to transfer funds to other countries ’ people in the way that americans are prepared to do among people in various states . a third important difference is that all us states are obligated from their constitutions to balance their yearly operating budgets . even a state like california , seen by many as a poster child for fiscal profligacy , now has annual us budget deficits of just 1 % of its gdp and widespread liability debt of just 4 % of gdp . while a “ rainy day ” fund funds that are accumulate in boom years are being used to cope with temporary revenue shortfalls , us states ’ then-“ universal liabilities ” borrowing is limited to capital projects like roads and schools . those limits on state-level budget deficits are a logical implication of america ’s inability to create money to fill fiscal gaps .
globalization proceeded at a accelerating pace through much of the past century , at an especially accelerating pace over the past two decades . yet the vast body of evidence suggests that technological change was a much larger driver in global wage patterns than trade . i have no doubt that sometime later this century , one will be able to buy up pocket professors – perhaps with holographic pictures – as easy as one can buy pockets kasparov chess a computer today . having said that , i do n’t certainly do n’t feel safe as an economics professor ! so let ’s return to india and china on this issue .
some empirical studies of cross-country data find net beneficial effects on environmental degradation indicators like the local sulfur-dioxide air pollution . provided that countries have effective national governance institutions , trade and growth gives them the means to clean up their air . specialization within each country allows people to obtain more of what they want , which – especially at higher income levels – includes cleaner air and water . so , is trade globalization , on balance , better or worse ? provided that countries have effective national governance institutions , free trade , give them the means to clean their air .
tokyo – during the cold war , a term “ kremlinology ” referred to an effort to grasp what was taking place at the commanding heights of the soviet union – indeed , behind the entire iron curtain . great significance was read into who signed an official document , or to stand where atop lenin ’s “ tomb ” in red square , when revising the military parades . kremlinologists monitored ( to whatever extent possible ) who was up and who down among core soviet leadership . all of that was grammar-school stuff in comparison to efforts to decipher the regime in north korea , where the truth is far more opaque . now , consider what happened on december 17 , in 1990 .
so what , then , should the latin american economies do ? they surely have the right to defer , whether through foreign-exchange intervention and consequent reserve accumulation ( a potentially lucrative option when capital flows are actually temporary ) , imposing capital controls , or other currency-related macro-prudential policies aimed at countercyclical exchange-rate smoothing . in a desperate last-ditch effort , the imf is now inventing “ spill-over news ” for a few systemically important economies to run at the margins of its country ( article iv ) consultations . this initiative is destined to fail – as has the imf ’s multilateral surveillance exercise or g-20 peer reviews in recent history . even if the massive spillovers are plainly recognized , it is hard to see how that exercise would solve the fundamental problem behind the currency war : major players ’ apparent unwillingness to reconcile vastly different national interests .
the imf had the money that it needs . countries were warned : avoid trade deficits and build up reserves because they were the keys to be keynesian finance . east asian countries followed that advice , and for a good reason : they saw the aftermath of a shortage of reserves . east asian governments followed up with that advice , and for a good reason : they saw the aftermath of a shortage of reserves . east asian governments knew then that imf policies would deepen their downturns , but were powerless to resist .
welfare-to-work programs in michigan and wisconsin served as the model for federal welfare reform under president bill clinton ; and obamacare operates in the massachusetts institute of health-care , introduced under republican governor mitt romney . likewise , from 2000 to 2014 , by enacting a wide range of energy policies – from massachusetts to climate action plans to mandated renewable-energy standards – the us slashed its carbon-dioxide emissions , while expanding their economies . more recently , some states have implemented cap-and-trade systems to put a carbon price , and many are already on track to meet obama ’s clean-power plan targets . there are three states implementing laws that offer paid family leave with a fourth straight . yet half of all us states have now legalized marijuana in some form , with eighth embracing fully legalization .
cambridge – it is true that i want to be a part of it – the new york times , new york , ” ” ” ” ” frank sinatra ’s frank sinatra sang of a city that attracted so much of the world ’s most ambitious people , from artists and performers to businesspeople and bankers . in a sense , this is not a difficult phenomenon to explain ; metropolises like new york city , with their highly multicultural populations , multinational corporations , and multitude of talented individuals , are rife with opportunities . geoffrey the west in 2010 , together with a team of researchers , has discovered that a few socioeconomic measures , both positive and negative , increase with the size of the local population . in other words , the bigger the city , the higher the average wage , its productivity levels , the proliferation of patents per person , the crime rate , the prevalence of anxiety , and the incidence of hiv . yet the impact of large cities runs deeper than economic or even cultural power ; cities can fundamentally alter people ’s lives , and even those of people
at a time when america ’s nuclear-reactor purchases – made possible by an historic deal negotiated by the bush administration – america ’s insistence on exemptions from supplier responsibility for it when it went wrong , some regard india ’s spurning of us aircraft as a gratuitous rejection of an opportunity to demonstrate that friendship with india helps america , too . against this are the unambiguous advantages of pleasing a major new ally and developing a pattern of bilateral military cooperation on supply , training , and operations that has so far been evolving . as if all of this were not enough to decide against america , the clincher might well have been india ’s desire to avoid any further procurement controversy at a time when corruption charges beset it from all sides . ( an eventual winner in the us bid is likely to have to enter into a joint-manufacturing arrangement with india that american companies would not have done . ) a decision made on technical grounds , many of feeling , would be easier to defend than one based on political considerations .
as a result , big transnational institutions are lobbying hard for a pan-european approach to banking supervision and regulation ( and implicitly for fiscal bailouts should fail ) . in the us , meanwhile , banks that required state rescues , european competition rules are being requiring divestment and downsizing . in most cases , this means continued haircuts on lending , worsening the impact of the financial crisis on the rest of the economy . even stronger banks are also being pressured to increase their capital buffers . institutions like the royal bank of scotland , which for a while in 2009 at the list of the world ’s largest international banks , are also prunking the eu ’s directorate general for competitive purposes . as a result , big transnational institutions are lobbying hard for a pan-european approach to banking supervision and regulation ( and implicitly for fiscal bailouts should failing ) .
more ominous , according to a confidential us intelligence report , north korea has beefed up capabilities to miniaturize nuclear warheads , and may have as many as 60 bombs . the stakes are rising in kim and trump ’s game of chicken . north korea immediately did just that , threatening to carry out an “ enveloping ” strike on america ’s territory of guam . and , indeed , as this exchange of rhetorical fire has unfolded , america was reportedly preparing revised military options for striking north korea . trump shot back that america ’s military is “ locked and loaded . ”
two conclusions can be drawn from all of this . the first is that we all owe at least some of our success to others , in terms of the public goods that society provides . the second conclusion is that the most privileged classes that have benefited the most from the solidarity of others , notably the poor , can no longer deny the latter ’s contributions . this calls for more modesty and restraint in determining top pay , not for moral reasons but for the sustainability of such a system . but do not hold your breath waiting for them to agree upon .
the economy would suffer because the economic model underlying the eurozone predicated on power relationships that disadvantaged workers . and , sure enough , what we are seeing now , 16 years after the eurozone institutionalized such relationships is the antithesis of democracy : many european leaders want to see the end of prime minister alexis tsipras ’s leftist government . the economy would suffer , because the underlying economic model predicated on power relations that disadvantaged workers . they understood that the rise of unemployment would result if the country ’s monetary policy were set by the central bank , which focused single-mindedly on core inflation ( together with a lack of adequate attention to financial stability ) . after all , it is extremely inconvenient to have in greece a government that is so opposed to the type of policies that have done so much to increase inequality in so many advanced countries , and that is so committed to curbing unbridled power of wealth .
durham – earlier this year , islamist politics faced massive setbacks in two important predominantly muslim countries : egypt and turkey . just one year after the muslim brotherhood ’s mohamed morsi became egypt ’s first elected president , one million egyptians took to the street to initiate a military coup that ousted him . morsi ’s political incompetence and a lack of vision in the face of economic collapse would have been sufficient to diminish support for his government . but his rejection of pluralism and the pursuit of an islamic dictatorship , exemplified by his efforts to centralize power in the brotherhood ’s hands and place himself beyond the examination of egypt ’s judiciary , has proved to be his undoing . nonetheless , too soon , it is picking up political islam as a skillful participant , even a front force , in a pluralist democracy .
the next day , british researchers at newcastle university ’s announced that they were successfully producing cloned human embryo , using donated eggs and stem genetic material . both breakthroughs constitute a stunning advance in stem-cell research . embryonic stem cells are “ pluripotent , ” meaning that they have the capability to evolve into any kind of human tissue . this carries big promise , mostly for the sufferers of spinal cord injuries and ailments . on may 19 , a group of korean researchers published in the journal science report the results of research that for the first time isolated human embryonic stem cell lines specifically tailored to counter the dna of men and female patients of different ages .
finally , china can lower government spending ( over the medium term ) by streamlining its vast administrative hierarchy . in recent decades , many of the largest global companies in the world have been pursuing new technologies to reduce the number of employee layers , from top executives to factory workers , thereby reducing costs and boosting efficiency . this includes ramping up the tradable-permit agenda by reducing the threshold beyond which firms must pay , and eliminating exemptions from permits for firms or industries . such actions would not only boost fiscal sustainability – additional revenues could total 2 % of gdp – but also improve the efficiency of total resource allocation . china ’s government , on the other hand , has retained the same six-layer of administrative structure – beginning with the central government and moving down through the provinces , prefectures , districts , township , and villages – since the founding of the people ’s republic 70 years ago .
when one pole of nuclear deterrence weakened , owing to russia ’s political decline in the 1990 ’s , nato , a defense union of democratic and peaceful states , asserted aggression against yugoslavia . now that russia has restored its ability , such a move would be unthinkable . indeed , the risks to a world without nuclear weapons – or only a minimal number – are tremendous . indeed , the threat of a world without nuclear weapons – or only a minimal number – is tremendous . yet it worked , preventing catastrophic wars , while making people much more civilized and prudent .
as the tragedy unfolded , researchers gained more understanding . the prion gene is provided by an infected individual in which it resides in an innocuous state . the infectious prion then hijacks the body ’s machinery , reprogramming it into a willing high executioner of prion ’s replication . prions seem to defy all conventional wisdom , surviving pressure-cooking , irradiation , and even incineration at 340 ° c for four hours – treatments that are routinely and reliably used to de-activate all of the known viruses and bacteria . moreover , prions lack its own genes , and the other onto it .
performing colleges in europe point to the us where , among other things , musical directors of even major orchestras are now expected to take full part in fundraising activities and be active in the local community at the orchestras . some of the conductors , rather than wanting to carry a tin cup as they wave their batons , have dismissed important posts in the us for this reason , feeling that it interferes with their art . yet america ’s experience demonstrates that obtaining artistic leaders like orchestra music directors to engage in fundraising need not be bad for the artistic side of the job . the same thing to fear , they fear , will do in europe , too . daniel barenboim rumored to have left the chicago symphony in part because he opposed the fundraising demands that trump ran against him .
the council is more likely to accept the option of mounting a punitive program of airstrikes – going well beyond what was done in may 1998 – on suspected wmd sites , presidential compounds , republican guards , and other armed-force targets . this would hurt and weaken saddam and establish unmistakably the message that defiance of the un carries severe sanctions . the us should not forswear that possibility , but it refuses to consider the un to do so , not least because the security council – whose backing will be politically , if not legally crucial – may never support a invasion . one would be curiously to uphold the council ’s authority by doing that failed to gain its approbation . at the same time , the council could declare that any fresh aggression or any use , threat , or transfer of wmd would trigger saddam ’s removal and its pursuit as an international criminal like slobodan milosevic .
this time , dr. ahmed , the iraqi counterpart , realized that the situation was up . some of the inspectors that he knew well , dined with them on collegial terms during the visits to vienna . soon , the inspectors returned to tarmiya for tarmiya in their midst . that he could lie to them so brazenly was incomprehensible to his friends on a inspection team . some of the inspectors that he knew well , dined with them on collegial terms during vienna visits .
but china ’s dizzying rise has also dispelled three leading myths about the impact of economic growth . the first is that growth reduces inequality and increases happiness . in 1955 , the nobel laureate economist simon kuznets hypothesized that income inequality would rise sharply , and then decline , in a inverted pattern or bell – as countries underwent economic development . given the pace of china ’s economic growth since 1978 , its experience refutes that claim more powerfully than any other scenario . after all , china is now one of the world ’s most unequal countries .
pakistan held free and fair elections in 2002 and 2007 , and it is preparing to hold another in late 2012 or so in early 2013 . it must also mean developing a robust rule of law , granting people enforceable property rights , and giving citizens institutional means to settle their disputes . thus , pakistan has taken one further step toward developing a political system based on the rule of law . having managed to remove gilani , the us would be the first prime minister to complete his full term . of course , democracy always means doing more than periodically holding free and fair elections .
this year , european peoples in europe are marking the 20th anniversary of the fall of the iron curtain that once divided europe in two . of course , the tourists who crowd cuba ’s beaches do not mark this iron curtain . but , whatever this ignorance and in terms of its economic interests , the eu should insist that political prisoners will be freed and use all international institutions to put pressure on cuba ’s government to respect cuba ’s human and civil rights . conversely , cuba ’s government continues to detain prisoners of conscience and criminalizing demands for a society-wide dialogue . that 20 years after this epochal event , an iron curtain remains around cuba makes that anniversary poignant .
brigadier general kyaw hsan , the us military representative , recently told un special envoy ibrahim gambari that us marchers were being “ bogus monks . ” yet the us is genuine , with the thousands of us – from rangoon , mandalay , pegu , arakan , magwe , and sagaing – demonstrated for peace . in fact , some have said that the uprising in burma is over . that is what the us junta wants for the world to think . but we believe the protests represent the beginning of an end to military rule in our country .
but plato would probably marvel in the world in terms of moral progress . after all , he believed that being a “ philosopher ” meant assuming the responsibilities of a moral reformer . yet , although morality was always at the center of his thinking , many moral truths that we now take for granted never materialized . today , on the other hand , even the emphatically non-philosophical person of the word , say , plato ’s “ media escort ” can easily explain why slavery is wrong : “ a person ” is a person . for example , although plato opposed the greeks ’ enslavement , he – like every other ancient greek – condoned the enslavement of a “ barbarians ” ( non-greeks ) .
but it is at least as important to address the local-level social divisions that have emerged as conflict , particularly in violence hubs . here , local and international civil-society organizations , together with regional and municipal governments , have an important role to play , and colombia ’s past experience overcoming similar challenges should prove helpful . such an effort must support progress in another area : rural development , which is the only economic question addressed in the peace deal . ( dismantling the narco-trafficking activities at which the farc have been involved may also be considered an economic issue , given the need to provide alternative opportunities in rural areas ; but , first and foremost , security matters . ) this is hardly surprising : after all , the massive inequities that characterize rural colombia have given the farc the front , and the conflict has been concentrated in such areas .
glattbrug , switzerland – rising youth unemployment , particularly in europe , makes headlines worldwide . roughly 5.5 million europeans , under the age of 25 , are unemployed . moreover , more than 30 % of working-age jobseekers under 25 have been unemployed for over 12 months , and their chances of job creation remain low . at the same time , the youth unemployment rate is above 25 % in 13 european countries , amounting to roughly 30 % in italy , ireland , bulgaria , spain , latvia , hungary and slovakia , and surpassing 55 % in greece and spain . more than 7.5 million people aged 15-24 are “ neets ” – not in jobs , education , or training .
yet america ’s high court set standards so high for american firms to find guilty of predation that few cases are being prosecuted domestically . the us trade negotiators are not even debating the elimination of this dual standard . in the us , foreign producers are accused of `` unfair '' competition far more easily than domestic producers . indeed , if standards for us domestic trade laws were applied internationally , perhaps a supermajority of firms within the us would be guilty of dumping . so what developing countries worry that efforts to introduce `` competition '' within trade negotiations will merely get life harder .
facebook is betting that libra will trigger a taurus market . but libra ’s benefits , however , appear to be just as slippery as the pisces . for the emerging economies , that would mean cured of dollarization merely to catch the even worse case for libraization . the libra project is dangerous like that of leo , and will require government regulation to prevent it from becoming a great cancer . should this happen , then libra will have complicated these countries ’ monetary and exchange-rate policies , helping to trigger a period of slow growth and financial instability .
there is little reason to believe that inclusiveness affects the unsustainability of growth patterns only in developing countries , though the precise dynamics depend on a given array of factors . for example , rising inequality has been less likely to be politically and socially distorting in a high-growth environment ( think a 5-7 % annual rate ) than in a low – or no-growth environment , where the incomes and opportunities of a subset of the population are either stagnant or falling . the latter dynamic is now playing out in france , with last month ’s “ yellow vest ” protests . the immediate causes of the protests have been a new fuel tax to end the protests . the cost has not been all that big ( about $ 0.30 per gallon ) , but fuel prices in france have already been among the highest in europe ( roughly $ 7 per gallon , including the existing taxes ) .
to divide a people to conquer them is an immoral strategy that has endured throughout a recorded history . from alexander the great to stalin ’s cruel , variants of that strategy have been used to keep nations in thrall to the will of the emperor . we are now seeing this strategy at work again as president vladimir putin ’s stealthily seeks to restore kremlin supremacy over the lands treated like “ lost ” when the ussr imploded in 1991 . in the run-up to the euphoric mass protests in kyiv , russia ’s president has since said that he can work with whatever ukraine ’s government chooses . in so overplaying his hand in ukraine ’s recent election , however , putin has clearly laid bare the world ’s his neo-imperialist designs .
skinner interprets this narrowly , focusing on the need for america ’s nato allies to increase their defense spending . what it fails to acknowledge is that the us , too , is forcing the rest of the world to share the burden of its unsustainable structural saving shortfall . in any case , an active ingredient of the trump doctrine is burden-sharing . america consistently runs both a fiscal deficit – with its total expenditures ( of which defense comprised 14.8 % in 2017 ) far exceeding its revenue – and a current-account deficit . if those twin deficits run at a trend rate above 3 % of gdp per annum , net u.s. debt toward the rest of the world – currently stands at more than 40 % of gdp – will double in less than 24 years .
consider , for example , how recent innovations threaten export-oriented industrialization strategies that have fueled many countries ’ development in recent decades . by exploiting plentiful and low-cost labor , developing countries have been able to surmount their share of global manufacturing activities , create jobs , attract investment , and , in some cases , restart a broader industrialization process . but , for firms that seize the opportunity to cut costs through shifting manufacturing to the developing world , there has always been an trade-off with them : offshore production has meant limited capacity to respond rapidly to shifts in consumer demand . now , technology may offer another option , but it may be possible . by investing in “ additive manufacturing , ” ” ” ” robots , and other nonhuman tools , companies could move their manufacturing sites closer to their final markets .
for instance , joyce , my former ceo , has a husband who is a diehard manchester united fan . every season , she break at least one piece of furniture if her team has lost . couches are stained with beer , and kicked as he spurned his favorite teams . even the wives of men watching the game at home have parched other issues that must cope with one another . she has now changed her furniture at least twice since she married herself four years ago .
that set the stage for a paradigmatic shift in understanding of homicidal monsters as the other . increasingly , such protagonists became a focus of academic attention , cultural criticism , and the popular culture itself . in fact , has any monster not yet been viewed as a possible conveyor of the revolutionary idea ? the idea that a murderous monster could symbolize a protester or outcast and therefore deserve sympathy , originated with the french philosophers gilles deleuze and pierre-félix guattari . harder rené girard ’s explanation of the origin of irrational violence and hatred toward another – ethnic or religious minorities that have been demonized and victimized by – delineuze and guattari extended the concept of otherness to vampire .
copenhagen – discussions about global warming are marked by an increasing desire to stamp out “ impure ” thinking , to questioning the value of democratic debate . but closing down discussion simply implies the disappearance of reason from public policy . in march , al gore ’s science advisor and a prominent climate researcher , jim hansen , proclaimed that , when it comes to tackling global warming , “ the democratic process does n’t work . ” while science has shown that co2 from fossil fuels is heating up the planet , policymakers are reluctant to follow through on their advice and to stop building coal-fired power plants . hansen argues , “ “ the first action that people should take is to harness the democratic process . ”
and , though south korea slipped to 80th place in the ipu ’s budapest rankings , the plunge reflected the subsequent growth of the share of female legislators in other countries . according to the inter-parliamentary union ( ipu ) , that election pushed south korea from 101st to 62nd place globally in terms of the share of female mps , well ahead of 121st-ranked japan . a major cause behind the rise of mps was the introduction of a quota system , under which south korea ’s political parties should ensure that 30 % of their female candidates are female . the campaign-finance law was revised to provide additional government funding to parties that meet their mandates , reducing the amount for parties that do not . the increase for women mps had led not only to increased female cabinet members , but also to a wide variety of policies and institutional improvements that target women ’s views .
courts and other official adjudicative bodies should make fair practices . for bingham , the law needs to be accessible and – insofar as it is possible – intelligible , clear , clear , and predictable . there should be equality before law , combined with adequate protection of fundamental human rights . everyone should be governed in the name of law , insulated from the personal discretionary power of those in power ; and legal disputes should be resolved without prohibitive cost or inordinate delay . moreover , state power should reasonably be exercised over good faith and on the ends for which it has been conferred , with an independent judiciary and judicial review of legislative making ensuring that government does not transcend its authority .
in france , the national front , which finished second in the 2002 presidential election , has since been revitalized under marine le pen . nor is the backlash confined to the rest of the country to the european union ’s core members . it is the extreme right that has benefited the failures of most centrists . in finland , the heresy of the true finn party has capitalized on resentment around the eurozone ’s bailouts to spell a close third , in april ’s general election . in the netherlands , geert wilders ’ freedom party ’s party capitalized on resentment around the eurozone ’s bailouts to spell a close third , in april ’s general election .
the fourth factor is , obviously , german business interests . german firms make a lot of money in the so-called visegrád four – the czech republic , hungary , poland and slovakia – which together amount to germany ’s largest trade partner . the eu pays turkey in europe , while seehofer pays orbán by tolerating what no german politician should . on his own , hungary is germany ’s 14th-largest trade partner in terms of both exports and imports . but , here , the hungarian tail is wagering the german dog .
brussels – new controversy has emerged between europe and a few of its major trade partners since the eu ’s decision to integrate into its carbon emission-control scheme virtually all of its flights to and from its territory , including transcontinental flights . us china and the united states are outraged . the ceos of us aircraft manufacturer airbus and the major european airlines have urged european leaders to step in . and us airlines will have to acquire the emission permits for their flights ’ co2 emissions . with us airlines , the eu has delayed orders to buy european aircraft .
yes , special arrangements can be negotiated ; but each has to be negotiated individually . and , for the record , norway is an important net contributor to the eu budget , the price of negotiating , despite not being a member . when we in government looked closely at the risks to london as the financial center from being outside of europe , we concluded that there was no compelling case that it could damage the us . yet we were never in any doubt that being left out of europe altogether is an entirely different matter . i doubt that other european countries would allow britain to work like some kind of offshore center at the periphery of europe , free-riding on europe ’s responsibilities but participating fully in its opportunities .
it also highlighted the rapid pace of epidemiological transition in middle-income countries , as well as the tenacity of communicable , maternal , newborn , and nutritional disturbances in sub-saharan africa . estimates of local disease burdens will be crucial to combating hiv/aids like ebola , checking the elevated toll of non-communicable diseases in middle-income countries , and meeting sustainable-development goals concerning maternal and infant health in sub-saharan africa . but the gbd could do more to inform policy debates and spur action to improve health care if it managed to yield more detailed data breakdowns . to help decision-makers make better use of their data , the institute for public-health metrics and assessment that i head creates geospatial maps for groundbreaking disease burdens . policymakers are our responsibility , first and foremost , to their own constituents whose unique needs they must fulfill .
according to a study by goldman sachs , countries like greece , portugal , and spain will have to become 20-30 % cheaper , and german prices will have to rise by more than 20 % relative to the eurozone average . from that perspective , the crisis countries would not be spared painful retrenchment for as long as they remained in a monetary union involving competitive countries . the only way to avoid that would be for them to exit the euro and devalue their new currencies . spain , for example , would still have to lower its price by 22-24 relative to the new eurozone average . to be sure , if germany were to leave the common currency , a road back to competitiveness would be easier for the southern countries , as the rump euro undergoing conversion ; but the crisis-country ’ fundamental problem remains so long as the other competitive countries remain in the eurozone .
such training , together with student affinity for their fellow fishermen and their expertise for braving the turbulent seas , would make for the highly effective reserve unit of account , to be deployed as catastrophe strikes . to be sure , immediate relief is vitally important : ockhi capsized altogether in some coastal regions , causing severe economic ( not to mention emotional ) distress for the region ’s poor fishing communities . one way to boost india ’s disaster-response capabilities would be to create the marine equivalent of our territorial army , training selected fisherman in how to carry out search-and-rescue operations . but perhaps it is time to consider whether it is fair to condemn these communities to long-term agricultural dependence . another issue that risks being overlooked to focus urgent and immediate financial relief is coastal communities ’ long-term economic needs .
ramallah – the united states should stop pushing for the resumption of the palestinian-israeli peace process . doing so might be the best course to achieve a peace regime in the first place , a paradox that reflects the vast gap in the peace process in achieving genuine peace . make no mistake : this is not an invitation to arms or appeals to violent uprising . but if a single party cares more about the process than it needs for the peace of its own , something needs to be proven wrong . peace between the conflicting parties east of the mediterranean and the west of the jordan river can and must come through talks .
the two world wars and the cold war shaped european integration as both the project of peace , the defense of the west ’s fundamental values , and shared economic prosperity . but the collapse of communism in 1989 , and the chance of overcoming the continent ’s historic divisions , now required a redefinition of the european project . declarations by german chancellor angela merkel , whose country assumed the european union ’s rotating six-month presidency at the beginning of the year 2007 , are inversely unambiguous : the periods of reflection approved by the european commission in 2005 have come to an end . the treaties of maastricht ( 1992 ) and amsterdam ( 1997 ) created a new organizational structure for the eu and laid the foundations for political institutions equal to europe ’s economic power . the nice treaty ( 2000 ) was a consequence of a rather poor compromise .
but another key aspect of the yeltsin era – its " rollicking debates " – has fallen silent . after the government seized influence over the independent tv networks , ntv , and tv6 , russia 's media became vastly duller . whenever i arrive in moscow , i am struck by our new book shops and buildings . part of the explanation for this is increased official control ; part is declining public concern ; and part is that the problems facing russia today simply look less urgent . the most recent fad is for officials to sue libel newspapers , demanding more than $ 1 million .
the short answer is that the scandinavian countries give their people work that pays a decent enough wage in order to maintain a healthy and happy life . true , the united states is not denmark ; it is the same . but it is not wrong to ask what makes the scandinavian welfare economies so successful and what americans can learn from them . after all , according to oecd countries , the top seven countries worldwide have the welfare economies of the us . one need not be an economist to understand that a country with wealth depends , to a large extent , on the share of its population doing productive work in high-value jobs .
berkeley – on my desk right now is reporter timothy noah ’s new book the great divergence : america ’s growing crisis of inequality and what we can do about it , and milton friedman ’s classical free choice to elect : a personal declaration . back then , friedmans made three powerful factual claims about how the world works – claims that seemed true , or perhaps at least arguably true , at that time – but that now seemed distinctly false . their case for the small-government libertarianism rested largely on these claims ; now , it has crumbled so far , as the world has proved to turn , disagreed about how it worked . the first claim was that macroeconomic distress was caused by governments , not by volatile private markets or , rather , that the mix of macroeconomic regulation required to generate economic stability was straightforward and easy to achieve . to find them together , my overwhelming thought is that the friedmans would find their task of justifying and advocating an small-government libertarianism far tougher today than they were in 1979 .
according to the african union ’s high-level panel on illicit flows , chaired by former south african president thabo mbeki , africa loses more than $ 50 billion annually from illicit financial outflows . the g20 and the oecd have already outlined measures to counter tax-avoidance methods , such as targets for base erosion and profit shifting . now , the g20 should follow through on that commitment , and set a clear timeframe for ending fossil-fuel subsidies , including full transparency regarding such spending since the 2017 elections onward , and banning exploration and production subsidies by 2018 . second , the g20 must commit to combating tax avoidance and discouraging the murky system of tax havens and shell companies ( brought to light earlier this year by the panama papers ) , used to pump money out of africa . g20 members should reinforce fiscal disclosure requirements , prevent the creation of shell companies ; intensify efforts to combat money laundering ; and establish corporate-tax registries .
most immediately , unit two in south ukraine will reach that point in less than three weeks , implying that the snriu now must decide whether to grant that unit of a 20-year lifetime extension . the snriu will make this critical choice without the key insights of the health and environmental risks that the reactor presents to ukraine and its neighbors . though this contravenes ukraine ’s responsibility as a signatory to the espoo convention to carry out a cross-border environmental-impact assessment ( not to mention missing the opportunity to consider potential alternatives to the continued operation of the reactor ’s operation ) , no such analysis is expected to take hold . last month , campaign groups in neighboring countries wrote to their interlocutors at the ebrd , requesting that the bank suspend its support for revitalizing ukraine ’s nuclear plants until cross-border assessments occur . though this contravenes ukraine ’s responsibility as a signatory to the espoo convention to carry out a cross-border environmental-impact assessment ( not to mention missing an opportunity to consider potential alternatives to the continued reactor ’s operations ) , no such analysis is expected to take place .
curitiba , brazil , has introduced a new model for urban food production . as a result , global green bond issuance could reach $ 300 billion this year . and oslo has created a climate budget to guide financial decision-making . at the business level , more than 700 companies with annual market capitalization exceeding $ 16 trillion have made far-reaching climate commitments ; under the us , they mean a business coalition . and 289 investors , holding nearly $ 30 trillion in assets , have signed on to climate action , a five-year initiative to internationalize the world ’s largest corporate greenhouse-gas emitters to improve climate governance , curb emissions , and bolster climate-related disclosures .
to succeed in restoring a robust growth path , east asia needs to deliver justice to more than individual human rights abuses . as asian values proponents argue , every aspect of human rights – civil and political in the same way as social and economic – needs to be strengthened . if not , human-rights advocates and human rights will face a backlash . already , some indonesians seem to be nostalgic for suharto ’s new order . but this was no recipe for renewed stability and growth .
a key theoretical point in the transition to an debt-fueled economy was the redefinition of uncertainty as risk . that was the major achievement of mathematical economics in the first place . by contrast , the virtuous chinese , saving a large share of their incomes , castigated western economists for their failure to see that their duty to humanity was to spend . the main theoretical point in the transition to an debt-fueled economy was re-defined as uncertainty as risk . whereas guarding against uncertainty had traditionally had moral concerns , hedging against risk is a purely technical question .
having excluded a grand coalition with either the anti-establishment opposition five star movement or former prime minister silvio berlusconi ’s center-right party , bersani will depend on senators ’ willingness to support specific measures . a crisis in cyprus – which threatens to cause the country ’s banking system to collapse and force cyprus from within the eurozone – could force the situation even more difficult to manage . but , at the same time , this approach is inherently inefficient and unstable . as a result , italy – and the european union – are headed for the kind of political and financial turmoil that followed greece ’s general election last may , when a similar failure to produce a parliamentary majority enforced another election the following month . italy and greece have much in common , beginning with an institutional malaise .
in the 1980s , for example , the us entered into such a foreign car , microchip , steel , lumber , and machine-tool manufacturers . some of the conditions imposed then have since been cut off from the world trade organization . yet , just a few years ago , the american auto industry pressed for the requirement in a trade deal that would have granted it a minimal market share for us exports to south korea . trump is likely to dust off these tools further . if trump wants to block us manufacturing from moving overseas , encouraging investment from abroad , us companies might soon see trump pushed to agree “ voluntarily ” on outsourcing restrictions and localization requirements .
america ’s population today is only 4.4 % of the world ’s population . and us per capita emissions are higher than in any other large country by far . in the short term , it is america , where per capita emissions have always been a few times higher than the global average , which owes the global system to climate fairness , not the other way around . indeed , the paris accord does not victimize the us ; on the contrary , the us has a world-beating responsibility to get its house in order . according to data from the world resource institute , the us accounted for an astounding 26.6 % of global greenhouse-gas emissions between 1850 and 2013 .
china ’s gdp growth , for example , was unaffected ( in fact , the economy grew at almost 10 % ) when the stock market lost half of its value from 2001 to 2005 – or , for that matter , when the market then recovered ( only to fall again following the 2008 financial crisis ) . since then , china ’s stock market had become a global laggard , that is , until the previous year as it became the world ’s best performing , rising to over 150 % . and yet the roller-coaster pattern continues : the 8.5 % plunge came when the market re-opened on a monday that followed the largest two-day rising trend since 2008 . and that volatility is the other reason why the casino metaphor applies : china ’s stock market can rise again or fall by double-digit digits without provoking a broader economic crash – to say the least . that rise was preceded by the loss of nearly one-third of the market ’s value from mid-june to early june .
once again , the conversation has turned to macron for the time being , it has increasingly turned to the conversation . it has been attempting to explain that his trademark phrase , en même temps ( simultaneously ) , which tends to be heard here as the expression of american-style pragmatism , may instead be one of the more palpable footprints of his doctrinal proximity to the french protestant philosopher paul ricœur . in fact , i tried to explain the fact that his trademark phrase , en même temps ( simultaneously ) , which tends to be heard here as an expression of american-style pragmatism , may instead be one of the clearest trappings of his doctrinal proximity to the french protestant philosopher paul ricœur . far from reflecting careful deliberation over an ambiguous choice , “ simultaneously ” is the credo of someone suspended in fear and shudder before the unsolvable , terrifying , and resurrected of the tormented body of christ . yet , very soon we come to terms with anti-semitism in america .
santiago – now that populists come to power in the west , conflict over intellectual ownership in their approach is brewing . in the twentieth century , perón and the vargas , plus alan garcía in perú ( at least during his first term ) , daniel ortega in nicaragua and salvador allende in chile and many others , engaged in trade protectionism , ran large budget deficits , overheated their economies , enabled inflation to soar , and finally suffered currency crises . writers like john tsang argue that nineteenth-century americans had invented political populism , with its anti-elitist stance and inflammatory rhetoric . yet there can be no disagreement that latin americans were the longest and best practitioners of economic populism . argentines , having given the world über-populist juan domingo perón or brazilians who brought the us getúlio vargas , may beg to differ .
but it was the recent declaration by us secretary of defense robert gates that looked especially shocking to the israelis . he has expressed understanding for iran ’s desire to acquire nuclear weapons because , admittedly , iranians are encircled by nuclear powers like pakistan , india , iran , russia , and israel . israel is bound to fight with this emerging new american doctrine that equates it with iran , or even with india and pakistan for that matter . its political contexts matter ; israelis will argue . what is remarkable is that it has lasted so long .
abidjan – on december 2 , côte d’ivoire ’s independent former electoral commission ( cei ) declared opposition leader , alassane ouattara , the winner of the country ’s november presidential election , holding 54.1 % of the vote . the decision , reached in less than 24 hours , left many ivorians flabbergasted . the united states , the european union , canada , and the united nations secretary-general each congratulated ouattara and calling on gbagbo to respect the will of the people . the incumbent , laurent gbagbo , has gained 45.9 % . one day after the result was declared , the country ’s constitutional council , led by gbagbo ’s close ally paul yao n’dre , annulled the results from seven departments in the north , proclaiming gbagbo ’s electoral winner with 51 % of the vote . the decision , reached in less than 24 hours , left many ivorians flabbergasted .
in sharp approaching is not only last year ’s march anniversary disturbances in tibet , but also the 50th anniversary of the tibetan unrest of 1959 , which ushered in the dalai lama ’s exile and his supporters . littered with the host of extraordinarily sensitive anniversaries , 2009 could have demonstrated an even more dramatic and unpredictable process than that of 2008 . unlike last year , when the rush home for lunar new year celebration was hammered out against freak storms , this year , millions of migrant workers had already returned to their rural households . many will stay there , given that the global economic downturn hit china hard , costing it their jobs . since the riots of last spring , china ’s government has taken many proactive action , even adopting a “ serf liberation day ” to defend its record in tibet of the previous 50 years , while continuing to talk with the dalai lama ’s representatives .
managing the deficit required difficult decisions – from reforming the welfare system and increasing the state pension age to controlling public-sector pay – to create effective decisions . but i always believed that a country can not make itself richer by writing checks to its policies alone . a government that lives within its means is a necessary condition for securing the economy for the long term , but that is not sufficient . we need responsible choices to ensure that we can live within our means – and that is what i am determined to deliver . success also entails taking bold steps to tear up trade barriers and open the economy to investment from fast-growing countries like china and india .
indeed , the recent boom in some parts of the developing world shows precisely this . the key to achieving it is the capacity to diversify domestic manufacturing by generating new activities , boosting intra-country economic linkages , and creating new domestic technological capabilities . conversely , de-industrialization and the concentration of growth in informal service activities are a proven recipe for failure , as have been shown by the sad experiences of much of the developing world over the last few decades . second , while pushing the technological frontier is the critical ingredient in the growth of industrial countries , what matters for developing countries is transformation of production and exports structures , particularly by shifting resources to higher-level activities . building the industrial and modern service sectors is a critical enabler of successful diversification .
today , few seem to know where the term “ globalization ” originated . the oxford english dictionary brings as the earliest benchmark for its present usage an academic article from 1972 . the oed etymology ignores the non-english origins of the term , coming to be found in the inventive linguistic terminology of continental european student radicalism . the word was used earlier , but in a rather different sense , way of doing so . it was the diplomatic term conveying the linkage among disparate policy domains ( for example , in bargaining simultaneously on financial and security matters ) .
the credible threat of war of war has been essential to achieve this exceptional feat . but precisely because it is so extraordinary it is hard to see how to implement these threats by launching a war can make any sense at all . the best “ serious consequences ” , of which the un security council warned should iraq fail to honor its commitments would be an even sharper effort to destroy its illicit arms buildup through relentless inspections of the country ’s offensive military capabilities : un inspectors , not invaders . without his determination , backed by a highly credible show of military force , and skillful diplomacy , iran ’s military program would not now be exposed as a more intense effort to destroy its illicit weapons through continuous inspections of the country ’s offensive military capabilities : un inspectors , not invaders . if inspections in iraq were exposed as if they lied and cheated this would be an affirmation of inspections ’ effectiveness , scarcely a grounds for military reprisals .
while their vision of “ information-security ” information ” might legitimize authoritarian governments ’ censorship and thus unacceptably high access to democratic governments , identifying and target behaviors that are illegal everywhere . in fact , major states would have an interest in limiting the damage by agreeing to collaborate on forensics and control . limiting all intrusions would be impossible , but one might start with cybercrime and cyber-crime , which could then start . to be sure , historical analogies are imperfect , and they are certain to get started in the future . major states would have an interest in limiting the damage by agreeing to collaborate on forensics and inspection .
most of the debt is owed within the state system – for example , by state-owned enterprises ( soes ) to state-owned banks , and the government could simply write off bad debts and recapitalize the banks , financing the operations with either borrowed or printed money . alternatively , the banks could perpetually roll over existing debt , perpetuating new loans to repay old debts . to be sure , this would produce wasted investment , in one way or another . indeed , with banks failing to impose hard budget constraints on financially unsustainable enterprises , and with the planning system incapable of imposing alternative efficient discipline , china is already awash with apartment blocks in third-tier cities that will never be occupied , with massive overcapacity in heavy industry . yet , as some chinese policymakers overreact , all of growth processes involve junk growth : nineteenth-century railways in britain , and america have created enormous overcapacity and investor losses , even as they have generated economic transformation .
moreover , namibia ’s government has wisely understood that abundant natural resources can easily become a curse , enriching a few at the expense of the many . the authorities know that unless namibia ’s natural wealth is invested in infrastructure and its people ’s productive capacity , resource exhaustion will leave the country poorer , not richer . they also know that it would be irresponsible not to garner the namibians the most potential from within the country ’s resources , and to be rethinking investment laws and auditing mining contracts in order to ensure that this is the case . transparency international is critical to this process by which the government ’s heavy support for press freedom is so important . as president hage geingob has said , the press often says things that it does n’t like .
it is not unimaginable that this kind of cooperation could spread to encompass other neighbors around the levant . the good news is that cyprus ’s newly elected president , nicos anastasiades , may be on open door to such an agenda . naturally , much will depend on how it operates politically in the current turmoil surrounding the bailout package . nonetheless , an cautious look beyond the current turbulence – and into asian history – provides grounds for optimism . anastasiades , the pro-european ted cruz of the sinayermós sinayermós ( the democratic rally ) party , won 57 % of the popular vote on a platform that emphasized economic recovery , and this would naturally be his top priority .
it is not a structure conducive to political coups de theâtre , and much of the commission ’s work here is the relentless grind of eu regulation and re-regulation . yet the bottom line is that at a time when everyone is asking , “ what is europe doing ? ” but the bottom line is that at a time when everyone is asking , “ what is europe doing ? ” for reasons that are now obscure , there is an unwritten rule that commission presidents need to be drawn from the ranks of past or current prime ministers . the commission ’s own internal culture of catholics and red tape is the constraint that nobody in brussels much likes to discuss .
britain has chosen to leave the eu because it had outsized views of itself . but it will soon need to follow the small-country model , like that of switzerland or norway . independence would enable scotland to develop policies that are more in line with the other successful small economies – not least by retaining eu membership . as scotland confronts brexit ’s strategic challenges , it will also have an opportunity to develop policies that are better suited to it . but , beyond this point , it is far from clear that the uk provides such security , particularly that it is now on a path to move away from the eu ’s single market and customs union .
second , with china such an influential driver of global demand ( both directly and indirectly through important web effects ) , the outlook for the world ’s second-largest economy has disproportionately large projections of global corporate revenues . third , while companies recognize that innovation has a key comparative advantage in today ’s global economy , they , too , are slogging along through its increasingly winner-take-all nature . as a result , many companies , less convinced that “ normal ” innovation yields large payoffs , end up investing less overall than they did in the past . and , with china ’s excessive domestic credit expansion and the shadow-banking system attracting outside attention , many firms are becoming anxious . successful innovations today are a lot less about funding , and much more about discovering the now-famous killer app .
stockholm – it has been one year since the failed coup in turkey , and questions about the country ’s future still linger . last year , ’s attempted coup was anything but dramatic . mutinous f-16 fighter jets bombed the turkish parliament , causing 249 people to lose their lives . but the putschists failed to detain president recep tayyip erdoğan , who then mobilized his own supporters and sealed a coup ’s fate . had the coup no longer been stymied within the first 48 hours , turkey probably would have descended into a devastating and violent civil war , the consequences extended well beyond its borders .
seoul – once again , tension is on the rise throughout asia over north korea ’s missile program . in contrast to its previous “ surprise ” missile launches , north korea ’s government , this time announced international agencies to relaunch a “ satellite ” ” satellite ” ” ” ” sometime between april 4 and may 8 . the question for the world now is not whether the north korean regime will launch its missiles , but what will happen afterward . the united states , japan , and south korea have already publicly condemned the launch as both the us-led “ provocative act ” and the violation of united nations security council resolution 1718 , adopted in october 2006 , five days after north korea conducted its nuclear-weapons test last month . but , instead of hot rhetoric , what is needed now is cool-headed assessments of us military implications of a missile launch .
it has been ten years since the eu launched its eastern partnership , establishing a more reliable framework for the bloc ’s cooperation with armenia , azerbaijan , belarus , georgian , moldova , and ukraine . and it has just held the first round of the us presidential election that meets europe ’s high standards of freedom and fairness . that initiative , it is worth recalling , was partly a response to the russian invasion of the georgian preceding summer , when the kremlin attempted to disband that country by recognizing south ossetia and abkhazia as an independent member state . in the event , not even russia ’s closest allies would agree either to recognize those occupied territories or to legitimize its invasions . the eu deserves some credit for this outcome ; the eu does .
the brexit referendum will point the way , both for the uk and the eu as a whole . without a renewed vision of europe and an effective approach to managing the crisis , the continent 's new ( and old ) political nationalists will continue to gain in force , compromising the entire project of peaceful integration based on the rule of law . yet , however , the british will decide , there is a need to address europe 's numerous crises . for one thing , a baby ’s steps can no longer be sufficient . it will be followed either by sighs of relief ( as i hope ) , or the cataclysm that shock the eu into its core and bringing about a disaster for the uk .
cambridge – now that the dust has settled over the selection of the international monetary fund ’s managing director , the imf may well return to its core crisis-management business . fortunately , the truth is more prosaic . christine lagarde , a competent and well-considered technocrat , will have her hands full with three major challenges . the first , and probably simplest , challenge is to reestablish the imf ’s public image . while the criminal case against dominique strauss-kahn on the sexual-assault charges now seems very uncertain , the ensuing press focus on the imf suggests an uncontrolled international bureaucracy with unlimited expense accounts dominated by men with little sense of restraint .
the rise of the monetary base , however , is only temporary ; when the bonds are redeemed , it reverts to its initial level . this eventual need to deleverage the monetary base is an implicit claim on the central-bank asset assets ; thus , the increase is rightly viewed as a liability on its balance sheet . because the holders of distributed money have no claims on the central bank , an increase in the monetary base should be viewed not as a liability , but as an increase in the central bank ’s net worth . in other words , helicopter money is not interest-free borrowing by the government ; it is the gift . under a helicopter fiscal stimulus , however , the central bank never has to reverse the spike in the international monetary base .
her party accused serra ’s of orchestrating the attack , and , in retaliation , her own party -- the liberal front -- threw its support to ciro gomes . with sarney , lula reigned supreme at the polls , reaching a low of 43 % in mid-may . then , in early june , gomes skyrocketed to 28 % , within lula ’s striking distance , while he declined to 33 % . brazil ’s severe summer market jitters , during which the country ’s risk index suddenly topped nigeria ’s and brief credits to international trade dried up , began changing the face of elections . gomes used the tv time that it was available to his three-party labor alliance in late june to huge effect , but most of the credit his rise during the polls to the outstanding performance of his second wife , the popular actress patricia pillar , recovering from breast cancer .
claremont , california – though an abrupt escalation of violence in hong kong might seem terrifying enough , things might be about getting far worse . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . the communiqué of the recently concluded fourth plenum of the 19th central committee of the communist party of china ( cpc ) indicates that chinese president xi jinping intends to tighten his grip on the former british colony at any cost . he is supposed to prepare to rack up a formidable bill . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to america 's interests elsewhere in the world .
moreover , regional tensions , including escalating political instability in algeria and western sahara ’s thorny issue , have hammered out integration across the maghreb , an absolute necessity for unlocking prosperity in north africa . and yet , despite the challenges it faces , morocco has shown strong leadership on some of today ’s most pressing issues . it has been a vocal champion of counter-extremism initiatives , including responsible religious education , far beyond its own borders . these shortcomings partly reflect enduring governance weaknesses , despite important political reform , notably the 2011 constitutional amendments that shifted powers from national monarch to parliament , and legal reforms like aligning legislation with european and international human-rights norms , as well as progress on family law and gender equality . it has become a global green-energy leader , committing to increase its share of renewable-energy generation to 52 % by 2030 – one of the world ’s most ambitious targets .
after all , there is little reason to believe that the us fiscal compact , or the proposed “ debt brakes ” , will succeed where the maastricht criteria and the sgp failed . to use eurobonds as a mechanism to eliminate the great sovereign-debt overhang jeopardizes the longer-term objective of curbing moral hazard : it offers absolution precisely on the question of 60 % – a of-gdp margin where countries will have the most trouble resisting the temptation . a misplaced hope that enforcement problem can be resolved by enshrining the fiscal compact in member states ’ constitutions might be based on a misunderstanding of america ’s system . after all , there is little reason to believe that a fiscal compact or a proposed “ debt brakes ” will succeed where the maastricht criteria and the sgp failed . to be sure , america ’s federal government was never bailed out by a state , 49 of which ( all but vermont ) have legislation , or a constitutional provision that limits deficit spending .
nonetheless , following amendments to indian patents act ( trips ) , india still has some safeguard in order to avoid the kinds of excesses that the major pharmaceutical companies routinely get away with america and europe . india , for example , abides by a stricter definition of what constitutes the invention , which prevents “ evergreening ” : the process of expanding your patent ’s life by taking down secondary patents for marginal improvements to the former drug . for indian drug makers , manufacturing generic versions of patented drugs would demand a license , and such licenses are rarely if they have ever been issued . yet , with the agreement on trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights ( trips ) coming into force in 1995 , all of the world trade organization ’s member states have had to recognize one another ’s pharmaceutical patents . according to section 3 ( d ) of the indian patents act , “ merely detect a new form … property or … uses for a known substance or simple use of a known process ” ” is not qualified to a patent unless it “ results ” in a new product , or employs at least one new reactant .
with characteristic misogyny , he recently declared that “ brazil is like the virgin that every foreign pervert wants . with characteristic misogyny , he recently declared that “ brazil is like a virgin , which every foreign pervert wants . ” but bolsonaro does not want to keep the amazon chaste ; he merely wants among those exploiting it . his promotion of the rain forests ’ development and his attacks on environmental regulation has led , for example , to a widening of agribusiness , particularly of cattle rands and illegal logging . the foreign actors criticizing brazil ’s exploitation of the rainforest – from european governments to pope francis – are promoting biodiversity only so that they can take advantage of it in the future .
in short : an all-out military conflict with north korea would entail immediate global risks . of course , there are notable distinctions between north korea and iran . the most obvious is that iran ’s nuclear program did n’t take off , whereas north korea – which , unlike iran ’s withdrew from the non-proliferation treaty – already has an estimated 60 nuclear warheads and appears to be making progress toward a nuclear-tipped ballistic missile capable of reaching american land . perhaps trump has begun to recognize that increased us pressure on north korea does not exclude the sitting down to negotiate a deal with kim . kim seems utterly willing to subject the north koreans to privations of any sort that they need to remain in power .
a well-designed currency chapter in the tpp would not impede american monetary independence . a well-designed currency chapter in the tpp would not impede american monetary independence . the third argument against imposing anti-manipulation provisions in the tpp is that they would imperil america ’s ability to enact monetary stimulus . but this reflects a thorough misunderstanding of the issue at hand . a conventional monetary policy operates by altering the short-term interest rate to include the central bank ’s purchases of and selling short government debts .
on this view , the science also has a quite different , higher purpose : understanding the natural world . so it is the funny to boast that one ’s own brand of knowledge , whether experimental physics , mathematics or cosmology , is pointless . but a joke would not work if another highly shared assumption that scientific knowledge has a value independent of any kind of practical utility . after all , it would not be funny if the charities dedicated to famine relief celebrated their own ineffectiveness ; the practical value in that case is paramount because doing so is the only real reason for a charity to exist . so , although potential usefulness is the reason why governments devote so little money to scientific research , people really expect more from science than it does .
new york – last year , us president barack obama ’s administration asked congress for $ 1.8 billion in emergency funding to help prepare for , and to respond to the zika threat . but abortion politics has intervened , because republican legislators – leading congressional hearings on the zika outbreak – have made the funding conditional on recipient countries ’ anti-abortion policies . the problems with the trump approach to containing the zika virus – namely , that it saddles women with too much responsibilities while placing them too little power – are not lost on everyone . last year , the un refugee agency and the world health organization emphasized the need to place human rights at the center of responding to the zika outbreak . its position has not helped , either .
it would reverse the pattern whereby europe relies on repressive regimes to deliver it with oil and gas , and guard its borders against migrants . such an approach needs to be communicated both to the european public and to the people of tunisia , egypt and the other arab countries . if they become “ consolidated democracies , ” as hoped , would-be entrepreneurs could stop worrying so much about official corruption . and start-up loans from europe would make it far easier to seek one ’s fortune back home . at long last , such countries ’ demographic wealth would be exercised to meet their own development needs .
the edmund phelps of columbia university shows that these slow-growing countries lack the “ dynamism ” that he defines as a combination of entrepreneurial spirit and financial institutions to channel it . but does that amount to that an accurate description of their economies of slow-growing nations ? of course , what is advantageous today can be problematic about tomorrow : europe and japan will face severe problems when their demographic pyramids tilt toward the elderly , eliminating the temporary demographic advantage that they have relative to america today . but this , too , is not something that the heavy description of their economies is now coming into play . both the spirit and the requisite financial institutions must be present in order to enable “ creative destruction ” – power joseph schumpeter argued sixty years have been the engine of capitalist prosperity – to unleash .
the popularity ratings of lula ignacia da silva and his team leading opinion polls in the run-up to brazil ’s presidential election serves as a warning that much of the latin american public is ready to reject traditional governments . in argentina , one bumbling president succeeds the next . institutions are torn up , property rights are being challenged , and an accidental and ever-corrupt redistribution effort is underway . peru and venezuela hardly look better ; brazil may soon follow the same course . lula and his party are so far outside the mainstream of economic thought and a policy that capital has already started fleeing -- despite months of elections .
in its recent africa energy outlook , the iea estimates that africa ’s energy consumption will increase by 80 % by 2040 ; but , with the continent , nearly doubling , less energy per person will be accessible . the iea also estimates that renewable power will still cost more , on average , than any other resource – for oil , gas , nuclear , coal , or hydro , even with a carbon tax . by 2040 , in the iea ’s more optimistic scenario , solar power in sub-saharan africa will produce 14kwh per person annually , less than what is needed to keep a single two-watt led on permanently lit . yet west activists apparently believe that the world ’s worst-off people should be content with insufficient and irregular supplies of electricity . few in the rich world would shift to renewables without heavy subsidies ; and certainly no one would cut off their connection to the mostly hydrocarbon-powered grid that provides durable power on cloudy days and at night ( another form of subsidies ) .
where , then , will the high returns from financial products provided by the shadow banking system arrive from the shadow banking system ? according to market sources , total assets managed by the shadow banking system have grown exponentially since 2009 , totaling more than ¥ 14 trillion , or a third of gdp , in the third quarter of 2012 . much has been said in 2011 and early 2012 for the bust in china ’s housing market , and the chain-reaction of defaults in underground credit networks and local-government finance platforms . talk has shifted in 2013 to the dangers of a resurgent housing bubble and the collapse of the shadow banking system , consisting mainly of wealth-management firms and trusts companies . with relatively slow growth , corporate profitability – upon which the returns of the shadow-banking system ’s asset pools are based – is low and falling .
european industries are afflicted by similar problems . the eu ’s refining and petrochemical sector provides the eu with a large share of its fuel , as well as a significant source of fiscal revenue . but , while the industry faces the threat of inflated gas prices from around the world , its concerns closer to home are the abundance of eu and national energy regulations . by any reckoning , that is an important industry that should not suffer from over-regulation . the downstream sector , together with the fuels divide , contributes a combined total of about € 240 billion annually to the treasury coffers .
the eu has always prided itself on being a community of values protecting minorities and welcomed the poor and downtrodden . the answer , it now seems , is that its centrist german chancellor , angela merkel , has pushed back against trump . yet draining europe ’s poison will require much more than scolding the us and praying for trump ’s early departure . in fact , some eu leaders ’ approaches on issues like immigration are threatening to create systemic problems that will endure for the long after trump has returned to the lives of his golf courses and bankruptcy courts . sensible european leaders can be forgiven politely letting the uk down the road , so that it can shift its attention from threats to its longer-term cohesion and fundamental values .
acknowledging such thoroughgoing fallibility may seem paralyzing – and the current political mood certainly seems to reflect this . but recognizing fallibility may in fact be empowering , because it implies the prospect of improvement in both economics and politics itself . if the world becomes too complex and erratic for either markets or governments to achieve social goals , then new systems of checks and balances must be designed in a way that political decision-making can constrain economic incentives and vice versa . moreover , policymakers must rethink much of the ideological super-structure erected by market-based fundamentalist assumptions . if the world is characterized by ambiguity and unpredictability , then pre-crisis economic theories , rational expectations , efficient markets , and monetary neutrality must be revised .
a more effective approach would employ a broader array of tools , including debt restructuring . likewise , it would be difficult , but not impossible , for reducing the incentives generated by almost any country ’s fiscal regimes , for corporate leverage . at the same time , governments must work to reduce existing debt – and deficient global demand to which it contributes . nor can austerity suffice , because it would require countries to make such large fiscal adjustments – 5 % of gdp , in spain ’s case – that citizens will presumably resist , as the greeks have done . it is simply not feasible for the most highly leveraged governments to grow their way out of debt .
third , inequitable pay and incentive structures are bad for business . tech entrepreneurs might tell their investors that they want a change in the world , but many are intoxicated by the idea that the world will be better off selling their businesses to the highest bidder . third , inequitable pay and incentive structures are bad for business . yet ceos from silicon valley are no more robin hoods , either . much has been written about the extraordinary bonuses paid to investment bankers during the height of the financial crisis .
likewise , khan ’s position in favor of gay marriage has made him a fatwa for apostasy from the fearsome female chief imam of the bradford mosque . one might say that no less could possibly be expected of a labour leader with a bright future within the nationalist party of churchill . but one still must follow through with recognition that khan has not yielded on these issues to the facile communitarianism , common on the other side of the channel . moreover , he has never wavered on critical questions concerning legal and practical equality for women , or about expressing his dismay at the growing number of niqabs and hijabs now seen in london ’s avenue to prevent men , speak volumes of face to face . likewise , khan ’s position in favor of gay marriage has earned him a fatwa for apostasy from the fearsome chief imam of the bradford mosque .
in europe , regulatory changes like the psd2 payment directive ( psd2 ) have been decisive in opening the banking system ; and regulators like the united kingdom ’s financial conduct authority have for some time been running regulatory sandboxes to smooth the way for new entrants by helping them to meet standards . psd2 , often described as “ open banking , ” requires that banks offer their customer data to non-bank providers of payment centers and account for information services . perhaps the time to assess financial-stability risks from open banking has been in the consultation period before the directive has passed . even now , the fsb ’s list of contributors work shows that there was little to the european commission and key regulators in europe and north america . aggregators can then present a customer with an integrated view to their finances and offer add-on services .
consider finland , the nordic country , which had endowed with many trees for its small population . a neoclassical economist would argue that , given this , it should not export timber ; instead , it should add value by converting timber into paper or furniture – something finland , too . but all wood-related products represent barely 20 % of finland ’s exports . by contrast , a traditional development economist would argue that it should not export timber ; instead , it should add value by converting timber into paper or furniture – something finland ’s , too . some ideas are actually worse than wrong : they are castrating , because they interpret the world in a way that emphasizes secondary issues – say , the availability of raw materials – and blinds societies to higher-promise opportunities that can lie elsewhere .
deep decarbonization requires not natural gas and fuel-efficient vehicles , but zero-carbon electricity and electric vehicles charged on a zero-carbon electricity grid . deep decarbonization entails not natural gas and fuel-efficient cars , but zero-carbon electricity and electric vehicles charged on a zero-carbon electricity grid . we need to get to around 50 grams per kilowatt-hour by 2050 , rather than 500 grams per kilowatt-hour . this more profound transformation , in contrast to the low-hanging fruit eyed by too many policymakers today , offers the only feasible path to climate safety ( that is , staying below the 2ºc limit ) . by pursuing coal power to natural gas or more efficient gas-burning vehicles , we risk driving ourselves into the high-carbon trap .
rather than becoming agents of change , they often prevent change from occurring . the productive transformation that developing countries need is far easier to accomplish with support , rather than obstruction , of their respective conglomerates . ( indeed , south korea ’s large economic debate nowadays concerns whether the chaebols are stifling innovation by keeping their start-up competitors out of challenging them . ) so far , the productive transformation that developing countries need is far easier to achieve with the support of , rather than obstruction , their own conglomerates . but ensuring such support requires policies that nudge ( or even commercials ) conglomerates to export industries that can grow beyond homegrown limits , industries in which competition encourage market discipline that they lack due to dominating local markets .
what is iran doing in yemen , lebanon , iran , iraq , and , above all , syria ? how does it define its interests in these countries ? does it actually view itself , as many sunni arabs assert themselves as the protector of shia arabs ? working groups might be formed to try to build a shared narrative . at the same time , negotiations would have to cover up contemporary issues , including the tour d’horizon of the tail international hotspots .
domestically , china will be the first country that , owing to its sheer size and required gdp growth , is compelled to pursue a “ green ” economy . despite european illusions to the contrary , this will be decided in china , not the west . because china will be the ultimate market in the future , it will be a decisive player in determining not just what the us produces and consumes , but how . otherwise , china would quickly come to its “ limits to growth , ” ” ” with disastrous ecological and eventually political consequences . consider the shift from the traditional automobile to electric transportation .
first , the ecb ’s renewed bond purchases must articulate the clear intention of reducing sovereign interest rates to sustainable levels , which are at least another € 200 basis points below their july averages . a high-level german diplomat reportedly dismissed spain ’s target of 6.5-7 % interest rates recently on the grounds that spain had been borrowing at almost the same rates in the 1990 ’s . but that declaration , bizarrely , ignored spain ’s higher pre-euro inflation – thereby puzzling real and nominal rates and faster gdp growth . a sporadic program without such announced objectives is unlikely to work , and might even be counterproductive , because private investors might well claim even higher returns , because the ecb ’s growing holdings of greek debt would consider senior , augmenting their risk . for countries following agreed reform programs , the ecb should commit to bringing down interest rates to levels compatible with projected inflation and growth rates and announcing how long ( say , nine months ) this will continue .
but that rule succumbed rather quickly to violent money-demand shocks , even though friedman ’s widespread argument that a plausible commitment to low inflation requires favoring rules over discretion – remains very influential . inflation targeting was best known as the rule that instructed central banks to set – trying their best to attain – the target range for the annual rate of change for the consumer price index ( cpi ) . close inventories included targeting the price level in lieu of an inflation rate , together with targeting core inflation ( the cpi minus volatile food and energy prices ) . but that rule succumbed rather quickly to violent money-demand shocks , even though friedman ’s widespread argument – that a plausible commitment to low inflation requires favoring the rules over discretion – remains very influential . there were also proponents of more flexible inflation targeting , which held that it was fine to throw some weight to actual gdp growth in the short run so long as a clear longer-term target for cpi inflation remains .
because a firm ’s labor costs are someone else ’s labor income and demand , what is individually rational for a single firm is destructive in its aggregate . the implication is that the free markets do not generate enough final demand . firms in advanced economies are now cutting jobs , owing to inadequate final demand that has resulted in excess capacity and uncertainty about future demand . but cutting jobs weakens the final demand further , as it reduces labor incomes and increases inequality . in the us , for example , slashing labor costs sharply reduces the labor-force participation rate on gdp .
meanwhile , employment at the amazon grew by only 47 % over the last year , to 341,000 people . but with amazon jobs concentrated in california , texas , and washington , the geography of these job categories is very different from what they are replaced . as with the geographic relocation of america ’s manufacturing jobs , taa is not the solution to this type of ailment . after all , whereas taa targets individuals directly impacted with foreign competition ; much of the contest facing local economies comes not from one of abroad , and many jobs being lost are not in industries that are directly affected by outside competition , but in the surrounding economy . nor do import tariffs help those left unemployed by the bankruptcy of blockbuster youtube , borders books , compusa , circuit city , payless , or virgin megastores .
following this spectacular russia ’s failure so far , however , putin ’s “ managed democracy ” looks anachronistic , confronting the threat of genuine democracy in his neighbor to spread to russia . yanukovych stands for a truly oligarchic state of putin ’s defeat at home , with yanukovych accusing yushchenko of selling ukrainian companies to russian corporations . for the first time , ukrainians have cast their little-seen complex vis-à-vis russians overboard . president putin ’s behavior is probably best explained to his dislike of democracy . moreover , if ukraine ’s president becomes an international pariah , he can only turn to russia , as is the case with chairman aleksandr lukashenko in belarus .
to be sure , agricultural development can have serious economy-wide pitfalls , which must be navigated carefully . for example , as technology-driven productivity gains reduce the number of workers that are needed on farms , job-boosting strategies in other parts of the value chain , and managing migration to cities , become an even more vital proposition . fortunately , africa ’s large population of increasingly well-educated young people , who are largely uninterested in the wrenching work of subsistence farming , is well-placed to fill the higher-value-added jobs that emerge across and around the agricultural sector . with africa ’s rural population having already largely underemployed , there is little time to shed in implementing such strategies . another potential pitfall from farm development is ecological damage , including land degradation , soil nutrient mining , excessive water use , and water pollution .
for many an agreement by ’s critics , particularly those within the environment , these compromises have made the lima agreement an excessively “ bottom-up ” agreement . such critics worry that it will force it to persuade countries to cut emissions further when it becomes clear that its collective efforts will be inadequate , and that it may even allow some countries to use irregular accounting methods . but that overlooks the lima deal with its greatest accomplishment : it will end the world ’s longstanding divisions in only two kinds of countries , the developed and developing . it almost certainly will not have done that ; it almost certainly will not . countries have too much latitude to make whatever commitments they want , relatively unconstrained by a common set of “ top-down ” rules imposed by the paris accord .
ahn ’s most obvious merits are his personal history of overcoming severe challenges and his modest demeanor . indeed , ahn cheol-soo , a successful entrepreneur turned pro-reform professor at seoul national university and the leading backer of the city ’s new mayor , has now rocked south korean politics by dropping wide hints that he might still be a presidential nominee . ahn ’s most apparent merits are his personal history of overcoming severe challenges and his modest demeanor . still , recent polls are showing a majority for voters distrust both the incumbent government and the ruling party . indeed , ahn cheol-soo , a successful entrepreneur turned pro-reform professor at seoul national university and the leading backer of the city ’s new mayor , has now rocked south korean politics by shedding wide hints that he might be a presidential nominee .
the reality is that there simply are not enough resources to do all that . can we determine the economic value of protecting the natural world ? some people will balk at the idea of putting a price tag on biodiversity , viewing its protection as an obvious imperative . but they would , no doubt , agree that preventing human death and misery , while providing the right to food , water , and education to all , is vital . dhaka – we not only share the planet with a host of other species , including plant , animals , and even microbes ; we , too , depend on it for our very survival .
· because inflation remains low across much of the region , monetary policy should remain supportive of growth in case of downside risks materialize . and , elsewhere in the region , the small pacific islands , in particular , are increasing vulnerability to the impact of climate change . this shifting landscape is calling for bold action on several fronts . while the response will certainly need to be tailored to individual countries ’s particular circumstances , some recommendations could be helpful for most countries : · because inflation remains low across much of the region , monetary policy should remain supportive of growth in case of downside risk materialize .
it wishes to remain asia ’s sole standing country with an enduring stature , an attitude that places it at odds with india . if the brics countries , as a pressure group on international relations , need to agree on what they trust to be attainable in their political and economic goals . for example , they are generally unified in their frustrations with – but not in their proposed response to – the dollar ’s status as the world ’s reserve currency . the brics ’ concept represents , first and foremost , its members ’ desire to make the global order more plural . indeed , the most consequential bilateral relationship every brics country is with the united states .
and , third , there has been the “ deconstructionism ” ” ” of the post-nietzscheans . by historicizing the “ will to truth ” ( michel foucault ) , putting truth “ in quotation ” marks ” ( jacques derrida ) , separating his signs from his referent ( louis althusser ) , and miring clearly in the miasma of charts and graphs ( claude lévi-strauss ) , or tying it in borromean knots ( jacques lacan ) , they probably cossy the very loss in the us with a simple , robust , and irreversible truth . the web then became a mob , a free-for-all where everybody shows armed around his or her own personal opinions , convictions , and truths . i then targeted the responsibility of the internet and the us ( google , apple , facebook , and amazon ) for the following type of sequence of events : my own book i use the media to engage with one of another , his or his own personal opinions , convictions , and the truth . first , an almost infinite amount of speech is set free from digital democracy .
solna , sweden , elite sports and doping have long been deeply intertwined . but a wide-scale report by the world anti-doping agency ( wada ) on russia ’s far-reaching state-sponsored doping program released shortly before this year , ’s summer olympic games in rio de janeiro brought it to the forefront of the public perception . we should take this as an opportunity to redouble our efforts to end this deeply unhealthy practice – and to save elite sports . reaching the elite level in sports demands tremendous amount of hard work , dedication and focus . by definition , few succeed , but those who may enjoy great personal and financial rewards .
berlin – with mosul retaking mosul in northern iraq , the islamic state ( isis ) might soon be a thing of the past . but defeating isis and the demise of its self-proclaimed iraqi-syrian caliphate will not bring peace to the middle east or even an end to the syrian tragedy . rather , it will likely open a new chapter in the region ’s bloody and chaotic history , one no less dangerous than previous chapters since the fall of the ottoman empire in the end of world war i. after all , it will likely open a new chapter in the region ’s bloody and chaotic history , one of which is no less dangerous than previous chapters since the fall of the ottoman empire at the end of world war i. the continuation of that violent pattern appears almost certain , because the region remains unable to resolve internal conflicts on its own or to forge anything like a resilient framework for peace . instead , it remains stuck in somewhere between the nineteenth and twentieth centuries .
that seems clearly wrong : numerous expert estimates that built-in redundancy pays off unless one assigns unrealistically low probabilities to disruptive events . even a rapid response is more effective when key networks and systems – particularly the electricity grid – become resilient . that leads to a second , more plausible explanation , one that is both psychological and behavioral in character . why are we tends to underinvest in our economies ’ resilience to our key systems ? one argument is that redundancy looks like waste in ordinary times , with its cost-benefit calculations ruling out a higher-level investment .
right prior to the fed acted , india ’s reserve-holding bank hiked its benchmark short-term interest rate by 25 basis points , to 6.25 % , to fight inflation , with china ’s central bank now indicating that it might raise interest rates further . in october , the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) , responding to the twin threats of inflation and asset bubbles , raised its one-year deposit and lending rate by 25 basis points , to 2.5 % and 5.56 % , respectively , respectively , the first increases since 2007 . in the west , concerns about the impact of chinese growth triggered a fearful sell-off in markets . meanwhile , developing countries , by contrast , are moving in the opposite direction . in brazil , ten-year interest rates remain near 11 % .
fewer fragmented industries , too , lobby better . traditionally , contracts generators in china are scattered and fiercely competitive . they have little to say over domestic and international regulations . larger firms are more capable of pooling resources for research and development that hold the key to china ’s aspirations to climb the value ladder . producers in jiangsu , for example , have been forced to adapt steadily to fickle product-safety and environmental standards in the export markets .
that may have been true of china one day ; it is no longer true today . no question , the country would be better off with a more flexible exchange rate , which removed one-way bets on speculators , acting as an economic shock absorber . but the literature on “ exit strategies ” ” ” ” itself , on how to replace the more exchange-rate peg with a more flexible exchange rate , makes clear that a moment when china could have navigated that transition , at one point , had now gone smoothly . this puts chinese policymakers ’ position on an iranian tourist asking for directions to dublin , and is reported to be told , “ well , sir , if you were you , i would n’t start from here . ” countries can exit pegged exchange rates smoothly only when there is confidence in the us economy , encouraging the belief that a more flexible exchange rate can fully appreciate as well as weakening .
there are many ways to curbing the big banks ’ excesses . a strong version of the so-called volcker rule ( designed to force government-insured banks to revert to their core lending mission ) might work . the dodd-frank legislation was intended not to ban derivatives , but just to bar implicit government guarantees , subsidized by taxpayers ( recall the $ 180 billion aig bailout ? ) , which are not a natural or inevitable byproduct of the lending capacity . the senate bill ’s provision of derivatives is a good litmus test : the obama administration and the fed , in opposing such restrictions , have shown clearly lined up against the sidelines of the big banks . but the american government would bail out all the way .
if finalized , the imf program could trigger further aid packages by the world bank and other international donors . egypt ’s economy faces continued risks , owing to capital flight , rising inflation , unemployment , and populist policies . should the aids arrives , egypt could start addressing some of its funding problems , but there is still a need for a long-term strategy to spur sustainable growth . even with the availability of external finance , egyptian leaders must look for ways to engage the private sector in reviving the country ’s economy . unfortunately , the latest political incident involving the democracy-promotion activities of american ngos has chilled bilateral relations , threatening the $ 1.3 billion in military aid that egypt receives annually from the united states .
cafeteria ( now more inviting and more frequented in the free meal advent ) or the plug on the plug & to play startup accelerator , proximity matters . cafeteria ( now more inviting and more frequented with the free food advent ) or the halls of the plug & play startup accelerator , proximity matters . being physically present at work means taking direct contact with other sharp and creative brains . and the benefits of human contact and interaction are why salespeople still call on instead of using skype , and why meetup ( which supports face-to-face meetings ’ organizers ; i am on a company ’s board ) is changing lives in ways that twitter and facebook rarely do . interestingly , i heard this point at the tpp stream “ unconference ” in phuket , thailand , where a few hundred people flew thousands of miles to meet to confront face-saving ways and strengthen working relationships . to be sure , those who favor working at home cite not only the costs and time of commuting , but also the proliferation of sessions – far too much culture , perhaps – and steady stream of communication that simply interrupts their work rather than enhancing it .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime ; but it does not all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world .
in the near future , 3d printing could further reduce the need to ship goods across long distances . if trade in global goods peaked in proportion to global gdp , then it will be harder for poor countries in africa , latin america , and asia to flourish by becoming the world ’s next workshops . quality of talent , infrastructure , energy cost , and the market ’s speed promises to take more weight in such choices . while global goods trade has stalled and cross-border financial flows have fallen sharply since 2007 , the flows of digital information have surged : cross-border bandwidth has grown 45-fold over the previous decade , circulating ideas , intellectual content , and innovation worldwide . but there is no downward pressure on globalization alone . in fact , if trade in global goods peaked relative to global gdp , flows of digital information would be harder for poor countries in africa , latin america , and asia to grow by becoming the world ’s next workshops .
in other respects , however , globalization with chinese characteristics will differ from the way we know it . in 2002 , china signed the un framework convention on comprehensive economic cooperation with the association of southeast asian nations ( asean ) . comparing standard post-world war ii practice , china relies more on bilateral and regional trade agreements , and fewer on multilateral negotiating rounds . xi and his circle obviously will be reluctant to dismantle the global trading system . as xi put it in davos in 2017 , the us is committed to expand its open global economy .
within singh ’s congress party , the pressure will mount to match economic-reform initiatives with “ pro-poor ” programs . the us congress may rightly take credit for the most far-reaching such a program , the mahatma gandhi national rural employment guarantee scheme , which assures one member in every poor rural family every year of a paid employment . with his 20-year record of accomplishment to show the public , singh has a better case than most can be trusted on the part of voters when he says that he is acting in his long-term interest . all policymakers in democracies think in the short term ; few have time horizons that expand beyond the next election . part of singh ’s problem is that decisions that hurt voters ( higher diesel prices , a fewer subsidized cooking-gas-cylinders , ) have an immediate impact , whereas gains from foreign investment take years to become apparent .
the alternative is the one urged by sarkozy and banque de france : the purchases of european banks of their countries ’ government bonds . the immediate interests of banks are to adjust to new capital requirements and restore their balance sheets to the financial health system , which implies that they will once again use the ecb money in ways that will be able to meet this objective most cost-effectively . so , for example , if they use the cash to continue financing the private sector , they will ensure that loans go to creditworthy patrons . this means that , like the credit provided by italian and spanish banks in the past few months , most of the new cash will be lent locally to safe households and big established firms . that will enable bank markets to continue functioning , but it is unlikely to inject the type of stimulus that european economies now require .
turkey has an important role to play in its own region and the world , one undermined by its continuing denial of the armenian genocide . but symbolic measures , while important , do not suffice to bring about real progress . turkey ’s government must demonstrate its commitment to ensure that its laws and institutions effectively protect the human rights of all of its citizens . in doing so , it would improve its own standing within europe and beyond . its stance on the genocide is inconsistent with its efforts to cultivate a reputation as an honest , reliable partner .
yet , with the exception of costa rica ’s foreign-investment promotion agency , the cinde modeled after ida-ireland initiative , none of latin america ’s fdi promotion agencies has succeeded in embracing best practices . yet , with the exception of costa rica ’s foreign-investment promotion agency , the cinde modeled after ida-iran , none of latin america ’s fdi promotion agencies has succeeded in adopting best practices . so they want to talk to private-sector experts who understand their companies ’ technological and financial needs in their companies or sectors . moreover , despite the failures of such institutional arrangements in the past , many promote foreign and domestic investment . it is for this reason that fdi must be promoted separately from domestic investment and exports .
with the paris climate agreement close to a year ago , the transformation of global fossil-fuel markets is only a matter of time . firms with large fossil-fuel portfolios like coal will soon face severe uncertainty surrounding stranded assets , and investors may be changing their risk assessments accordingly . large mining companies can do well to prepare for this shift by moving from fossil fuels to other materials – like iron ore , copper , bauxite , cobalt , scarce elements of earth , and lithium – and other mineral fertilizers that will be needed in large quantities to meet the sdgs ’ targets for global hunger eradication . phasing out coal during times of latent overproduction might even do some good . third , the world needs better ways to assess mining ’s ecological risks .
he has also obtained the first x-ray patterns of partly oriented samples of dna . but the observable diffraction pattern -- the intensities and individual reflections positions -- represents only about half the data needed to deduce the diffracting structure . it gives the amplitude in the mathematical terms , but not the phases – that is , the stages in an oscillatory motion -- without which no atomic positions could determine . max perutz , a chemistry graduate from vienna , arrived in cambridge in 1935 to work as a graduate student in bernal . the following year , he received excellent hemoglobin crystals and soon produced the best x-ray patterns to date .
the endgame to determine europe ’s definitive shape is underway . it began with the convention ’s publication of the praesidium of the convention on the future of europe ’s future of the eu ’s first sixteen articles of “ treaty to establish a constitution for europe . ” the text largely replicates the structure of convention chairman valery giscard d’estaing ’s “ skeleton ” constitution , presented last november and the conclusions reached by the convention ’s working groups . such fidelity has not held for economics . the key word here , then , is largely in play .
fueled by population growth and urbanization , demand is outstripping supply . in africa , where the authorities ’ infrastructure-investment gap totals $ 68-108 billion a year , firms are paying more to do business . in nigeria , more than three-quarters of firms experience continued electrical outages , costing them more than 15 % of their annual sales , on average . likewise , while all firms need data for investment and operational decision-making , official emerging-economy statistics are not always reliable and often skewed in us political agendas . in pakistan , for example , a 2008 census scheduled for 2008 was delayed for nine years and beset by trouble when it finally run .
russia today has fewer press freedom , and more journalists , media workers , and bloggers outside bars than at any time since the soviet union ’s implosion in 1991 . in crimea and chechnya , even the most basic media protections are non-existent . the bbc media group ’s editorial team suffered a similar fate in 2016 . each of these outlets distinguished their coverage of sensitive stories – from the conflict in ukraine to high-level corruption . nor do the closures spared leading regional outlets like siberian broadcastertv-2 or kaliningrad ’s top independent-minded weekly newspaper , novye kolesa .
this month , thousands gathered for the un ’s climate change conference in bonn , germany , to ratchet up global ambition in the fight against climate change . following the successful paris climate agreement two years ago , expectations for continued progress and continued collaboration are high . today , countries , citizens , and an increasing number of businesses worldwide are finally taking action . one more promising recent initiatives is the un ’s carbon pricing coalition ( cplc ) , which brings 30 governments together and more than 180 companies and strategic partners to put the value of carbon dioxide emissions below zero . the idea is simple : if we are to fulfill the paris accord ’s target of limiting the global mean temperature increase to well below 2 ° celsius above preindustrial levels , ideally to 1.5 º celsius above preindustrial levels , we must cut emissions dramatically .
once greece continues , runs on bank deposits are likely to follow in spain and italy . at that point , the only thing still stands between a eurozone mired in financial chaos and financial chaos will be the ecb , which could buy its government bonds and fund bank runs . the scale of such an operation would be enormous , exposing the ecb to enormous credit risks . there is nothing that stopping spanish and italian depositors from wiring their euros from their local bank holdings to one in switzerland , norway , or new york . but essentially it might step in – provided that northern europe allowed .
political leaders in thailand and malaysia and elsewhere in the region frequently tout the model pioneered by singapore ’s founder and longtime leader lee kuan yew , who died earlier this month . yes , lee ’s system enabled him to remain in power for 31 years , using the civilian – not criminal – courts to harry his opponents . but , more important , lee also relied on elements of democratic contestation to assure that meritocracy triumphed over patronage . yet the path on which both countries embarked was not lee on a path . here , it seems clear that unmo ’s political interests were granted to dictate that the country of the core opposition leader should be tried on charges that no true democracy that embraces the rule of law would even consider leveling , and convicted on evidence that no genuinely independent tribunal would accept .
are all of his supporters “ crazies , ” ” ” ” as us senator john mccain , perhaps unwisely called them ? trump ’s critics argue that he is playing for the basest instincts of disaffected voters who hate foreigners ( especially mexicans ) , mistrust bankers ( or anyone with a college education for that matter ) , and still can not get over the ballot box for a president whose father was a black . now , all that may be as if it were . but , in the democratic world , trump is part of a wider phenomenon . are all of his supporters “ crazies , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” as us senator john mccain , perhaps unwisely , calling them his way ? trump , in the comedian jean stewart ’s words , is “ america ’s id , ” ” ” ” or at least a large number of mostly white , mostly small-town americans .
in europe , too , the picture is mixed . the former transition countries – greece , ireland , and spain – remain mired in recession and their gdps will continue to shrink . spain ’s unemployment rate , one of europe ’s large economies , has sky-rocked to 20 % , and still shows no sign of improvement . the spanish economy contracted by 3.6 % in 2009 , and is expected to shrink by 0.4 % this year . for finland , britain , and italy , a below-average trend increase is also expected .
malmö – “ everyone knows ” ” that you should drink the eight water glasses daily . a healthy living now means having water bottled water bottles with us , sipping at all times , attempting to drinking our daily quota to ensure that we stay hydrated and healthy . sure , drinking this much does not feel comfortable , but powerade offers this sage attorney : “ you might be able to train your gut to tolerate more fluid if you build your fluid intake gradually . ” after all , that is the advice of multitude of health writers , not to mention authorities like britain ’s national health service . sure , drinking this much does not feel comfortable , but powerade does offer this sage attorney ’s job : “ you might be able to train your gut to tolerate more fluid if you build your fluid intake gradually .
can the united states still afford a suburban lifestyle , with sprawling homes in far-flung communities requiring long-distance automobile commutes ? can they be allowed to emit more carbon dioxide , as they have in the past ? can the united states still afford a suburban lifestyle , with sprawling homes in far-flung communities that require long-distance automobile commutes ? they , too , are facing enormous uncertainties . what kinds of power powerhouses will be acceptable in the future ?
currently , the alphabet nonprofit soup of nonprofit and multilateral agencies tackles elements of the challenge . these include independent groups like refugees from international ( ir ) and médecins sans frontières ( msf ) . weak mandates , insufficient finance , disorganized structures , and the absence of the global system of governance have weakened intergovernmental agencies ’ ability to assert authority in the name of the most vulnerable . as i argue in germany this week , the g20 leaders meeting in hamburg on july 7-8 have an opportunity to reshape a system of migration governance with proactive protectionist policies that would accentuate people ’s trust in international leadership . while past summits have produced little more than talking points , the prospect of action is better this time , given that the talks are going on in europe , where the impact of the migration crisis was felt deeply .
there is every reason to believe that this pace of overall productivity growth will continue for decades to come . until the late 1950s , there were roughly the world ’s 2000 computers , and processing power an average of 10,000 machinery per second . more than a generation ago , intel ’s co ₂ founder gordon moore observed that improvements in semiconductor fabrication allow for a doubling of the density of the transistors on a chip every eighteen months . the scale of the investment required to make what is known as “ moore ’s law ” hold has grown exponentially along with the density of the transistors and circuits , but “ moore ’s law ” remains in force , with engineers seeing no immediate barriers that will bring the process of improvement to a halt anytime soon . there are now some 300 million computers around the world with processing power averaging several hundred million instructions per second -- the four _ fold increase in raw automated computational power , an average annual growth rate of just over 56 % !
these multidimensional , scalable interventions help to bridge gaps in developing regions . by targeting schools as hubs for health-care education and shape students ’ health ambassadors for their families and friends , we can reach an even larger number of people in xinjiang ’s nomadic communities . but neither corporations nor governments can do that on their own . xinjiang means “ new frontier , ” ” ” and right now ; the us is at the cutting edge of the new frontier in delivering sustainable health-care solutions to communities where scarce resources and infrastructure constrain access to health care . these multidimensional , scalable interventions help to bridge gaps in developing regions .
fortunately , he still has the time , with many previous us presidents setting a precedent for bold us diplomacy during their final months in the white house . at the end of 1988 , ronald reagan acknowledged the palestine liberation organization , and authorized the state department to start substantive dialogue ” with plo leaders . and , starting with the annapolis conference at the end of 2007 , george w. bush mediated a series of negotiations between abbas and israeli prime minister ehud olmert . now , it is obama ’s turn and should push for a un security council resolution that establishes new parameters for the future peace process and replaces un security council resolution 242 that dates back to the 1967 six six-day war between israel and egypt , jordan , and syria . by the end of 2000 , bill clinton had made his parameters for a future framework of peace .
loughner ’s shooting of 19 people in 2011 , including the congresswoman gabrielle giffords , attracted global attention , as did court-ordered evaluation of his mental competency . similarly , cho a history of mental illness has been widely discussed . though mass shootings are extraordinarily rare even in the us , social-media coverage continually reinforces negative perceptions at home and abroad . in this manner , the us may well be exporting the stigma to the rest of the world . indeed , on the other side of the world , a paper by the australian national daily cited giffords 160 times in the six months after the shootings , compared to just one statement in the previous 12 months .
for europe , it represents a unique opportunity to promote the rule of law , transparency , free trade , and good governance beyond its borders . more important , successful reform in ukraine is making a positive contribution to russia . ukraine is a large country , with ample human capital , natural resources , and growth potential in a wide range of sectors . still , ukraine ’s economy has shrunk by a factor of two-thirds ( in dollar terms ) since 2006 , making it the poorest country in europe . it is the key front in a global confrontation between democracy and autocracy .
but this strategy carries serious risks that , ultimately , will make it unworkable . realigning relative prices would require an internal devaluation that could fuel social and political instability in the weaker countries . rather , it should resemble the bretton woods system , under which countries could exit and re-enter after bolstering competitiveness through austerity and reform . at one extreme lies the notion that europe can not function like the dollar , given that the euro is not a federalized nation-state . civil unrest and the rise of neo-nazi parties in europe ’s south exemplify these dangers , threatening the very purpose of european integration .
economists disagree about when , under what circumstances , and in what order governments should move beyond those of the first two items on the checklist . should they employ unemployed workers either directly , or , indirectly , by bringing forward expenditures or expanding the scale of the government ’s programs ? the problem comes when expansionary monetary policy through standard liquidity-provision operations and central-bank guarantees of an orderly supply of markets prove insufficient . should they try to raise monetary velocity by selling bonds thereby boosting short-term interest rates ? should they explicitly guarantee large financial institutions ’ liabilities and/or asset classes ?
the uk ministers responsible for the talks – a group better known for their dogmatism and personal ambition than their competence – has so far managed to secure agreement in one key area : following the march 2019 deadline , a two-year transition period is beginning . there is no example anywhere in the world where this is not true . but not even that agreement is set in stone , because it rests on whether negotiators will be able to first agree on what to do about the border between the people ’s republic of ireland and northern ireland as soon as the uk leaves the customs union . you can be in a frictionless customs union or outside of the customs union with a border . it also includes the promise of leaving the eu ’s single market and customs union .
given the eurozone ’s fragmented nature , that mandate probably should still be centered on price stability . but it should also recognize that the current definition of price stability – “ below , but close to , 2 % inflation over the medium term ” – is too narrow . a broader definition is required , according to which the ecb pursues a symmetric 2 % inflation target , as part of a 1.5-2.5 % band over a longer-run time horizon . the ecb needs a more realistic and flexible mandate . the eurozone is also deeply fragmented financially , lacks a common capital market , a unifying safe asset , or macroeconomic stabilization mechanism .
when it comes to wishing for peace in the middle east – practically the new year of tradition ­ – one needs careful attention . the israel-palestine conflict has lasted far too long , for the time being . so many hopes have vanished in the bitter setback of so many negotiations . but the us has a yearning for the middle east – one that , while perhaps not bringing peace , can create one of peace ’s preconditions : goodwill . israel and palestine should jointly bid for and be awarded , the 2018 soccer world cup .
so the real question is how to get to the point where iraq has a police force and an army that can be trusted to uphold law in the same way that order is heading . in other areas , sharia law is introduced by force . a large number of ground needs to be covered in order to get anywhere near the country . notwithstanding the courage of those many iraqis who join either an army or a police force , no one should be surprised if some have motives that are less than pure . in northern iraq , old scores are settled , and de facto ethnic segregation is set in areas like irbil , which were traditionally diverse .
the differences between the demonstrations in madrid and warsaw suggest that the distinction between old and new europe remains valid , if not in the way that rumsfeld meant . of course , it would be inaccurate to oppose a thriving poland to a collapsing spain . in view of europe ’s overall crisis , even poland ’s economy is no longer booming . its unemployment rate hovers around 10 % ( still far less than in the spanish rate ) , and annual gdp growth is around 1 % ( spain ’s growth rate is negative ) . but the moods in both countries , as well as their perceptions of europe and its role in it , contrast starkly .
berlin – the united kingdom ’s voters ’ decision to “ the brexit ” of the european union is no example of the british black humor that i loved . it ’s not un“ monty python python ’s flying circus , ” a yes , prime minister , ” ” or “ fawlty towers ” ; it ’s ’s just boris , michael , and nigel farage , and their catastrophic political reality shows . given the uk ’s economic , political , and military significance , brexit will leave a gaping lackey of the eu . at present , the same can not be said of the uk . but it will not devalue europe , either .
but , for both parties , as well as external powers , the events of 1948 and what has followed – the occupation since the 1967 borders of historic palestine – represents a tragic failure . israel is most at fault for that failure , owing to its continued military occupation and illegal settlements . despite giving lip service to peace , the israeli army ’s refusal to let the occupied territories end up in a direct contrast to what the preamble to united nations security council resolution 242 has described as the “ inadmissible take of land by force . ” yet the international community , the palestinians , and arabs all bear responsibility as well , if at different levels . as israel ’s state celebrates its 60th birthday , palestinians remember the nakbeh , or face “ catastrophe ” – their story of dispossession , occupation , and statelessness .
the government ’s ability to offer such insurance on a scale sufficient to make it costless is one reason to favor a public scheme over private insurers . moreover , recession insurance might counter fiscal policy , impose no costs on governments , for as long as it stimulates confidence , then avoids the risks that they can be insured against . tantalizingly , they tell us that doing this would create “ a market-based vision for future output , ” and the odds of severe shocks , ” although they do not explain how the market would be structured . reducing uncertainty might augment , or even be superior to , a fiscal stimulus programs because it would address the root cause of the un ’s unwillingness to spend . blanchard and his colleagues point out that if banks could always condition loans to firms on their purchases of recession insurance , which might help credit markets function better , tackling the serious problem underlying crises .
so far , enforcement has failed , owing to flaws in the eurozone ’s fundamentals . first , fiscal and external-account balances are to be held in check to ensure financial stability and sustain the common currency . the greek saga shows that this system can not control destabilizing imbalances fast enough to ward off major crises . second , removing imbalances is the responsibility of national governments , within the framework of a rescue regime arranged by supranational authorities – the european commission and the european central bank – in collaboration with the european council , which in turn represents national governments . the imbalances are not solely the result of irresponsible policies ; they are just the result of them .
china ’s downturn seems sudden ; after all , its exports surged by double-digit rates each month until may . more specifically , china ’s “ two systems ” systems have enabled its exports to bonded stores in hong kong to scramble for pad trade statistics . as a result , its trade surplus has continued to plummet , to $ 20.4 billion , fueling growing concern about the chinese slowdown . in fact , while the chinese economy ’s true condition has long obscured , yet again , ever-tighter regulation of activities like the speculative trading of renminbi masquerading as trade payments . predictably , china ’s “ two systems ” have enabled its exports to bonded stores in hong kong to be used to pad trade statistics .
those are not mutually exclusive goals , especially when business leaders adhere to newly articulated principles for sustainable investment and long-term engagement . after all , an m & a is only the first step on the long road . as chinese firms invest overseas – as mine for now in latin america shows , they have a responsibility not just to invest wisely and sustainably to the sake of their companies – to integrate their strategies with china ’s national investment priorities . for most equity investors , the value of any project will depend on a lot of effective post-investment management in the us . clear rights and obligations , therefore , must work carefully when investment begins , something that was all but absent in the past .
to make a proactive contribution to peace means giving japan its own share of responsibility for assuring a security that supports global prosperity and stability . and our embrace of our global responsibilities extends to japan 's self-defense forces . working alongside countries with which we share our common values and interests , we will safeguard and cultivate international public goods , ranging from space and cyberspace to the skies and high seas . and our embrace of our global responsibilities extends to japan 's self-defense forces ( sdf ) . members of the self-defense forces ( sdf ) have displayed exemplary cooperation with the american and australian armed forces in the wake of the 2011 great east japan earthquake , and have earned deep appreciation and respect everywhere that they have deployed , including haiti , indonesia , and , most recently , the philippines .
how long can this arab league position be sustained with peace talks go nowhere ? another big question for israel is whether it can accept the consequences if a two-state solution disappears entirely from the agenda . how can israel ’s preferred palestinian leaders , abbas and pa prime minister salam fayyad , be left to negotiate any credible capacity to negotiate unless talks can start until talks , as israel insists , retreat on its minimal status as a settlement freeze in the occupied territories ? israel , as the founding father david ben-gurion has warned , may be the jewish state ; it can be a democratic state , and it can be a state occupying the whole of historic israel ; but it can not be all three . for all that israel downplays its relevance , the 2002 arab peace initiative still offers the critically important agreement : full normalization of relations by the entire arab world in exchange for a comprehensive peace settlement .
but , even with favorable world markets , we failed to manage the problem of poverty in which millions of russians still live . nor was it the crisis that upended corruption , which affects the officialdom on all levels of society , or that has caused russia to miss out on the democratic dynamic . we need a democratic , competitive environment , initiative at all levels , an active civil society , and genuine public control . i am convinced that russia ’s troubles all lurk on politics . we need a democratic , competitive , initiative at all levels ; an active civil society ; and genuine public control .
the first – and more desirable – is for the ecb to assess realistically greece ’s lack of solvency , and so stop providing ela funds to its banking system . but allowing greece to default , and continuing to remain in the eurozone , is not an option : it would signal that other eurozone countries might amass enormous debts , funded by the ecb without having any intention of being evaded . true , fiscal responsibility within the eurozone would be fatally undermined . but allowing greece to default , and continuing to remain in the eurozone , is not an option : it would plunge the country into economic , social , and political instability ; and there would doubtless be serious repercussions beyond poland ’s borders . in my judgment , there are only two viable options , which would be fatally undermined .
this brings us to the second key lever for expanding affordable housing : the more cohesive and efficient construction industries . as it stands , the housing-construction industry is highly fragmented , impedes its ability to take advantage of economies of scale , and builders often rely largely on the same techniques they used 50 years ago . by standardizing design elements like ceiling heights , fixtures , and flooring , construction companies can cut costs and raise productivity , as workers gain experience with repetitive tasks . further savings are possible through industrial approaches , such as utilities ’ components – such as wall street and flooring slabs – that are built upon offsite . for example , china imposes the idle-land tax on formerly public lands if its owners will fail to initiate a year ’s development process .
encouragingly , developing-country governments have become increasingly demanding a hpv vaccine . this makes sense : of 266,000 women dying from cervical cancer every year – an average of one every two minutes , covering 85 % in developing countries . for many of these countries , a hpv vaccine is not just an effective solution , one that prevents 1,500 deaths per 100,000 vaccinated ; it is often the only solution , given that the poorest countries lack the capacity to offer screening or treatment for cervical cancer . this is one reason why cancer experts , government officials , private-sector leaders , and civil-society representatives met a couple of weeks ago , in addis ababa , for the tenth stop whistle-blowers , breast , and prostate cancer at the africa conference . if left unchecked , that figure is expected to rise to 416,000 by 2035 , over-taking maternal deaths .
washington , dc – brazil ’s ongoing corruption investigations have exposed a tangled web of illicit relationships among private firms , government bureaucrats , and elected politicians . the ensuing corruption scandals have already hit the commanding heights of brazilian society . even former president luiz inácio lula da silva is now under impeachment . the drama , meanwhile , has taken his toll on the brazilian economy . several high-level politicians and corporate owners and executives have been prosecuted and imprisoned .
some societies may decide that it is better to be red rather than dead . most countries rely far too little on command and control , and deliver far too little incentives for patients and providers to make efficient choices . this raises the long-term well with everyone in the world , but is exacerbated by short-term inequalities and frictions . i am not arguing against health-care capitalism , but warnings that support will become fragile , far more so than in , say , globalization today . nevertheless , one remains to be seen if health-care pressures ultimately will trigger the current trend toward free ( and freer ) market capitalism to reverse itself , with a very large slice of the economy reverting to that more socialist system .
cambridge – the nineteenth-century physicist heinrich hertz once described his feeling that james clerk maxwell ’s equations depicting fundamentals of electricity and magnetism , “ “ have an independent existence and intelligence of their own making that they are wiser to recognize that they are even than their discoverers , that we get more out than originally inrers , that we get more out than they have . ” not long after , albert einstein called niels bohr ’s atomic model “ the top form of musicality in the sphere of thought . ” more recently , the late nobel laureate richard feynman describes his discovery of the new laws of physics : “ you can identify the truth behind its beauty and simplicity . not long after , albert einstein called niels bohr ’s atomic model “ the highest form of musicality in the sphere of thought . ” similar sentiment is all but universal among modern physicists . wishful thinking could never produce working iphones , the plugging pictures of the pluto or atomic bombs .
in a 1991 paper , allan drazen and alberto alesina suggested that economic stabilization may be delayed because two contending groups are trapped in a war of attrition ; all understand that adjustment is needed but should be expected that the other party will bear the brunt of the cost . by delaying , both sides provide intelligence to the other group about their willingness to withstand the pain . why , with the clearly formulated alternatives on the table , did the government choose the predictably disastrous course of action , at such high cost ? there are three possibilities : ignorance and intention and strategic interactions . for one thing , let ’s start with the last .
a democratic , prosperous , and stable europe implies a far better and safer world for america . here , then , is where the fed comes in . by shifting its monetary-policy regime to target 4 % annual inflation , or 6 % of annual nominal gdp growth , the us would set in motion a rapid rebalancing within the eurozone . rather than see the 30 % euroappreciation that follows from the ecb ’s current monetary policy , german exporters would shout for us measures to prevent america ’s emergence as a competitive devaluation , ” ” ” ” ” finally pulled about moderate north-south inflation in the south , rather than the current grinding depression in the south . a world in which america has a proven track record of honoring the confidence that it is obliged to play the role of the global economic hegemon is a far better world for america than one that it is insecure .
bilateral engagement will prove to be one of obama ’s most significant foreign-policy legacies . and a group of 47 republican senators has wrote a letter to iran ’s leaders announcing that the next congress might not honor whatever the nuclear deal they reach with obama . another source of doubt about america ’s enduring influence lies in its continued need for multilateral engagement , and that always makes it more difficult than bilateral engagement . but ensuring that america can continue to lead in the twenty-first century will require a different kind of engagement . indeed , the challenge for us multilateral leadership is not only clearer and bolder rules , but also a proven willingness to shoulder the costs of these rules ’ power , whether by establishing safe zones to uphold “ the responsibility to protect ” civilians or to take concrete steps to reduce – and eventually eliminate – – – – – nuclear arsenals .
to be sure , maduro and his associates do not simply step down , because losing power would probably entail long prison terms in the united states for drug trafficking or the hague for crimes against humanity . caracas , venezuelan president nicolás maduro and his administration shattered their country . while stating the redeeming of the poor and trumpet their readiness to fight for their “ selfless ” bolivarian cause , they refuse international assistance , force venezuelans either to emigrate or suffer ( and , in many cases , die ) from severe shortages of food , pharmaceuticals , and medical supplies . destroying venezuela must urgently stop if its viability as a state and society are to reestablish itself . that requires a new government of unquestionable legitimacy , chosen through a free and fair presidential election ahead of this year , as dictated by the us constitution .
indeed , over the past 30 years , massive public investment and economic liberalization have spurred rapid urban growth in the coastal provinces . and now , china ’s leaders are increasingly taking that strategy inland , thereby making critical investments in physical and human capital . but the efficacy of such investments will depend on the sequence and rate of deployment , and on how skillfully tailored to every locality in inclusively embedded resources , needs and aspirations . four interrelated issues must be addressed . so far , china has largely adopted the “ field of dreams ” approach to urbanization : “ “ building it and comes through . ”
his bellicose behavior in 2013 , for example , worsened his relationships with china , south korea , and the united states has simultaneously ; and , in the recent crisis , all it has won amounts to a halt to mocking louisiana speaker broadcasts . if china really is distancing itself from north korea , kim jong-un ’s regime will be almost entirely isolated internationally . will kim respond to that isolation recklessly , by continuing to antagonize the south , or pragmatically , by becoming more flexible ? that is no easy question to kim . it is worth clear to kim now that his spin of provocations does not benefit his country .
only french prime minister manuel valls – the son of spanish immigrants – has emphasized the issue , referring to the “ social and ethnic apartheid ” ” ” ” ” that developed in his country . the need to address that outcome in france and throughout europe has become more important than ever , as rioting and criminality by young and underprivileged migrants matches the rise of far-right political parties . the statistics are puzzling and sometimes conflicting , but europe ’s current foreign-born population of some 33 million may grow by another 100 million migrants by mid-century . only french prime minister manuel valls – the son of spanish migrants – has emphasized the issue , referring to the “ social and ethnic apartheid ” ” ” ” that developed in his country . europeans can not afford an era of ethnic confrontation ; on the contrary , with their aging , shrinking populations , european countries badly need more immigrants .
countries where english is not the lingua franca ’s are especially susceptible to science , not because they lack academic excellence , but because english-language journals call the shots . as a result , the scale of research topics that many countries may make up their attention is limited and must struggle to retain their scientific talent . as english-language empirical-research journals solidify their hold on channels that determine whether and when a scientist ends up in a successful career , developing countries will need to invest heavily in their own data infrastructure to place domestic researchers on a more competitive land . this is particularly true in the middle east , where governments struggle to diversify their economies to make them more resilient . countries where english is not the lingua franca are especially susceptible to science , not because they lack academic excellence , but because english-language journals call the shots .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . at this week ’s international monetary fund-world bank spring meetings , malpass need to address such concerns head-on . he should be judged not by his past or through his links to the trump administration , but through his deliveries .
there are essentially two competing explanations . but what matters is the real interest rate , which is the difference between the market rate and the rate of inflation . larry summers has first proposed in the secular stagnation hypothesis . its key premise is that the equilibrium interest rate at which demand would rebalance supply currently falls well below the actual interest rate . this seems paradoxical , because interest rates are already near zero in most advanced economies .
few egyptian players would have been familiar to europeans who watched this game , but egypt played a much better , well-deserved way to win . but the most important lesson revealed by the africa cup is that successful nations are those that combine opportunities of globalization with strong domestic foundations . for their part , african players grumbled that their absence from europe reduced their commercial opportunities during the pivotal period of the league game . for the victors of the cup was not cameroon or cote d’ivoire , or any of the other african teams loaded with stellar players from european leagues , but egypt , which fielded just four players ( out of 23 ) playing in europe . by contrast , cameroon , which egypt beat in the final , featured just a single player from a home club and 20 from european clubs .
berlin – the world ’s task to address north korea ’s tsaber rattling is making no easier choice than to confront the impoverished and effectively defeated country . the genius of the habsburg empire ’s prince klemens von metternich in framing a new international order after the napoleonic wars was the fact that he did not push a defeated france into a corner . by contrast , as henry kissinger famously argued , victors in world war i could neither deter a defeated germany nor offer an incentive for acceptance of the treaty of versailles . on the contrary , it is in such circumstances that calm foresight is the most necessary . though metternich has sought to deter any possible french resurgence , he has revived france ’s prewar frontiers .
america had a short-lived , sharp recession in 1980 , followed by a long and severe one at the beginning of 1981/1982 . but the us economy expanded in the interim in the interim , only barely enough to contemplate them distinct recessions . in fact , many economists believe that it was one big episode , and that was probably the appropriate way to think about it in a broader historical context . many economists believe that it was one of the main lessons , and that is probably the appropriate way to think about it in a broader historical context . many economists believe that it was one of the main lessons , and that is probably the appropriate way to think about it in a broader historical context .
in the 1990s , for example , us sanctions regimes introduced an average tariff of around seven per year . of 67 cases in that decade , two-thirds of us unilateral sanctions were imposed by the un . during bill clinton ’s presidency , it is estimated that around 40 % of the world ’s population , or 2.3 billion people , were subject to some form of us sanctions . in fact , the us imposes a large majority of sanctions against small countries . currently , the u.s. holds almost 8,000 us sanctions globally , with iran bringing the world ’s largest state-target .
in reality , china is now hemorrhaging foreign-exchange reserves and desperate to prop up renminbi values in the face of capital flight . worse still , by announcing america ’s withdrawal from the trans-pacific partnership ( tpp ) , it is designed at least partly to shape global trade and investment flows according to western rules rather than china ’s mercantilist vision , too , trump is abandoning us policies that might check china ’s surging impact on asia . in the same tweet , justifying his phone calls at tsai , he reiterated a false charge that china is devaluing its currency to gain export advantages over the us . in reality , china is now hemorrhaging foreign-exchange reserves , and is desperate to prop up renminbi values in the face of capital flight . its knowledge of international economics is either nonexistent or ten years beyond date .
likewise , russia is a country with a narrowly-based economy , led by a government focused on retaining power at home and re-establishing russia ’s influence in the middle east and europe . what we do know is that there is no alternative great power ready and the able to step in and assume what had been the american role . china is a frequently cited candidate , but its leadership has mostly focused on consolidating the domestic order and sustaining artificially high economic-growth rates to stave off popular unrest . likewise , russia is a country with a narrowly-based economy led by a government focused on retaining power at home and re-establishing russian influence in the middle east and europe . india is preoccupied with the challenge of its economic development , and tied down its problematic relationship with pakistan .
beijing – china ’s annual gdp growth decelerated to 7.6 % in the second quarter of 2012 , down from 8.1 % in the first quarter and with its lowest level of growth since the second quarter of 2009 . since early 2010 , in order to contain inflation and property bubbles , the chinese government has tightened monetary policy . the slowdown in china ’s growth rate , to some extent , reflects the government ’s effort to rein in the real-estate bubble , as well as other official policies aimed at rebalance the economy . as a result , the inflation rate has fallen from june 2.2 % this year to around 2.2 % , a 29-month low , and house prices , for which the national bureau of statistics unfortunately stopped issuing official data , appear to be stabilizing , and may even have fallen , albeit modestly . the newly released growth data may have dispelled fears of a hard landing for china ; but it has nonetheless motivated many to argue that china needs to stimulate its economy further , thereby guaranteeing 8 % annual growth .
as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present , for many years to come . still , owing to how rife with misinformation and muddied by misplaced arguments of the topic , policy debates often go nowhere if they frame abortion first and foremost as a health issue . after all , iran and the us have already been in war for decades , and neither side has interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . from a moral standpoint , there is a powerful case to be made for respecting a woman on the basis of individual personal freedom and bodily autonomy , rather than for forcing her to put her or her health or well-being in jeopardy by conducting an unwanted or unsafe pregnancy to term .
the world ’s enduring perception of africa as a village exacerbates slum dwellers ’ ’ plight , keeping them away from the global development agenda . with no access to education for all , that generation – which will soon be a majority – has little hope of ever escaping its straitened conditions . but for how long does the majority serve a minority ? every day , more people arrive in nairobi , enticing the promise of a jobs , resources , and a better life , only to realize that they are under-equipped to survive there and to age their children in the slum . at least half of those living in urban slums are coiled with fifa .
the world in which we live is a small garden of the well-explored territory surrounded by a dim , dark forest of catastrophes . the disasters lurking in the distance are legion : disaster-and comets ; world-wide pandemics and plagues ; nuclear and non-nuclear wars ; droughts , famines and floods ; volcanic eruptions , earthquakes and tsunamis ; human over-populations and nonhuman extinction ; rising temperatures and seaports ; falling ice ages ; clean-air and water depletion ; the disappearance of ice ages ; and the disappearance of forests , farms , and fish stocks . all of these disasters , and many more still to be imagined , are possible and many are unacceptable . the precautionary principle prescribes action , regardless of the cost , that the principle can not be consistently implemented . the problem , then , is that the principle can not be consistently applied . the precautionary principle prescribes action , regardless of the cost , to stop all .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but but but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . but employment is just one welfare facet , and in today ’s world , it is not enough . milan – for much of the post-world war ii period , us economic policy has focused on unemployment . and that shift would happen at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere around the world . the great employment losses of the great depression – reversed only when world war ii and the massive debt accumulated to finance it , reviving economic growth – had a lasting impact on at least two generations .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the sino-american rivalry , by contrast , involves two economies that are closely integrated with both it and with the rest of the world . the cold war of the twentieth century pittsburgh ( the us ) has dominated two rival military alliances against one another .
from 1968 to 1973 , the british labour and conservative government organized the removal of all living on the country ’s 55 islands , which now constitute the british indian ocean territories ( biot ) and split over mauritius , at a time of its independence . that was done at the behest of the united states , which had become embroiled in the vietnam war and requested , for understandable security reasons , that the use of diego garcia as an air and naval base . the way in which the residents of this archipelago were systematically dispossessed and hurled their land in the name of western strategic interests was a human tragedy for which the west can and should make restitution . the british foreign office claimed at a time that chagos islands did not have a settled population . the chagos islands were shipped to seychelles and mauritius , where they were deposited and left to fend for themselves .
islamabad – late last year , pakistan witnessed its second successful democratic transition in its 71-year history , with prime minister imran khan taking office after his own party won the general election on an anti-corruption slogan . and that shift would come at a time of growing challenges to american interests elsewhere around the world . hopes come high for a new us administration that seems willing to work with both technocrats and opposition parties to address pakistan ’s many urgent challenges . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime ; but it does not all-out war . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
as the term implies , “ emergency ” liquidity needs to be made accessible to systemically important financial institutions immediately , even when they are insolvent and resolution . unless governments come around to storing up intelligently designed countercyclical fiscal and supply-side policies , major advanced economies are likely to embark on a long spell of classical , unadulterated cyclical downturns . because of the 2010 dodd-frank act , the fed can issue emergency collateralized financing only to at least five kinds of eligible institutions , something of a problem if only your four of the world ’s largest banks are in trouble – and must affirm that a counterparty is viable in advance of any financing . in any case , the countercyclical pursuit of price stability and/or full employment over cyclical downturns now seems destined for an extended involuntary holiday . but the task of establishing whether a troubled entity is best left to the post-financial-fed order .
fiscal adjustment and structural reform without financing are more fragile and liable to default without a war chest of liquidity to prevent a run on public debt , while adequate policies are in place and gradually gain credibility . the eu and the ecb are worried about the moral hazard of any greek bailout . sovereign spreads are already pricing the risk of a domino effect from greece to spain , portugal , and other euro-zone members . at the same time , unless greece is fully adjusting its policies to restore fiscal sustainability and competitiveness , a partial bailout by the eu and the ecb will still probably be unable to avoid contagion risk onto the rest of the euro zone and the consequent threat to greece ’s survival . a default by greece , after all , might have the same global systemic effects that the lehman brothers did in 2008 .
sharing a mountainous – and porous – border with afghanistan , this region includes many taliban sympathizers among its fellow pashtuns . the terrorist attacks of september 11 , 2001 , and the consequent pressure from washington have led to a u-turn by pakistan away from pro-jihadi policies . human-rights groups have long urged the necessity of extending the writ of pakistan ’s constitution onto the tribal belt where religion-based parties have broad support . these religious parties , a coalition of which now head provincial government in the country ’s northwestern frontier province , have been politically marginalized , until given the central role of pakistan ’s military dictator in the 1980 ’s , general zia ul haq , who led pakistan ’s covert intervention in the war against the soviet occupation of afghanistan . throughout his rule , religion-based politics have grown coupled with the number of madrassahs and fighters trained and equipped by the pakistani and us intelligence services .
throughout its history , america has always tried to insulate its markets from foreign competition . with america ’s loss of interest the chief prop of the neo-liberal policies got it off again . mainstream politicians may still nod reverently , when the global free market is invoked , but in practice that the world is reverting to an older , more durable model . it is being tacitly accepted that , as was the case in the past , the world will contain a wide variety of economic systems and regimes . so , again , history seems to have more triumph over ideology .
the first years of his rule have been dominated by his struggle to gain control over the country ’s state-owned oil company , pdvsa . upon reasserting political control in 2003 , chávez fired 40 % of pdvsa ’s staff . chávez turned pdvsa into a personal fiefdom , and used it as a monetary cow ; many of his social programs were funded squarely from the company ’s budget . starved of cash , pdvsa was forced to cut back on maintenance and expansion , which had increased accidents and constrained production . his hostility to foreign players in the industry ( he expropriated a few american oil companies ’ holdings of 2007 ) constrained investment and held back production .
an armed attack by the united states , israel , or both of iran ’s nuclear facilities is another possibility . moreover , while a preemptive strike would delay iran ’s nuclear efforts , doing so would not stop the regime from rebuilding , and might also create the conditions that create challenges to the regime ’s domestic opponents . at the same time , iran could interfere with oil facilities , leading to a surge in prices and delivering another blow to the american and global economic recovery . one downside of such a prospect is that iran would probably retaliate against us interests and personnel in iraq and afghanistan , as well as using hamas and hezbollah , vis-à-vis israel and elsewhere . but , despite these potential drawbacks , an armed attack on iran ’s nuclear facilities would and should remain a distinct possibility , given the huge strategic costs of a nuclear-armed iran .
lord north is remembered for losing the british union with america . two centuries on , outgoing prime minister david cameron may be remembered for losing the two trade unions , with europe and between england and scotland . whereas the conservatives want scotland to be in a europe without europe , scottish nationalists want scotland in a europe without britain . and with northern ireland ’s republican running through sinn fein demanding a vote to reunification with the south , the uk ’s very existence is now squarely on the agenda . there is one way to lessen uncertainty and risk : the government should then quickly announce that it will negotiate with the eu on the basis of eea membership .
the tight-knit members of his clan , his political allies , and those of many members of the alawite minority will fight for their survival . a power-sharing deal is all but unthinkable , and syria ’s geography does not bode well for an orderly divide along sectarian lines . assad ’s war aim has been to avoiding a decisive defeat and gain international legitimacy , in the hope of a favorable political solution . assad ’s ultimate days are unlikely to do pretty much as it is . the rise of the islamic state has served to lend to his government ’s claims that syria risks being seized by terrorist groups ; yet the regime is finding itself increasingly isolated .
there is no reason to expect that the super-rich will act less selfishly than any other group . but it is not so much their self-interest that stands in the way of greater equality and social inclusion . if the super-rich believe that they are no longer a group of society and have little need of government , that is not because that belief corresponds to objective reality . it is because the prevailing narrative line of our time portrays markets as self-standing entities that run on their own fuel . that is a narrative that afflicts all segments of society , the middle-class no less than the wealthy .
here , the only explanation still stands in the composition of activity away from capital-intensive forms of production , like manufacturing , toward less-capital-intensive activities like services . but , while it may be able to explain why capital spending has been weak , and real interest rates have been low over the past three years , it can not account for why capital spending has been inadequate to impede recovery rates for more than three decades . finally , central banks should establish a higher inflation target , giving them more room to cut nominal interest rates in response to a future slowdown . there should be tax incentives for firms to hire the very long-term unemployed ; more public expenditure on infrastructure , education , and research to compensate the shortfalls in private capital expenditure ; and still higher capital requirements for banks , and strengthened regulation of nonbank financial institutions to prevent these risks from overheating . when disorder has multiple causes , so do multiple treatments .
once again , exposure to western values has delivered another potemkin village ; russia presents a spin of regulatory and democratic institutions , but behind that cardboard surface at an equally arbitrary brutes rule . look at putin ’s attempt to rig ukraine ’s previous presidential election , and the on again off the criminal charges brought against his opposition leader yuliya tymoshenko . the danger for the world is that putin ’s lawlessness is being exported . across russia in the near abroad , a form of criminalized diplomacy takes root . the supposedly civilizing influence of being a “ western partner ” — chairing his g-8 summit in saint petersburg for example , appears to have been lost on putin ’s kremlin cabal .
there are far too many entry barriers to the poor , innovative , and those without access to credit . democratic latin america limps sideways because it can not run ahead ; if anything , it can not . in latin america , too , a large number of people live with outworking hands . throughout the hemisphere , paternalistic governments accustom the people to receiving just enough to survive , rather than participate in society at all . across the region , the politicians that octavio paz once referred to as “ philanthropic ogres ” are creating clients , instead of citizens , people who are expecting instead to demand .
instead , indexes incorporate variables , what they refer to as the “ policy space ” that are aimed at generating either competitiveness or inclusive growth . but this is not essentially what these indexes are doing to measure it . for starters , competitiveness must do with their ability to increase market share without sacrificing margin positions or delay wages , something that reflects superior productivity . two examples stand out for the wef ’s global competitiveness index and its new , inclusive growth and development index . inclusiveness has to do with income disparities and growth disparities across various regions and society .
whether one considered the dutch welfare state to be humane and generous , or bloated and foolhardy , its largesse took a heavy toll on the economy . from the 1960 ’s and 1970 ’s , those scripted about the netherlands often lamented the “ dutch disease . ” so many of the generous subsidies , grants , and transfers payments targeted at all from the truly needy artists to ca n’t sell their work , that after-tax wages often barely exceed the benefits . so people rarely returned to work after losing or leaving a job , or did it in the underground economy , with its unreported cash payments . but , unlike , say , the french , the dutch reacted to their past excesses with a series of policies designed to promote a return to work in the formal labor market .
yet considerable segments of the global financial and economic elites seem to think that unless the us falls into recession in the coming months , trump will be reelected . moreover , their prognosis is not based only on a fear that trump will go it wrong again ; many seem resigned to such an outcome , and some might even hope for it . at this point , comparisons to the 1930s inevitably come to mind . to be sure , there is little in common with trump and adolf hitler . but , in their apparent admission to trump ’s reelection , large parts of the liberal establishment are behaving like germany ’s financial and industrial elites when hitler rose to power in the 1930s .
to avoid such a future , asian countries need to modify the rules of the game , provide opportunities for youth , whatever their background , to ascend the income ladder . governments must take action , complementing their pro-growth policies with policies aimed at ensuring that the gains are shared much more equally and sustainably . to be sure , some asian governments have been working to address inequality with progressive redistribution policies . for example , south korea ’s government recently announced that it would raise its minimum wage by 16.4 % , to 7,530 had won ( $ 6,70 ) a hour , and up from about 55 % of its current gdp by 2020 . yet , to make that happen , market mechanisms are not enough to make it .
the israeli infantrymen had taped flashlights to their helmets , so that the tank spacex gunners could have carried out direct their firing on egyptians just ahead of them . but paratroopers falling through helicopters suddenly jumped an egyptian gun crews who never had a chance in a hand-to-hand fight . egyptian defenses had blocked the middle highway across the sinai with a fortified box comprising powerful artillery and more than a hundred tanks , which was fronted by three parallel trench-lines manned by thousands of infantrymen infantrymen and anchored on sand dunes and high ground at every turn . sharon had his forces swell over sand dunes to enter trench lines at their tipping point and attacked their length – a simple maneuver that egyptians could have defeated did not be pinned by an artillery barrage and israeli tanks firing directly at them directly at them . still , the egyptian artillery had been superior , and it was supposed to have at least silenced the tanks firing into its strench line .
a pilot work in rural india shows that an mental-health first-aid approach can be successfully tailored to resource-constrained communities . a pilot work in rural india shows that an mental-health first-aid approach can be successfully tailored to the needs of resource-constrained communities . in the longer term , countries should aim to match participation rates in conventional first-aid courses . over the past three years , 11 % of australia ’s population has completed such a course , thanks partly to requirements that people in certain positions , such as child-care workers , have a first-aid certificates . requiring that those in specific occupations – including high-school teachers , nurses , and police officers – acquire an mental-health first-aid certificates – would substantially enhance participation , thereby boosting support for those struggling with mental-health problems .
the tragedy of millions of impoverished people who dying of aids , even when drugs exist to treat them , raises deep questions about global intellectual-property rights , as patent protection emphasizes a barrier to essential medicines reaching the world ’s poor . but how can the benefits of a global patent system that provides the incentives for innovation and new discoveries combine with assurance that poor people gain access to the health care that they so desperately need ? still , the costs of producing such drugs are far below the market price , perhaps as low as $ 350 – $ 500 per year for some of the three-drug combinations used to treat aids . some of the quality producers of generic drugs , such as the cipla of india , have offered to provide such drugs at prices close to the cost of producing them . in response to this offer ( and bad publicity ) , merck , abbott laboratories , and bristol myers sachs , three big patent-holding companies , have announced that their willingness to supply the african market at “ zero profits ” – ie , at approximately $ 500 per year for the aids drugs they produce .
this reading is reinforced by macron ’s experiences himself . having never held an elected office , macron has created a new party centered on himself , with the support of both center-left and center-right voters . next year , ’s european parliament elections are likely to reveal more about the potential for such a political restructuring . throughout the world , he appears to have restructured french politics . but what if populist movements do win ’ continued electoral success helps drive forward a broader political restructuring that ultimately furthers european democracy ?
karwah was a hero who had met his tragic end . one year ago , he died from complications in childbirth , the murderer who is taking double the number of lives of the entire ebola epidemic – many of them also contributing to waves of patients arriving at her ebola ward . karwah was a hero who had met this tragic end . one year ago , he died from complications in childbirth , the murderer who is taking double as many lives of the entire ebola epidemic . in the nineteenth century , as many as one in 100 pregnancies in europe ended with maternal death .
the rest of the region wanted to emulate them . the rest of the region wanted to emulate them . an estimated two million syrians living in turkey , and more than one million syrians now live in jordan . most live outside refugee camps and many work – for the most part . unemployment in turkey and jordan is around 10 % and 12 % , respectively , has reached a high of 12 % , respectively , and their governments are naturally wary of programs that might cost their citizens work .
the problem with obama ’s america is rooted in the conflicting nature of his leadership . now , with american policymakers talking about “ freedom , ” people see bombing campaigns , chambers of torture , and the constant threats of deadly drones . the reasons why president george w. bush chose to go to war in afghanistan and iraq have undoubtedly been complicated . but the language used by those wars ’ neo-conservative promoters came straight out of the kennedy era : the spread of democracy , the cause of liberty , and the universal authority of “ american values . ” one reason that america elected obama in 2008 was that the rhetoric of american idealism once again resulted in the deaths and displacement of millions .
president bush ’s recent visit to asia made little news – by design . but that ’s because bush did n’t start to address an issue looming larger in the region : a changing face of security in asia in light of china ’s increasing economic and military might . in the past , such a mix of countries was nearly unthinkable , and such exercises can not be explained away as simple , one-off ” affairs with little resonance . this summer , for example , the us and china spearheaded their first-ever grand-scale joint military exercise . this was followed by russian news reports that china , russia , and india would conduct trilateral military exercises , named for us president indira 2005 , ” on the same scale before the end of this year .
they should view reforms that include giving city governments the authority , the resources , and the responsibility they need to tackle health and health-care outcomes . proven systems and reform should be sharing among emerging-market cities , with successful new innovations and ideas being tailored to local conditions . anticipatory city planning , based on realistic demographic forecasting , patient registry , and health-information systems , as well as participation in urban health-knowledge networks , must be pursued . they should consider reforms that involve giving city governments the authority , the resources , and the responsibility they need to address health and health outcomes . emerging-market governments must address the critical issues that arise from weak coordination within and among national and municipal governments on health and health-care policies and programs .
shanghai – tight media control the unrest in tibet has followed what , to some , looks like far more open coverage in the devastating earthquake in sichuan province . is such a change in china ’s media strategy or simply a brief alternation of tactics ? this question stands out in view of chinese public opinion in the latter phase of the tibet crisis . much to the western media ’s consternation , the chinese people all over the world are lashed out against their supposedly biased coverage of the tibetan riot . the throngs of chinese expatriates and students took to the streets , protesting the prejudice they perceived in western media reports .
meanwhile , our gatherer ancestors ate carbohydrates ( glucose of glucose ) , also carried over to lamycolytic pathway , breaking down for power . and nature did its part by supplying every naturally occurring foodstuffs with either fat or carbohydrate as the power source , not both . any excess glucose stimulated pancreas to relax the insulin that transported glucose into peripheral fat tissue , and it also caused the liver to store glucose as the glycogen ( the liver ch ) . as a result , our forebears stayed healthy . as a result , our forebears stayed healthy as well . any excess glucose stimulated carbohydrate to relax the insulin , which transported glucose into peripheral fat tissue , thereby causing the liver to store glucose as the glycogen ( the liver ch ) .
sub-saharan africa has 10 % of the world ’s population , but it is home to about 70 % of those living with hiv/aids . there is a widespread misperception in the developed world that we are already winning the battle against the hiv/aids . in reality , the crisis has merely become less visible . across africa , the disease is projected to have reduced the average national growth rate to 2-4 percentage points annually . across africa , the disease is projected to have reduced the average national growth rate by 2-4 percentage points each year .
the uk would need to adopt the type of satellite status that norway , iceland , and liechtenstein now opposes , accepting , and implementing decisions that it takes no part in shaping . even the us has said that it would be reluctant to negotiate a separate free-trade agreement with the uk . remaining in the single market , meanwhile , comes at a price – one that british voters may not support . should that democratic deficit be unacceptable to the uk , it will be left alone , out of economically cold . leaving the single market would create grave uncertainty for the british economy , especially its financial sector .
for afghanistan , which was ravaged by war without respite since the 1978 “ saur revolution ” , the endgame will be even more nerve-wracking . as the curtain drops , two developments will greatly affect the withdrawal process and the ultimate outcome . the first is us governance on afghan control , which depends on the orderly withdrawal of american and nato forces from 2014 . the other is the election , also to be held in 2014 , of the new afghan president – a process that needs to enable the united states and its nato allies to claim plausibly that he is handed the country over to legitimate government by any means . as the american military leaves , this enters another period of political and strategic uncertainty , after nearly a half-century of disorder and civil war .
new york – watching a sophisticated democratic society knowingly take into a predictable and avoidable national disaster , it is a rare and alarming event . most british politicians are well aware that leaving the european union with no agreement on the post-brexit relationship will do tremendous damage to their country . they are not sleepwalking into an abyss ; their sights are wide open . and that shift would happen at a time of growing challenges to america ’s interests elsewhere in the world . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
normalization of relations with the us is key to liberalization in cuba . indeed , the predictions that cuba might now be a chinese-style shift toward a chinese-style model of political autocracy and economic opening might prove inaccurate only in the short run . this , in turn , is no longer an option ; on the contrary , it may be possible . after all , such changes are best served not by imposing stifling sanctions , or by a military one , as was the case in iraq , but by socioeconomic improvement and diplomatic engagement by outside powers . in fact , even if america ’s efforts to normalize relations were incremental , russia ’s current economic woes probably doomed its longtime – and already much-diminished – support for the castro administration .
but , while vigilance is misplaced , the chance that major countries will embrace competitive devaluations – initiating a genuine currency wars in the process – is slim . what is well known is that weidmann does n’t like it when central banks , notably the european central bank , are buying sovereign bonds . while countries have not descended into protectionism after the global financial crisis erupted , difficult economic and labor-market conditions in the core countries may force policymakers to protect domestic markets as they attempt to gain external competitiveness . but , while vigilance is misplaced , the chance that major countries will embrace competitive devaluations , initiating a genuine currency wars within the process , is slim . indeed , in recent years , much political activity has been concentrated , directly or indirectly , on exchange rates in ways that imply new economic and political divisions .
a 1 % increase in the number of immigrant college graduates leads to a 6 % increase in patents per capita . the us census bureau projects that the american population as a whole will grow by 49 % over the next four decades . the us census bureau projects that the american population will grow by 49 % per capita over the next four decades . not only is immigration relevant to economic power ; , because almost all developed countries are aging and face the burden of providing for older generations , it might help lessen the sharpness of the policy problem . not only is immigration relevant to economic power ; but , because almost all developed countries are aging and face the burden of providing for older generations , it might help to lessen the sharpness of the policy problem . moreover , although studies suggest that the short-term , direct measurable economic gains of the national level are relatively small , and unskilled workers may suffer from competition , skilled migrants can be relevant to particular economic sectors .
in fact , only two of the six major economic tasks , identified by the working conference , fit neatly with the third plenum ’s strategic agenda . the call for strengthened social security adheres to the third plenum ’s proposal to allocate 30 % of state-owned enterprises ’ profits to fund personal programs like pensions and health care . likewise , emphasizing markets ’ “ decisive role ” in upgrading china ’s industrial structure and eliminating excess capacity is compatible with the third plenum ’s goal of achieving a market-based shift toward a consumer society . but what emerges from all of this is yet another example of timeworn “ kitchens ” ’s approach to chinese economic policymaking – countless proposals , initiatives , and goals that are loosely connected , and that are often thwarted by domestic inconsistencies . a new approach is needed and will require three key changes to china ’s economic-policy framework .
the essential economic reality confronting the ecb today is that the american economy is falling headlong into a severe slump , bernanke ’s surprise cut speaks volumes to that . it defies an economic logic to think that the global economy , including europe , will be escaping its consequences . even with sticky wages and prices in europe , the global slowdown will reduce energy , commodity , and food prices on world markets – all of which are important factors behind currently inflaming european inflation levels . as european growth slows , so will inflationary pressures . so trichet should relax , stop threatening others , and let an economic slowdown do the job for him .
hungarian prime minister viktor orbán is putin putin ’s staunchest friend in europe ( though greek prime minister alexis tsipras , apparently seeking to change this ) , while poland ’s leaders have consistently warned that russia may once again be turning down the menace to the continent . as a result , whereas hungary is paying gazprom $ 260 per thousand cubic meters of gas , poland is paying $ 526 – the highest price in the eu . all the major players in russia ’s energy-centric economy were going bust quickly into line politically , allowing putin to use the country ’s oil and gas exports as a geopolitical cudgel . eu countries that could not try to bully militarily , through nato , were being wooed with discounts – or punished with price hikes . poles paid a steep price , but right .
instead , the world has created a baroque , bureaucratic , politicized system that systematically inhibits researchers ’ r & d plant acquired , and the formation of intellectual property . but , though accusations about the biopiracy may have an emotional appeal , impartial analyses have shown that they have little factual basis . in fact , biopiracy is rare , so precious that one can be dealt with directly . the seed treaty achieves this by establishing a multilateral system for approaches to a negotiated list of agricultural genetic resources . the seed treaty achieves this by establishing a multilateral system for access to a negotiated list of agricultural genetic resources .
with ahmadinejad ’s second and final term fast approaching , a unpopular , unpopular president seems unlikely to abandon his efforts to destabilize iran ’s ruling establishment . in fact , he has long promoted mashai as his successor ; but khamenei has curbed his illegal efforts , and has now put his stop to mashai ’s candidacy completely . at the same time , he has cut off such sources channeled to specific religious institutions ; helped those in his circle establish private-sector banks through easing regulations ; and challenged iran ’s most powerful economic and military institution , the islamic revolutionary guard corps ( irgc ) . but , as the rift between khamenei and ahmadinejad has grown , the support of the president has diminished significantly , with even state-run media referring to ahmadinejad ’s loyalists as a “ deviation circle . ” moreover , unlike during ahmadinejad ’s first term , the non-state media now publicly criticize his economic and political agenda .
the tax plan has highlighted the fact that italy , like japan , is a country of public debt and growing private wealth . as the economist marco fortis points out , italy ’s family wealth is still , if not for long , second to none in europe . under monti ’s leadership , the reforms were eventually initiated and markets stabilized . in order to enhance the credibility of government finances , monti ’s government substantially raised taxes , particularly on real estate , while preserving an already record-high income-tax rate . beyond its growing international credibility , two major changes in the italian political landscape shaped the electoral campaign .
but certain lines need to be drawn if good government can be made feasible , just as a zone of privacy in our personal and family lives is crucial to sustaining relationships that matter most to us . the media are never more enthusiastic about free speech than when they see it slamming the faces , with rage or humiliations , of those in power . prosecution typically boosts leakers ’ stature , making it pointless as an deterrent . one of the hardest lessons for senior government officials to learn – ­ – including for me , when i was australian attorney general and foreign minister – is the futility of all but a tiny minority of cases attempting to prosecute and punish those responsible for leaks . it does not undo the initial damage , and normally compounds it with further publicity .
clearly , there is no form of brexit – or post-brexit britain , which will satisfy both groups . this explains may ’s desperation to push brexit through as soon as possible . she wants to leave before voters realize that the leave campaign has sold them a false bill of goods , including a promise that they can keep all of the benefits of eu membership , particularly full access to the european single market , without having to allow the free movement of labor . moreover , while may ran in the “ remain ” camp during the referendum campaign , she realizes that as prime minister , she will be held responsible for any failure in the brexit negotiations . she also knows that she can not possibly succeed politically , because the media will always spotlight “ defeats , ” while hardly noticing “ leave . ”
among other things , such surveys should aim to create a clear picture of adolescents ’ exposure to avoidable risk factors , such as alcohol and illicit drug use , unsafe sexual behaviors , violence , obesity , physical inactivity , and unhealthy diets . to complement these efforts , we must also invest in improving our understanding of how these risk factors are occurring , most often studied in conjunction with early childhood and adulthood – impact adolescents ’ health . data-collection efforts should also include a focus on mental-health health . indeed , according to a global disease study disease study , health risk factors account for at least 50 % of early death and disability among adults aged 50 and above ; for young people , that figure falls to just 26 % . more studies are needed to inform health policies and planning adequately .
talk of regime change , however , may have pushed musharraf to re-enter politics . thus , in a long conversation to the bbc before launching his new party , musharraf hinted that pakistan ’s army is the only institution that could save the country from its current woes . “ there is a sense of despondency in pakistan and the place that the people go to is the military , ” he said . pakistan these days is a troubled country , politically and economically . only a politician with the backing of major constituencies can hope for restoring political order and economic health , musharraf is presenting himself as a candidate with which the military might support .
with policymakers rewarded effectively for myopic thinking , western democracies find themselves struggling to ensure stable , long-term growth in ways that , say , an authoritarian china is not . there are at least two ways to address this problem in the context of democracy . first , governments could be more narrowly bound to their predecessors ’ political choices . that way , more forward-thinking legislation that has been discussed and enacted will have time in reality to take effect , with no risk that it will simply be withdrawn from the subsequent us administration . the european union provides one example of how long-term binding commitments can work .
this begins with the political will and sets of priorities . at the wef in incheon , nobel peace prize laureate kailash satyarthi , has called for a mass movement demanding that education is put prominently on the agenda of any politicians running for the election , at all levels of government . for the sdgs to be in operation , education must receive higher bilaterally , nationally and globally . moreover , the ongoing shortfall in aid for education must be reversed , and new financing sources – such as emerging-economy donors , the private sector , the foundations , and philanthropists – must be mobilized . the incheon declaration calls for allocating at least 15-20 % of the total public expenditure to education .
the nbu ’s administration understands that it needs to act to contain inflation , but its insistence on a dollar peg ties its hands because it bars them from raising interest rates sufficiently . instead , they have reverted to strict reserve requirements , effectively rationing credit , and thereby triggering a domestic credit squeeze amid the current international financial crisis , which arguably will force some medium-sized banks into insolvency , owing to liquidity problems . as a result , ukraine ’s money supply , the m3 , has burst by no less than 52 % this past year , signaling that inflation is hitting 30 % soon . ukraine ’s current refinance rate , at 16 % per year , is 10 % below the inflation rate , meaning that ukraine has a negative real interest rate of 10 % per year . rationing is always worse than market : it does not have the role to play .
initial concerns iranian domestic politics and ongoing power struggles within the regime – the & a struggle that scuttled a diplomatic solution once before – have been raised that neither the conservatives nor the reformers were willing to miss president mahmoud ahmadinejad as a diplomatic triumph . iran would then find it hard to maintain its foothold in lebanon , and its position there would become more complicated even in iraq , despite its shia majority . developments in syria , iran , ’s last remaining ally in the region , are just as likely to play a role . the downfall of president bashar al-assad ’s regime would amount to a strategic debacle for iran , which would then face a united front with the arab states , backed by turkey , the us , and , in a sense , israel . one can only hope that , given the seriousness of the situation , this path to failure will be sealed off .
as mark leonard , the european council ’s director for foreign relations , put it , “ the conventional wisdom is that europe ’s hour came and went . ” its lack of vision , divisions , obsession with legal frameworks , the unwillingness to project military power , and sclerotic economy stands in stark contrast to the united states to exert global influence through ‘ rome ’ instead of europe , it is our archaic understanding of power . the eu ’s power-sharing approach , hammering out agreements , and resolving conflict through multiple committees can be frustrating and lacks drama , but it has become increasingly relevant for the many issues in a networked and interdependent world . as the term retains any relevance , the world is bipolar , and will most likely remain so for the foreseeable future . indeed , the american political scientist andrew moravcsik makes the kind of argument that the european peoples , bright and collectively , are the only states any of us states except the us , which opposes nato , much less exert global influence across the full spectrum , from ‘ hard ’ to ‘ soft ’ to ‘ soft power ’ .
tehran – iranians are going to go into the polls on june twelve to elect a new president . while some argue that president mahmoud ahmadinejad ’s reelection is a foregone conclusion , the outcome is , in fact , not all clear . iran ’s supreme leader , ayatollah ali khamenei , has said repeatedly in public settings that he will not declare his preferred preference among the candidate . indeed , in mashad on march 21 , ayatollah khamenei said that “ there were some rumors that i endorse a special candidate for a presidential election . but i have one vote , and i would not set a certain candidate , because the people themselves should elect their nominees on the basis of their knowledge . ”
likewise , a shift to a territorial tax system will raise taxable gains , particularly in the short run , because us companies repatriate some of the existing overseas funds . but that will be offset by limits on personal tax deductions and de-exclusions , and lower tax rates on personal income will boost taxable incomes as individuals raise earnings and compensation shift from fringe benefits to taxable cash . there is an important legislative reason why this projected budget will return to a surplus in the future . the republican candidates hold only a very small majority in the senate , where a filibuster rule requires a three-fifths majority to pass a majority of legislation , giving the democrats the power to block a republican tax agenda . although the net tax changes may widen the fiscal deficit in the short run , the incentive effects of lower fiscal rates and increased capital accumulation mean faster economic growth and higher real incomes , both cause rising taxable incomes and lower long-term deficits .
second , europe needs to manage economic migrants and asylum-seekers separately . pooling them has brought its asylum system close to collapse ; separating them would help ensure that those in fear of their lives can be given a fair hearing when protecting their rights . tackling the eu ’s genuine economic and social needs requires effective blue – or green-card policies for economic migrants , with a comprehensive immigration target . and policymakers must not wait until the next migration crisis before imposing such a scheme . likewise , the eu must re-expand its operational sophia initiative to tackle refugee smuggling in the mediterranean .
to what extent are ’s conditions , comparable to that triggered by the 1997 asian crisis or other abrupt capital-flow reversals of recent decades ? but neither the mexican fed ’s “ tequila crisis ” of 1994 nor the 1997 asian crisis generated big public-finance deficits . on both counts , efforts to resist a hard exchange rate in the face of capital-flow reversals were a major factor , as was true in turkey during the year prior to its currency implosion in february 2001 . will the fed ’s gradual reduction of qe bring with it more emerging-market problems this year ? emerging-market bulls signal that most major middle-income countries have substantially lowered their public debt/gdp ratios , giving them the fiscal space they have lacked in the past .
already , many people in their fifties and sixties would like to remain economically productive , perhaps working 20-30 hours per week . both desires can be fulfilled if societies allow the elderly to work more years and let everyone work fewer hours . already , many people in their fifties and sixties would like to remain economically productive , perhaps working 20-30 hours per week . at the same time , younger people long for more education , leisure , friends , and , crucially , children . such a reform could take place over a few decades , without slowing economic growth or declining prosperity .
denmark ’s government has just that , and seems to be bringing the danish public around to the idea of joining the euro . prime minister tony blair is apparently convinced of the strategic desirability of joining europe , but because a yes vote in a referendum now looks so implausible that another effort can not be made to attempt . in all likelihood , “ being cing ” ” ” britain is simply impossible . it is this commitment , by which the government itself is now obligations . british public opinion is now so antagonistic to the eu as much as to europe , but because a yes vote in a referendum now looks so implausible that any massive government campaign of persuasion .
a recent report by the bipartisan national energy policy commission exemplifies this new coalition . whereas president bush argues that technological advances in hydrogen fuels and fuel-cell cells will constrain oil imports in the long run , such measures require major changes in the transportation infrastructure that will require decades to complete . while the bush administration remains skeptical about the science behind such projections , some state and local governments are enacting measures to cut carbon emissions . more important , companies like general electric are committing to green goals that go well beyond government regulations . the middle of the range of scenarios considered by the intergovernmental panel on climate change projects that atmospheric co2 concentrations will achieve almost three times their pre-industrial level in 2100 .
ultimately , people in those fields are bought and sold by corporate managers as little as people in engineering fields . achieving this kind of education probably means pursuing what one naturally finds intriguing and engaged , whether it funding or physiology . an important point for students to bear in mind is that they should motivate themselves to advance deep understanding , rather than rote memorization , subjects that they study to fulfill the role of true practitioners in whatever field they are finally choosing to pursue . at the same time , they should invest in acquiring the communication skills that will be similarly pivotal to a successful career . hardly anyone makes it all the way to the top in the business world .
abortion occurs in every country , and within every socioeconomic class . but abortion is most common in developing countries , where access to family-planning services often remains limited . indeed , in the united states , 61 % of abortion patients are in their twenties , more than 59 % are already mothers , and almost two-thirds identify with organized religion . each year , 25 % of all pregnancies – some $ 56 million – end up . but this day , however , the message in the name of elizabeth ii and other women like it is : abortion , while in many countries a political wedge issue , is simply a fact of life .
a second argument is that if the ecb stands firm , workers will not demand higher nominal wages , because they will understand that doing so would lead only to higher interest rates and higher unemployment . there is no irrelevant this argument ; monetary policy probably has some effect on wage bargaining . but one should not expect too much from a tough ecb stance . the ecb should not delude itself to consider that a small interest-rate hike will do enough to raise interest rates . if and when wage pressure does that , the ecb , to stay true to its word , it may feel compelled to raise interest rates far more than it now expects .
megaupload permitted its 180 million registered users to upload and drop their movies , television shows , and music , with some of the money earned by dotcom ( from advertising and subscriptions ) on its mansion near auckland , where it retained the rolls-royce and other exotic cars . dotcom ’s lawyer claims that megaupload merely provided storage for his subscribers ’ files and had no control over what they had been store . late last month , the united nations considered legislation aimed at stopping internet piracy . bills were written at urging hollywood studios and publicizing industries , stating that violations of online copyright cost the american 100,000 jobs . but megaupload did offer monetary rewards to users who uploaded files that turned out to be popular with other users .
moscow – when the opening ceremony from the beijing olympic games begins in just a few days , viewers will be presented with the minutely choreographed spectacle swathed in nationalist kitsch . like those regimes , whether fascist or communist , china ’s leaders have tried to turn public space and sporting events into visible proof of their fitness and mandate to govern . to be sure , images that will recall hitler ’s goose-storm troopers are the latest in keeping with china ’s leaders to mind their olympics ; after all , official chinese nationalism proclaims the country ’s own “ peaceful rise ” within an idyll of a harmonious evolution . but , both aesthetically and politically , the parallel is hardly far-fetched . indeed , by opting for albert speer jr. , the son of hitler ’s favorite architect and designer in the 1936 berlin olympics to design a master ’s plan for the beijing games , china ’s government has itself alluded to the radical politicization of aesthetics , which has been the hallmark of twentieth-century totalitarianism .
if anything , economists ’ embrace of this role has since grown stronger . but it has also made the subject less relevant , diminishing its legitimacy and credibility even more so . inconvenient truths , spoken by dissenting voices , can not go unnoticed indefinitely . economists are no longer seeing much of the public as to ask the right questions , or to attempt to answer them with integrity . to regain credibility , economics needs a more open critique of assumptions , methods , and results .
madrid – europe is in the throes of multiple economic , social , political , and institutional crises . by contrast , china is a dynamic and outward-looking – providing good reason for the eu to assume vigorous leadership and engage in constructive partnerships with china on key initiatives ( like sustainable infrastructure across eurasia ) . and that imperative extends to german chancellor angela merkel ’s christian democratic union ( cdu ) , its bavarian sister party , the christian social union ( csu ) , and the spd . the united states is reckoning with a psychologically unstable president , a plutocratic cabinet , and a republican congressional majority . in short , this is critical time for germany and europe to provide vision , stability , and global leadership .
in keeping with china ’s recent efforts to project its “ soft ” side , the opening ceremony produced the vision of a historic but dynamic culture at its finest end . equally notable was china ’s projection as the nascent leader of the new international cultural order . many artists involved in creating the spectacle , including the fireworks specialist cai guo qiang , the dance star shen wei , and the composer dun earned their glory primarily to the west . other than passing a few people , ’s liberation army troops , you would have been hard pressed to find any visible evidence to the reigning communist regime or its co-founder , mao zedong . the “ bird ’s nest ” stadium was the creation of a multinational design team of herzog & de meuron with suggestions from the visual performer of ai weiwei .
my research , which included thousands of interviews with women in india to burkina faso , centered on one question : how can the international community improve the welfare of the world ’s poorest women ? the answer , it turns out , is to help them do whatever they are already doing on their own . one of the most effective ways to empower women anywhere , but especially in the developing world is by promoting financial independence . in many areas , that means supporting “ informal savings groups , ” the networks of like-minded women paying dues to build shared pools of resources . that money can then be drawn on to fund any number of items , such as small-scale business spending , school fees , or health-care costs .
what really mattered in heiligendamm was not the decisions taken by any putative world administration but the fact that the g8 ’s days now seem numbered . president putin ’s behavior at the summit clearly demonstrated what he thinks of europeans ; not by too much . indeed , europeans should have understood that this viewpoint is spreading globally , particularly on the other side of the atlantic . politically and economically , countries from china and india are more important today than some european g8 members . therefore , the summit ’s outcome was a long way from a miracle .
in most areas , the epas will actually hurt intra-african trade , weakening trade revenues , and undermining trade-driven industrialization in africa . given this , the epa ’s proponents argue , a special fund should be established to compensate for some of the short-term losses . though the eu argues that the epas will buttress the afcfta , its preliminary research indicates that the trade gains brought about by the epas , as negotiated , are likely to be concentrated in a handful of agricultural products and to exclude least-developed countries . some will argue that the problem concerns more timing , because losses are likely to materialize immediately , and that the potential benefits brought by increased eu access will take longer to emerge . to be sure , african leaders are right to be worried .
for the americans , there had been `` a heroic or victorious account in which atomic bombings represent the final blowback against an aggressive , fanatic , and savage enemy . '' john dower , the american historian and specialist in modern japan , studied this issue in length . for americans , there had `` a heroic or victorious account in which atomic bombings represent the ultimate blowback against a aggressive , fanatic , and savage enemy . '' for example , at the 1995 smithsonian institution in washington sought to take a fresh look at the enola , a plane that dropped the atomic bomb on hiroshima . he demonstrated how to convey history and value in totally different ways : from an american or a japanese point of view , even when no one is making facts or formulating sources .
it would have to be paved together at the october 17 meeting of the european council , with european leaders growing increasingly frustrated with the full process . it would be pushing the real issues down the road , rather than the end of the brexit debate . moreover , johnson has already disbanded the civil-service team leading the previous round of negotiations . any new agreement will be perhaps the old deal with several bells and whistles . that spectacle , too , has years to run .
likewise , our inability to come together to stop syrian president bashar al-assad ’s lifting of war-crimes crimes crimes against his own people has left the void filled by putin and iran . and , as if our inability to ensure stability in our own neighborhood had not been enough , we also allowed right-wing populist and nationalist movements to take off within the european union itself . these movements , actively fomented on russia , have produced homegrown political leaders who frighteningly , but not shockingly , resemble putin and erdoğan . poland ’s de facto leader , jarosław kaczyński , and hungarian prime minister viktor orbán , in particular , have been busily dismantling illiberal intra-eu states ’ governing states . european leaders all too often shout from the sidelines when they should be on the field and acting to defend common european interests .
a common framework also needs to be invented , so that such programs can be scaled up and implemented in various contexts . delivering the benefit “ points , ” for example , rather than money denominated in a particular currency , governments and private-sector actors must work together to advance innovative solutions that meet workers ’ urgent and evolving needs . as the nature of work changes , so must the nature of the benefit system . delivering opportunities and security to everybody , everywhere in an age of widespread technological disruption would enable governments and private-sector actors to work together to advance innovative solutions that meet workers ’ urgent and evolving needs . and standardized educational credentials would retain their value as they moved with those who won each other .
on the surface and below , brazil has thrown a dramatic spin : inflation is down to negligible levels . ultimately , brazilian policymakers are worried about their own being , not with the prosperity of foreign investors . moreover , even without a timely correction , brazil will respond to the crisis in far different ways to mexico . if and when the two sides find themselves with it , brazilian policymakers will shed few tears for international investors . rightly or wrongly , mexican policymakers were in awe of wall street ; brazil does not have that hang on .
but do n’t despair : there is still time to save our climate . by incorporating a carbon-reduction strategies into agriculture and land conservation , more heat-trapping gases may be locked in forests and soils . but , while techniques already exist , success will require increasing the use of no-till farming , embraced permaculture principles , better management of wetlands , and uses rotational grazing techniques among other interventions . markets ’ power to drive radical change in energy and land use is great ; but , as the 2017 storms should remind us , the climate emergency we face calls for vigorous and urgent action . transforming the way people acquire and consume energy will require robust incentives and policy frameworks to set the course for success .
but after former us president barack obama tried to rehabilitate america ’s health-care disaster with a halfway action , arguably the most that was politically feasible at the time – those shared by the democratic nomination clearly have more ambitious plans . still , many democratic candidates have hailed a major expansion of government-funded health care . several us contenders – including bernie sanders , elizabeth warren , kamala harris , and beto o’rourke – do not agree entirely on the details of such regimes or simply have not spelled them out . warren , meanwhile , has proposed introducing universal childcare , financing a wealth tax over $ 50 million . but their proposals , a single-payer system ( “ medicare for all ” ) , national health services , or something else , do n’t all mean the same .
they claim to represent “ the reformers , ” but why should voters believe leaders who appear no different from previous crop of politicians , who have oversold them the gains from globalization and pooh-hed their grievances ? but there is another explanation , one that aligns with rationality and self-interest . in the language of economists , centrist politicians face the problem of asymmetrical information . voters are more likely to be attracted to anti-establishment candidates and can safely be expected to depart from prevailing policies . when mainstream politicians lose their credibility , it is natural for voters to discount the promises that they make .
the landslide reelection of president paul kagame last year had more to do with power than with democracy . although kagame remains popular , his government has been widely criticized for stifling free speech and human rights in the run-up to the vote . today , leaders in rwanda , which is widely considered an african success story , have improved stability by moving away from the washington consensus approach to governance . politically , rwanda is strong , disciplined , and organized . the conclusion that i will draw is not that human rights do n’t matter , but that political discipline and imperfect forms of democracy are acceptable as long as the tradeoff is sustained in economic and institutional governance .
cross-border flows of goods , information , people , and capital that are its lifeblood rely on some threshold levels of safety , stability and predictability . moreover , there is an obvious , shared interest going on to do so : nobody benefits from the prevalence of systemic risk . continued economic progress in the developing world , and the recovery in the advanced countries , requires preventing local and regional conflicts from delivering large , systemic shocks . on priorities ’ priorities , it is arguably more important for g-20 governments to bolster core systems that allow global flows of global capital than it is to address strictly economic issues . it is this threshold that seems set to come under threat .
washington , dc – participants in the occupy wall street movement are right to argue that the big banks were never properly investigated for their mortgages ’ origination , aggregation , and securitization behavior that was central to the financial crisis and lost more than eight million jobs . but leading banks are also accused of illegal behavior – inducing people to borrow , for example , by holding it back about the rate of interest that would actually be paid , while misrepresenting the resulting mortgage-backed securities to investors . if these charges are true , bank executives involved may fear that civil lawsuits will uncover evidence that might have been tried in criminal prosecution . but , thanks to the efforts of new york state attorney general eric schneiderman and others , serious discussions have begun in the united states about an out-dated court mortgage settlements among state attorney general attorney general eric schneiderman , and others . talks among state officials , the obama administration , and the banks are currently focusing on reported abuses in servicing mortgages , foreclosing in homes , and evicting their residents .
“ beyond our rivers and down highways and along myriad jungle paths , ” east pakistan ’s population continues to hemorrhage into india : an endless unorganized flow of refugees with a few tin kettles , cardboard boxes , and ragged clothes made up their heads , carry their sick children and their old . they pad along barefooted , with the mud sucking to their heels in wet ’s components . they are silent , other than a child whimpering now and then , but their faces tell a story . others have cholera ; and when they die by a roadside there , nobody can bury them . many get sick and cover the sores , and so on .
now the global spotlight is turning to france and its looming presidential election . charges of currency manipulation and the threats of protectionist measures have intensified . at stake is the sputtering franco-german engine , which has fueled european integration , leaving german chancellor angela merkel at the center of the postwar world multilateral system . with the uk giving the world free trade in the 1940s left it to go it alone , the old atlantic charter allies are placing national sovereignty ahead of global public goods . a victory for le pen in early may would spell the end of the eu , leaving german chancellor angela merkel as the final pillar of a crumbling world order .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . new york – when i was a bright-eyed eighth grader in my native sri lanka – i could n’t wait for my first gender-education class . in our early teens , my classmates , and i have been as curious as we have been clueless about sex and sexuality . yet , instead of receiving reliable answers to pressing questions about our bodies , interactions , and sexuality , we were simply being turned on a book call to read a specific chapter and leave to figure things out on our own . millions of young people worldwide have a similar experience , often with serious adverse consequences .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . whether or not there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present , for many years to come . “ with revolution , ” let us take it rather than succumbing to it , the ” otto von bismarck once said .
four decades after the nixon shock , ” ” ” no one disputes that china has benefited enormously today , the impoverished and autarkic country that nixon visited is history . global reintegration has transformed china into an economic powerhouse . it is the world ’s largest volume exporter in volume terms and is the world ’s second-largest economy . china ’s presence is being felt all over the world , from coasts in africa to apple stores in the united states . as the us reflects china ’s spectacular progress since 1972 , it is also an opportune time to consider how china continues to fall short of overcoming systemic impediments to its long-term success .
how much the chinese economy will slow is an open question ; but , given the intrinsic contradiction between an ever-more centralized party-led political system and the need for a more decentralized consumer-led economic system , long-term growth could go down quite dramatically . china is already the dominant global exporter , and there is neither the market nor the political tolerance to allow it to sustain its forward pace of export-led expansion . a significant chinese slowdown may already be unfolding . us president donald trump ’s trade war has rattled confidence , but that only downward shove to an economy that was already slowing because it is transforming itself from export – and investment-led growth into more sustainable domestic consumption-led consumption-led growth . unfortunately , the possibility of avoiding a shift to consumer-led growth and continuing to promote us exports and real-estate investment is not appealing , either .
a second arab human development report , issued in 2003 , highlights the close relationship between the arab world ’s educational shortcomings and its lack of democracy . a well-educated citizenry is also essential if the young men and women are to acquire the skills they need to perform the kinds of jobs that are created today ’s global and competitive global imperatives . the arab world faces severe difficulties that can be met only with more flexible , democratic political systems . a democracy demands an informed citizenry that can question its government . alas , instead of making progress , what we see constitutes a cycle of inadequate educational opportunity resulting from a lack of economic opportunity .
with the kurds – a majority of them civilians – fleeing turkish bombs , the un security council remained typically silent , while the europeans denounced everything and all involved . absent any coherent policy , the conditions were ripe for a crisis . as foreign-policy disasters move , this was one for its record books . yet the seeds for this larger conflagration have been sown long before the supposedly infamous trump-erdoğan call . president recep tayyip erdoğan threatened to devastate turkey ’s economy if it did both he enabled it to do so .
but a <UNK> ter-money program , a fanciful idea when milton friedman proposed it in 1969 , would also represent a radical departure for policymakers , requiring an extraordinary departure for citizen and investor perception , trust , and solid governance structures . it is well documented that europe and the united states have under-invested in infrastructure . a less risky , time-tested route to stimulating demand would yield a substantial increase in government-financed infrastructure investment . from a macroeconomic perspective , investing in infrastructure is an “ twofer ” ; it boosts productivity and competitiveness in the long run and – where unused capacity is unused , boosts demand , output , and employment with significant multiplier effects in the short run . and such an approach would cement the notion that central-bank policies are “ the only game in town , ” ” ” ” disregarding elected government leaders ’ responsibility for the pro-growth policies and the fiscal choices that they control .
and , if all of this were not bad enough , india ’s leadership seems unable to recognize the challenges that the railway present . in a country where railway passengers can not even expect a clean toilet , let alone an on-line arrival , prime minister narendra modi has spoken out about the introducing bullet trains , the latest in a string of irrationally grandiose aspirations . with the government losing $ 4.5 billion each year by subsidizing travelers fares there , it has little money to spend on upgrading infrastructure , improving safety standards , or devastating trains . as a result , railways are running out of money before they flee plans . in the past 30 years , just 317 of the 676 government-sanctioned projects of parliament have ended , and it is hard to imagine how railways will acquire the estimated $ 30 billion needed to complete the remaining 359 projects .
cities , for their part , often lack the information and resources needed to develop and implement effective policies . in fact , there is a deep divide between left-leaning “ blue ” cities and right-leaning ones in the red ” states , where many are located . and there are the many ways state governments can thwart progressive federalism at the municipal level . under federalism , whether through cooperative or “ uncooperative ” power is often assumed to mean that state and local governments pursue the same objectives . a series of organizations have now emerged to boost city governments ’ policy-making capacity including michael bloomberg ’s government-led innovation program , fuse corps , results for america , social finance , third-party capital partners , and usafacts .
the us needs to look beyond these figures to determine who truly is responsible for fomenting a political climate in which blatant lies and explicit racism and bigotry have entered the mainstream of public discourse . only by identifying the sources of the odious virus now afflicting our democracies can we take practical steps to defuse them . let ’s start with the patient zero ” in this political plague : rupert murdoch . for decades , this impresario of the right-wing political-entertainment complex coarsened politics in the uk and the us , not to mention his indigenous , australia , for profit and political clout . murdoch ’s newspapers and television networks might have patented the recipe for angering , dog-whistle politics that fueled trump ’s rise and the brexit vote .